
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 18, Issue 2, pages 125-217. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:18+issue:2+year:1922&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
                    
                        Crawford County
                    
                
            By H. H. PLEASANT, A. M.
            
               
                        Crawford county
                    , one of the smallest and poorest counties of Indiana, lies nestled
                    among the hills of southern Indiana. The territory out of which the county was
                    formed originally belonged to 
                  Harrison, Orange
                and 
                        Perry
                    . The General Assembly of Indiana enacted a law during the session
                    of 1817-1818 which provided for the new county. Governor Jonathan Jennings
                    signed the bill on January 29, 1818. Much credit is due Senator Dennis
                    Pennington of 
                        Harrison county
                    , who introduced several petitions sent to him by Martin H. Tucker
                    and other citizens praying for the formation of a new county. The bill was
                    introduced January 1, 1818 and passed January 5, 1818.1
            
            The boundaries of the county were not definitely established until 1831, since
                    when it has had the following: Beginning at Big Blue river
                    and following the river with its meandering until it reaches the line dividing
                    section 26 from section 27 in township three south, range two east, thence north
                    along that line till it intersects the river, thence following the river to the 
                        Washington county
                     line, thence west to the 
                        Orange county
                     line, thence south two miles, thence west twenty miles, thence
                    south nine miles, thence east six miles, thence south four miles, thence east
                    six miles, thence south to the Ohio river, thence following
                    the river and its meanderings to the mouth of Big Blue
                        river.2
            
            
               
                  1
                        Senate Journal 1817-1818, pages 74, 81, 84, 88, 90 and
                        196.
               
                  2
                  Laws of 1837, 239. This boundary
                        was fixed by law February 10 1831.
            
            
            On different occasions citizens of 
                        Perry
                     and 
                        Harrison
                     counties petitioned the General Assembly to be allowed to unite
                    certain parts of these counties to 
                        Crawford
                    , but most of the petitions have been rejected.3
            
            
               
                        Crawford county
                     was named in honor of William H. Crawford of 
                        Georgia
                    , cabinet officer and politician, who was a candidate for the
                    presidency in 1824. The county contains about 300 square miles. When it was
                    organized in 1818 the land was heavily forested. There were not much more than
                    two acres of swamp land in the whole county. The uplands were covered with oak,
                    hickory, gum, beech, poplar and walnut while the creek bottoms were covered with
                    sugar, elm, and sycamore. As a hunting-ground the county was not surpassed by
                    any in the state, while the streams of Big Blue, Little Blue, Turkey Fork, and
                    West Fork were the very best for fishing. The White Sulphur well at 
                        Sulphur
                    , Indiana, is unsurpassed by any spring of mineral water in the
                    country. The Marengb and Wyandotte caves are considered by some the most
                    beautiful in the world.
            When the county was organized in 1818 many settlers had already located in it.
                    Just how many squatters were in 
                        Crawford county
                     then one cannot say now but there must have been a large number. In
                    wandering through the woods, now, one occasionally finds a pile of stones and
                    the evidence of some early home. Many old fruit trees, some still living and
                    others dead, are found scattered here and' there in the forests. This
                    indicates that the spot of land was at one time the seat of some
                    squatter's home. The five original townships into which the county was
                    first divided were 
                  Jennings, Ohio
               , Sterling, Patoka, and
                    Whiskey Run.
            
               
                        Jennings
                     was named after Governor Jennings, 
                        Ohio
                     lies on the Ohio river from which it takes its
                    name, Sterling was named, no doubt, after Mount Sterling, a city in
                            
                  Montgomery county, Kentucky
               , from which many of
                    the settlers came, Patoka derives its name from the Patoka
                    river which runs near the township. There is an Indian legend
                    connected with the name Whiskey Run. The story goes that down on the stream one
                    day an Indian named "Whiskey" killed a man named
                    "Run" who had a jug of whiskey with him. Then he 
                  
                     3
                            House Journal 1821, 198; 1834, 94, 173, 327,
                        584.
               
                     ran away with Run's whiskey. So
                    the pioneers generally spoke of that stream as Whiskey Run. One may take the
                    legend for what it is worth.4
            
            After the original organization of the county four new townships were formed. The
                    boundaries of the old townships were changed too. In September, 1827, a large
                    tract of land was transferred from 
                        Perry county
                    
               5 to 
                        Crawford county
                     out of which a new township called 
                        Union
                     was made. Liberty township was formed out of territory taken from
                    Sterling and Whiskey Run in December, 1842. 
                        Boone
                     township was carved out of 
                        Ohio
                     township on March 7, 1848. It was named after the Boones, one of
                    whom is buried on the hill near the town of Alton. The last township organized
                    was 
                        Johnson
                    . This was formed about 1864.6 Andrew Johnson
                    had been a war Democrat and a stanch Union man and was candidate for the
                    vice-presidency in 1864. So the people named the township 
                        Johnson
                    .7
            
            The first county seat was named Mount Sterling probably after Mount Sterling, 
                        Kentucky
                    , from which several of the settlers came. The town was laid out in
                    section 33, township two south, range one east. This site is about four miles
                    southeast of the present town of English. The site of the town was a high hill,
                    hence the meaning of the word "Mount." Birney Labruk made the
                    plat of the town.8 Thomas W. Aubrey, who was probably the
                    first justice of peace in the county states that Birney Labruk came before him
                    January 25, 1818, and acknowledged that plat to be the true plat of Mount
                    Sterling. Brice Patrick, who was the county agent, brought the plat to the
                    recorder's office and William Samuels recorded it November 11, 1818,
                    the drawing of which one may see in the first book in the recorder's
                    office on pages 2 and 3. A copy of the plat is submitted in the present writing.
            The town was located on the northeast quarter of section 33. The streets ran
                    north and south and east and west. The streets running north and south were
                    Carr, Biddle, Dock, Samuel, Hall, and Totton. They were sixty-five feet wide.
                        
                  
                     4 Legend given by J. M. Johnson of Marengo, Ind.
                  
                     5
                            Laws of 1827. Commissioner's records Sept. 3,
                            1827.
                  
                     6 Commissioner's records, Book 3.
                  
                     7 State Supt. Report 1861, under 
                                Crawford county
                            .
                  
                     8 Recorder's Book 1, pages 3-4.
               
                     Those streets running east and west were
                    Main, Market, and Water9 streets. Only a few houses were
                    ever built in Mount Sterling. The county clerk's records show that
                    James Brasher lived there and at his home the August and December terms of court
                    were held in 1818. A few old apple trees of the Horse apple variety were still
                    standing in 1900. In that year Henry Batman cleaned up and cultivated the old
                    field which had grown up in brambles years ago. He said the old apple trees were
                    still living after about 82 years.10
            
            One reason why the town never grew was the scarcity of water. It was situated on
                    a level plateau on the top of a very high hill where water could not be easily
                    obtained. After the county seat was moved to 
                        Fredonia
                     a law was enacted forbidding it "to be located in any
                    other place unless a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome water was
                        available."11
            
            Henry Green bought land, August 1, 1812, located in section 34, township 2 south,
                    range 2 east.12 Judge Green, who was born in 
                        Ireland
                    , was honored by being elected judge of 
                        Crawford county
                    . When Davis Floyd visited 
                        Crawford county
                     in 1818 to organize the first court Judge Green and James Glenn
                    were present to help him. These men were associate justices at the trial of
                    Ouley which will be described later. Green was elected to represent 
                        Crawford county
                     in the General Assembly of Indiana in 1821.13
                    He introduced petitions sent to him by James Glenn and others praying that a
                    commission be appointed to relocate the county seat of 
                        Crawford county
                    . These petitions were referred to a select committee composed of
                    Green of 
                        Crawford county
                    , Charles Dewey of 
                        Orange
                    , Alexander Wallace of 
                        Orange
                    , and Moses Kirkpatrick of 
                        Floyd
                    . After the committee had duly considered the matter, Green reported
                    a bill providing for the appointment of a board of commissioners to select a
                    permanent site for a county seat. The bill having been passed the governor
                    signed it on December 22, 1821.14 Besides being a
                    legislator, he was appointed supervisor on the "Governor's
                        
                  
                     9 From old plat in Recorder's office.
                  
                     10 This information was furnished by J. B. Turley
                            of English who was born and reared near the old site.
                  
                     11
                            Indiana Laws of 1827, page 86.
                  
                     13 Sale Date Book Recorder's office.
                  
                     13 Information furnished partly by Squire Henry
                            Green, Marqngo, Ind.
                  
                     14
                            Indiana House Journal 1821, 96, 236, 265.
               
                     Old Trail" as far west as the
                    state road running from what is now Marengo to 
                        Leavenworth
                    .18 He was justice of peace for many years and
                    left a well earned reputation. The date of his death is unknown. His grandson,
                    Henry Green, of Marengo, still holds the office of justice of peace.
            No farms were sold in 1813 in what is now 
                        Crawford county
                    . The war was on then and immigration to the west was somewhat
                    retarded. In 1814 the following men bought farms: Alex Barnet, James Totten,
                    Henry Fullenwider, William McKay, Andrew and Joseph Kinkaid, Moses Smith and
                    Robert Fields.16 Of these, Henry Fullenwider is probably
                    best noted. He was a leading citizen around Alton for many years. His
                    descendants live in 
                        Boone
                     township and the Fullenwider school was named after him. He was one
                    of the trustees for district No. 4 when the congressional township 4 south,
                    range 1 east was divided up by the township school trustees in August, 1837.17 He lived to a ripe old age.
            The names of the men who bought farms in 1815 were John Hastings, John Green,
                    Robert and Isaac Sands. All these men proved good substantial citizens. Isaac
                    Sands was elected to represent 
                        Crawford county
                     in the General Assembly in 1836, and had been treasurer of the
                    county in 1830.18 Later he represented 
                        Crawford
                     and 
                        Orange
                     counties in the senate of the General Assembly in 1841 for a term
                    of three years.19
            
            In 1816 the following men came into the county and bought farms at the land
                    office at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    : Michael Harvey, James Mcintosh, Abram Sheckles, William Sharp, Eli
                    Wright, Riggs Pennington, George Repley and Robert Yates.
            Robert Yates was one of the most noted men' of the above group. Governor
                    Jennings appointed him county commissioner in 1818. He was selected by Sheriff
                    Weathers to be a member of the first grand jury ever held in 
                        Crawford county
                    . This grand jury which met at James Brasher's home in
                    Mount Sterling returned the indictment against James Ouley for 
                  
                     15 Commissioner's Records May 5, 1827.
                  
                     16 The date book contains the names of all land
                            buyers and dates of purchases. Recorder's office.
                  
                     17 Old synopsis book of 
                                Ohio
                             township, August 23, 1837.
                  
                     18 Commissioner's Records July 5, 1830.
                  
                     19 Indiana Senate Journal 1840,
                            page 1-5.
               
                     murder of Briley. Mr. Yates was also
                    supervisor on the county roads for several years.20
            
            The list of men who bought farms in 1817 was much longer. The following names
                    were the more important: George Jones, Henry Richards, Martin Scott, John
                    Flannery, John Sturgeon, John Sands, Robert Scott, James Green, Daniel Weathers,
                    and Archibald Allen. These men were hardy pioneers, and patriotic men.
            Martin Scotts' farm was located in 
                        Jennings
                     township about four miles north of 
                        Leavenworth
                     on the 
                        Old Salem
                     and 
                        Leavenworth
                     road. Many of his descendants live in the county at the present
                    writing. His grandson, 
                        Martin
                        Scott
                    , was elected trustee of 
                        Jennings
                     township in 1894 over John W. Collins on the Democratic ticket by a
                    majority of 7 votes. The original 
                        Martin
                        Scott
                     was one of the grand jurors from 
                        Jennings
                     township in 1818, when the murder case already referred to was
                    under consideration. He was also foreman of the grand jury of the December term
                    of court in 1818, held at Mount Sterling. He was road supervisor for many years
                    as well as lister of 
                        Jennings
                     township. Mr. Scott seems to have displayed at times a very bad
                    temper. The records of the county show that he was fined $1.00 in
                    May, 1829, for swearing.20 He was buried in the
                    "Old 
                        Scott
                     Graveyard" on what, at the present writing, is the Aniel
                    Froman farm.
            Daniel Weathers and his brother Richard were born in 
                        Wales
                    . They moved to 
                        Virginia
                     and from there to 
                        Tennessee
                    . Daniel Weathers lived in 
                        Tennessee
                     in 1800 and cast his vote for 
                        Adams
                     for the presidency that year, Richard, who lived at 
                        Knoxville
                    , cast his vote there for 
                        Adams
                    . While in 
                        Tennessee
                     Richard Weathers married a southern girl and later moved to
                    Indiana. Neither one of the brothers liked slavery. They crossed the
                        Ohio river at Tobacco Landing by means of a raft which
                    they pushed by a long pole. Richard settled just east of Milltown in 
                        Harrison county
                     on what is now known as the McCutcheon farm and lived in a three
                    sided log cabin.21
            
            
               
                  20 Recorder's office Book 1 or A, index.
               
                  20 Commissioner's records May 1829, Book
                        1824-1834.
               
                  21 Data given by Atty. J. H. Weathers, of Marengo,
                        Indiana, grandson of Richard Weathers.
            
            
            While hunting one day he crossed the Big Blue river near
                    where Milltown now stands and came over into 
                        Crawford county
                    . The scenery charmed him so much that he decided to re-move to 
                        Crawford county
                    . So he moved to where Marengo now is and squatted on what is now,
                    at this writing, Lyman Jones' farm. Here he worked for 25 cents a day
                    until he had $75.00 which he hoped to apply on a farm when he
                    purchased one. One night his purse fell through the puncheon floor and a cow
                    managed to get it some way. The money, most of which was paper, was chewed up by
                    the cow when Richard Weather found his purse the next morning. So Mr. Weathers
                    did not buy a farm then but sold out his claim and squatted again where Dave
                    Apple's farm now is. Meanwhile Daniel Weathers had been more fortunate
                    and had bought the farm mentioned above. Richard Weathers did not purchase a
                    farm till 1825.22
            
            After the law was passed providing for the formation of 
                        Crawford county
                     in 1818, Governor Jennings appointed Daniel Weathers sheriff and
                    issued him a commission Sept. 8, 1818. The bond of Sheriff Weathers is here
                    given: 
                        Know all men by these presents; that we, Daniel Weathers, James Barker,
                            John Smith, Robert Yates, Thomas Roberts, Riggs Pennington, and Richard
                            Weathers are held bound to Governor Jennings and his successors in
                            office for the sum of $5000.00 for which payment we jointly
                            anl severally promise to pay to Governor Jennings and his successors in
                            office, provided however that if Daniel Weathers discharges his duties
                            according to law, the above obligations are null and void.
                        For the state James Barker
                        William Samuels Recorder of 
                                Crawford
                             Co.
                        For Weathers
                        Daniel Weathers
                        Richard Weathers
                        Riggs Pennington
                        Thomas Roberts
                        Robert Yates
                        John Smith
                        James Barker23
                  
                    
            
            Daniel Weathers performed his duty faithfully till he was relieved from office
                    about 1822. These two Weathers reared families, several of whose sons served
                    their country in the Civil War. Major William V. Weathers, Captain Enoch 
                  
                     22 Most of the data given here was furnished by
                            Atty. James Weathers, a grandson of Richard Weathers, Marengo, Ind.
                  
                     23 Weathers' Bond–Book A page
                            5 Recorder's office.
               
                     Weathers, James M. Weathers, Andrew E.
                    Weathers and James Weathers have remarkable war records. When Captain Hines of
                    Bowling Green, 
                        Kentucky
                    , made his daring raid into 
                        Crawford county
                     in 1863, he talked with Captain Enoch Weathers at Marengo. Major
                    Weathers at the present writing is living at Marengo. Last but not least is
                    Attorney John Henry Weathers of 
                        New Albany
                    . He was the son of James Weathers who died at Marengo about 1918.
                    John H. Weathers practiced law at 
                        Leavenworth
                     many years. In 1896 he was nominated for judge of the circuit court
                    in the district composed of 
                        Harrison
                     and 
                        Crawford
                     counties. He lost the election by 52 votes. Both counties were
                    Democratic then and usually polled a Democratic majority of 800 votes.
            The names of the persons who bought farms in 
                        Crawford county
                     in 1818 were: Malachi Monk, George Wyman, Moses Smith, Thomas
                    Easley, George Wilks, Chas. Springer, Elisha Tadlock, Elisha Totten, Peter Funk,
                    Sam Westfall, Abram Wiseman, Cornelius Hall, John Lee, Jacob Conrad, Elizabeth
                    Wright and Peter Sonner.24
            
            Of the above named persons probably Cornelius Hall was the most noted man. He was
                    appointed county commissioner by Governor Jennings in 1818, and served the
                    county in that capacity. Mr. Hall was well read in law and at Ouley's
                    trial he was one of the judges. Sheriff Weathers chose him as grand juror in
                    1818 when the circuit court was organized and held the first session at Mount
                    Sterling. When Mr. Hall's term of office expired he became associate
                    justice of 
                        Crawford county
                    , an office which he held mahy years.
            Elisha Tadlock was the first seminary trustee of 
                        Crawford county
                    .25 When the law was enacted in 1818 which
                    provided for the office, Governor Jennings appointed him trustee. On December
                    18, 1821, he made a report to the General Assembly which showed that he had on
                    hands then $100.50 of seminary funds. He was elected to represent 
                        Crawford county
                     in the General Assembly in 182526 He was
                    overseer of the poor for many years in Whiskey Run township. At that time there
                    was no poor farm and the board of county 
                  
                     24 Old Sale date
                            book–Recorder's office
                  
                     25
                            Indiana House Journal 1821, 236.
                  
                     26
                            Indiana Journal 1825, 1-5.
               
                     commissioners generally selected some one
                    to look after the poor in each township. In 1825 this board allowed him
                    $37.50 for keeping Timothy Bennett for three months. Mr. Tadlock was
                    collector of the state revenues in 1827. In 1828 he was licensed to keep a
                    tavern at 
                        Leavenworth
                    .27
            
            Moses Smith bought a farm near where English is and there reared a family. His
                    son, Minor Smith, grew up in Sterling township and raised a family of several
                    children, two of whom were George C. Smith and James J. Smith. The Smiths have
                    always been good citizens and popular with the people. In 1914 George C. Smith
                    was elected trustee by the Republicans in Patoka township, the first Republican
                    trustee in that township for many years.
            Probably one of the most popular as well as one of the best men in the county. In
                    1916 he was elected treasurer by the Republicans over James M. Brown by 191
                    votes. Two years later he was re-elected by the Republicans oyer James Jones by
                    17 votes.28
            
            Malachi Monk was one of the earliest settlers of 
                        Crawford county
                    . He built a block' house near the town of Marengo on the
                    farm now owned by J. Ed Ross, county clerk of 
                        Crawford county
                     1918-1922. He served his county in various capacities. Was road
                    supervisor for several years. The date of his death is not known. His son,
                    Malachi Monk, junior, was elected auditor for two terms from 1868 to 1876.
            Abram Wiseman located in what is now 
                        Ohio
                     township. He and his brother, Jacob Wiseman, came from the East to 
                        Kentucky
                     and thence to Indiana. Several of their sons were in the Civil war,
                    among which one may mention George E., Philip, Abram, William and Henry. The
                    grandsons of the two pioneer Wisemans served in the Spanish-American war, while
                    in the World war a number of the Wisemans were overseas.
            The last name of which the writer has space to write is Peter Funk. The Funk
                    family has been prominent all through the history of the county. Solomon Funk
                    and John E. Funk were old supporters of the Republican party in 1860. John E.
                    Funk, who was elected county commissioner in 1894 helped 
                  
                     27 Commissioner's records Nov. 5, 1825.
                  
                     28 Data from the 
                        
                                    Crawford County
                                 Democrat.
               
                     to re-locate the new county seat of justice
                    at English in 1895, when that town was made the county seat by the courts.
                    Cadmus C. Funk, who was the grandson of Solomon Funk, was elected sheriff of the
                    county in 1912 over V. Byrum by a majority of 331 votes.29
                    When his term of office expired in 1914 he was re-elected for another term of
                    two years at the close of which term he engaged in business at English.
            The names of the men who bought farms in the county in 1819 were: John Roth,
                    Henry Richards, John Hughes, Henry Jones, John Sheckels, Jonathan Bird, William
                    Groves, and David Rice.
            The list of names of the men who bought farms in 1820 is as follows: Dave Miller,
                    John Sheckels, Sam Kemp, John Morgan, Joseph VanWinkle, Addison Williams, and
                    Reuben Wright. Sam Kemp's farm was located two miles west of 
                        Fredonia
                     in section 7, town 4 south, range 1 east. Mr. Kemp's son
                    John was a noted man of the county during the Civil war. He was a member of the
                    49th Indiana volunteers and was wounded several times.30 He
                    lived to be a very old man and died near 
                        Leavenworth
                    . Sam Kemp's grandson, Clay Kemp, lives at 
                        Alton
                     at the time of the present writing.
            Much can be said about Addison Williams whose rarm was located in section 14,
                    town 3 south, range 1 east. He platted a town which he called 
                        New Haven
                     and had the plat recorded at the county seat in 
                        Fredonia
                    . No one bought the town lots and the town never grew. He lived on
                    his farm many years and was justice of peace for some time. He was road
                    supervisor in 
                        Jennings
                     township for many years.31 His grave may be
                    seen today on the old farm near the present town of Magnolia. In those days men
                    had their own local cemeteries, many of which may still be seen scattered over
                    the county. Addison Williams, being disappointed because his first town, 
                        New Haven
                    , never grew, platted another town which he named Magnolia. The plat
                    was recorded on July 4, 1838.32 This town which was situated
                    about four miles northwest of 
                        Leavenworth
                    , was located in section 22, town 3 south, range 1 east. Many town
                    lots were sold, a large mill 
                  
                     29 County papers for vote.
                  
                     30 See Terrell's
                            Reports, Regiment 49.
                  
                     31 County. Recorder's old record. See A.
                            Williams.
                  
                     32 Deed Book 2, Page 351.
               
                     was built, and a still house constructed.
                    The old buhrstones may still be seen where his mill was built. Magnolia never
                    grew to any considerable size. Today it has several houses, a store, and a
                    postoffice.
            In 1821 these men bought farms: James Brown, James McMartin, Robert Samuels,
                    Richard White, Hamilton
                    McKee,———————Gwartney,
                    Ed Sturgeon, William Riley, Lawrence Biers, John Vanmeter, Archibold Stone, John
                    Con-dra, Mason Jenkins, Ab. Wiseman, B. Bogard, Joel Lyons, Richard White, James
                    Mansfield, Jackson Nicholson, James Totten, Abram Bird, John Goldman, David
                    Lowe, Burton Parr, Abram Sheckels, and George Wilks.
            The Mansfield family lived at 
                        Leavenworth
                     for a long time. James M. Mansfield who was the son of James
                    Mansfield was a soldier in the Civil war. He was elected clerk of 
                        Crawford county
                     in 1866 and held the office one term. The school at 
                        Mansfield
                     was named after him.
            Abram Sheckels bought a farm in town 4 south, range 1 east. Many of his great
                    grandchildren still live in 
                        Boone
                     township at the present writing. He is the grandfather of Oliver
                    Morton Sheckels, superintendent of the city schools at Brownstown.
            Burton Parr became a very useful citizen of the county. One of his descendants,
                    E. E. Parr, was elected trustee of 
                        Boone
                     township in 1914. At the close of his term of office he was
                    re-elected. John Parr, another one of his relatives, was elected trustee of 
                        Boone
                     township in 1900.
            James Totten was appointed sheriff of 
                        Crawford county
                     in 1825. At that time the office of sheriff was very difficult to
                    fill. Many of his descendants live in the county at the present writing.33
            
            These men bought farms in 1822: Julius Woodford, Peter Frakes, David Brown,
                    Obadiah Childs, Jacob Conrad, Wilson Scott, Sam McMahon, R. S. Thorn, Reuben T.
                    Thorn, Thomas Conon, and Ebeneezer E. Morgan.
            This list has the names of the Thorn brothers: Reuben T. and Robert S. Something
                    will be said about the Thorn brothers in the chapter on 
                        Fredonia
                    .
            
               
                  33 Commissioners Records, May 1825.
            
            
            Julius Woodford for many years was one of the leading citizens of 
                        Crawford county
                    . He was elected county commissioner from the second district in
                    1833 to succeed Zebulum Leavenworth.34 He was one of the
                    first merchants of 
                        Leavenworth
                    . In 1825 he was granted a license to sell foreign merchandise in
                    the town. He sold the lot of ground to the 
                        Crawford county
                     seminary trustees in 1835 on which the old seminary was built.
            E. E. Morgan held the office of county recorder from 1825 till 1846.
            In 1823 there were two men who bought farms: John Austin and William Patton.
            The list in 1824 was: John R. Wyman, Henry Rhodes, David Wilbur, Edward Riddings.
            For 1825 these men bought land: David Beals, Richard Weathers, John Weathers,
                    John Mahon, Robert Baldwin, Joseph Beals, Adam Denison, Walter Gresham, John
                    Funk, Will Stroud, Thomas Walker, James Totten.
            In this group there are several names about which mention should be made. Joseph
                    Beals was the grandfather of Stewart A. Beals who was elected county
                    superintendent in 1903. The latter held that office for 14 years, during which
                    he did more for the schools of 
                        Crawford county
                     than any superintendent who held the office before him. It was
                    through his efforts that the high schools at 
                        Leavenworth
                    , English, Marengo, and Milltown were commissioned. At the present
                    writing he is superintendent of the English high school.
            The list of those who bought farms in 1826 were: Henry Bray, Sam Scott, William
                    Good, R. T. Thorn, D. Gresham.
            1827: John Peckinpaugh, David Lane, Charles Springer, William Riley, David
                    Attleberry, Robert Milesat, Dudley Gresham, James Totten, Reuben T. Thorn,
                    William Bland, Francis Able, Thomas Parr, Milton Holcroft, O. Raymong, Julius
                    Woodford, Thomas Davidson, Samuel Bird, W. P. Thompson, Edward Butler, William
                    Taylor, James Stuart, Isaiah Bullington.
            No farms were sold in 1828. The list for 1829 has these names: John Leggett, J.
                    H. Mills, Seth and Z. Leavenworth, 
                  
                     34 Commissioners Records, Sept. 1833.
               
                     Wood Proctor, Librim Frisbie, James Totten,
                    John Lynch, and Thomas Davidson.
            In 1830 these men bought farms: Chas. Bloomfield, Elias Chenoweth, Joseph Van
                    Winkle, Abram D. Tower and Isaac Funk.
            ORGANIZATION
                    OF
                    THE FIRST COURT
            
            The first session of the circuit court of 
                        Crawford county
                     convened at Mount Sterling, August 1, 1818. Hon. Davis Floyd, Judge
                    Green, and James Glenn composed the court. Since there was no courthouse in
                    Mount Sterling then, James Brasher let the judges use his new log house. This
                    house was too small to accommodate all of the jurors, hence they sat around on
                    logs in the yard.
            Sheriff Daniel Weathers was present and returned the names of the following men
                    for a grand jury: Cornelius Hall, Lazarus Stewart, Alex King, William Osborn,
                    James Lewis, Elias Davis, Elisha Potter, Alex Barnett, William Potter, Robert
                    Yates, Peter Peckinpaugh, William Scott, Reuben Laswell, Abraham Wiseman, George
                    Tutter, Martin Scott, John Sturgeon, Robert Sands, Isaac Lamp, Ed Gobin, and
                    Malachi Monk.1
            
            These men elected Cornelius Hall foreman. After due consideration the jury
                    returned a bill against James Ouley for murder in the first degree. The evidence
                    showed that Ouley had followed William Briley through the woods for some
                    distance and had then shot him in the back about where his suspenders crossed.
            The ball came out in his neck making a wound about 8 inches deep. Briley died
                    almost instantly and Ouley escaped with his horse and about 75 cents in money.
            Briley lived near the present town of English. He had left home with a sack of
                    wool and was going to Corydon to get the wool carded. He was traveling on the
                    Governor's Old Trail which ran from Corydon to 
                        Vincennes
                    . The exact spot where the shooting occurred cannot now be located.
                    It happened near the top of White Oak hill in what was then
                    Whiskey Run township.2
            
            
               
                  1 Old Court Records in the Clerk's Office,
                        Book 1, English, Indiana.
               
                  2 This information was furnished by Attorney James H.
                        Weathers of Marengo.
            
            
            This act occurred July 1, 1818. Some men happened by and found Briley. They
                    started to carry him to his cabin over on Dog creek. After they had gone about
                    two miles they decided that they would bury him there. So a grave was dug and
                    the body was buried just as the men had found it. Briley had no person living
                    with him and Ouley might have escaped if he had hidden the body.
            The news spread rapidly and the whole community was aroused. The only evidence
                    then against Ouley was that he had disappeared from home that same day on which
                    the man Briley was killed and that some woman had seen him following Briley
                    through the woods.
            Jonathan Chambers and Zedekiah Lindley who were prominent men volunteered to
                    catch Ouley. These men had no warrant for his arrest but they were experts in
                    catching horse thieves and felt sure that they could catch Ouley if he could be
                    found anywhere.' So they traveled all over southern Indiana but did not
                    find him. They then crossed the Ohio river near Mauckport
                    and began hunting for him in 
                  Meade
                        county, Kentucky
               . After a two weeks' tramp they came to
                    the town of Brandenburg and decided to give up the hunt and let him go. While
                    stopping at the tavern one day they saw men hauling cord wood into town. From
                    these men they learned that there was a wood cutter out in the forest who had
                    come there from Corydon a short time before. That night Chambers and Lindley
                    crept up and caught Ouley in his cabin. They brought him back to the old block
                    house near Marengo and chained him to the logs in the house and guarded him day
                    and night till the trial came off on the first day of August.
            The bill returned by the grand jury read: 
                        James Ouley late of 
                                Crawford county
                            , a yeoman not having the fear of God before his eyes, but
                            moved and seduced by the spirit of the Devil on July 1, 1818, with force
                            and arms in Whiskey Run township in and upon William Briley in the peace
                            of God then and there being wilful and of malice a fore thought did make
                            and against James Ouley with a certain rifle gun of the value of
                            $10 loaded with gun powder and a certain leaden bullet with
                            which gun the said Ouley did shoot William Briley in the back and the
                            ball came out in his neck making a wound about 8 inches deep from which
                            wound Briley died almost instantly.3
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  3 Old Records in the Clerk's Office, Book
                    1.
            
            
            The trial began at once. Ouley pleaded not guilty and demanded that the county
                    furnish him an attorney. The court appointed Henry Stephens and Harbin Moore to
                    defend while William Thompson was appointed prosecuting attorney for that
                    session of the court.
            Daniel Weathers, the sheriff, had a large number of men present from which these
                    men were selected for a petit jury: Elisha Lane, Constance Williams, Marcus
                    Troelock, Joseph Beals, Andrew Troelock, David Beals, John Goldman, James
                    Richie, William May, George Peckinpaugh, Thomas W. Cummins, and Robert Grimes.
                    Constance Williams was selected foreman of the jury.
            The trial was conducted out of doors in the woodyard. The jurors who were among
                    the best men in the county were sworn to hear the evidence and to decide the
                    case. After all the evidence was in and the court had instructed the jurors, the
                    jury retired to consider the evidence. After some time the jury returned a
                    verdict of guilty and placed his sentence at death.
            The counsel for defense asked for a new trial on these grounds: 1. That the
                    verdict was contrary to the etate law; 2. That the evidence was not sufficient;
                    3. The conduct of the jurors was not proper; 4. That outsiders talked to the
                    jurors during the trial; 5. That Elisha Lane had expressed his opinion before
                    the trial began; 6. That one of the jurors was too much indisposed to pay the
                    proper amount of attention that such a case demanded. The juror in question was
                    said to have been asleep.
            The court not being fully advised adjourned till the next day when it refused the
                    defendant a new trial and asked him if he had any further reason why sentence of
                    death should not be passed upon him. He asked the court to arrest the judgment
                    of the jurors on these grounds: 1. That he was a wheelright made the evidence
                    uncertain; 2. That the bill did not have the name of the state or county in
                        it.4
            
            The court overruled the argument and passed this sentence upon him: 
                  
                     4 All the statements here are taken from the
                            cleric's records at the court house in English, Indiana.
               
                    
                    
                        That he should be kept in the old block house in the custody of the
                            sheriff till October 1, 1818, when he should be taken out on the same
                            road pr on what ever new road might be laid out by that time in one half
                            mile of Old Mount Sterling, between the hours 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. and
                            hanged by the neck till dead.
                    
            
            Sheriff Weathers took the prisoner back to the block house and chained him to the
                    logs. Men kept guard over him day and night. Yet he attempted to gnaw out. Years
                    afterwards when the block house was torn down one could see the place where he
                    had gnawed with his teeth on the logs of the block house.5
            
            Cornelius Hall who was a carpenter, volunteered to make the casket for Ouley. On
                    the day of execution the coffin was put into a wagon and Ouley was chained and
                    hauled back to Mount Sterling and hanged. He was buried in the old field near
                    the site of the hanging. His grave was marked for a long time but now no trace
                    of it can be found. Henry Batman who cleared the old field in 1900 said that he
                    found a spot of clay near the road about three feet by six and thought that must
                    have been the dirt which was thrown up from the grave.6
            
            There was not much direct evidence against Ouley in the case but the jury was
                    sure that he was guilty. So they wanted to make an example of him for the rest
                    of the outlaws who lived in the county.
            After the county seat was moved to 
                        Leavenworth
                     another affair occurred near Milltown, Indiana, for which the
                    offending culprit was hanged at 
                        Leavenworth
                    . James Fields, who was under the influence of alcohol, came home
                    one night and ordered his mother to get up and get his supper. She did not arise
                    as quickly as her son thought that she should and he drew a revolver and shot
                    his mother through the thigh. This occurred on June 7, 1846. Mrs. Field lived
                    till June 10th and died. The jury returned an indictment against Fields and the
                    sheriff arrested him and lodged him in jail.7
            
            The grand jury returned a bill against Fields which reads as follows: 
                  
                     5 Information by Attorney James H. Weathers who
                            was the grandson of Richard Weathers, deputy eheriff then.
                  
                     6 Information by James Turley of English, Indiana.
                  
                     7 County Clerk's Records for 1846.
               
            
            
            
                    James G. Fields, late of 
                            Crawford county
                        , not having the fear of God before his eyes but moved by the
                        spirit of the Devil did with force and with a certain revolver worth about
                        $1 loaded with gun powder and a ball; to wit, against one,
                        Susanah Fields in the peace of God did shoot with the said revolver and
                        inflicted a wound from which the said Susanah Fields died on the tenth of
                        June at his home near Milltown, Indiana.
                
            Fields pleaded that he was not guilty in the sense in which the grand jury had
                    indicted him. The following men were selected for a jury: A. B. Tower, James
                    Vanwinkle, Sam McMahan, Walker Main, Swango Hadden, William Armstrong, Marmaduke
                    McCarney, James L. Temple, James G. Sloan, Chas. Comcien, Nincom Haskens, and
                    Gabriel Williams. After all the evidence was in and the matter was discussed the
                    jury retired to consider the case but could not agree. So the jury was
                    discharged on November 11, 1846. A new jury which was composed of these men was
                    empaneled: George Jones, Oliver Hannon, John Jones, Greenberry Roberts, John
                    Goldman, N. C. Peckinpaugh, Tich Warner, James D. Jones, William Dean, Andrew
                    Biers, Elias O'Bannon, John K. Tyler. This jury found Fields guilty of
                    murder in the first degree and he was sentenced to death.8
            
            Judge John Lockhart called Fields before him and ordered him to be kept in the
                    county jail at 
                        Leavenworth
                     until December 18, 1846. On the 18th he was to be taken out and
                    hanged by the neck till dead.
            The sheriff built the gallows on the east side of Poison creek not far from where
                    the old carding machine stood. On the day of the execution the prisoner was put
                    on a wagon and hauled out to the gallows. Six men with guns walked before the
                    wagon. Sheriff Samuel Clark had taken care to see that no confusion of any kind
                    occurred or any attempt to rescue the prisoner. Clark was so excited on this
                    occasion that when everything was ready he struck at the rope which held the
                    trap door on which he had put Fields and missed the rope. The second time he cut
                    the rope and let the prisoner fall. The rope broke but several men sprang
                    forward and helped the sheriff hold up the prisoner till the sheriff tied the
                    rope. Then he was left swinging till he was dead.
            
               
                  8 All the data here were taken from the
                        clerk's records at the court house at English's,
                    Indiana.
            
            
            The body was buried at the foot of the gallows. Thousands of men and women were
                    present on that occasion. The writer's father came from near Alton to
                    see the hanging. Old men said that the opposite hill was covered with men since
                    it afforded a good view.
            FREDONIA
            
            While Judge Floyd was holding the first session of the circuit court in 
                        Crawford county
                     and the good citizens at Mount Sterling were hanging Ouley, a new
                    town was laid out on the banks of the Ohio river by Allen
                    D. Thorn and Robert S. Thorn. These men had moved from 
                        Virginia
                     to Indiana and had finally located in 
                        Crawford county
                    . Allen D. Thorn made a plat of the town and filed it in the
                    recorder's office at 
                        Corydon
                    , Indiana, before the county seat was located at Mount Sterling.
                    William Samuels stated that Allen D. Thorn came before him personally and
                    acknowledged the plat to be the true plat of 
                        Fredonia
                    . The indenture was made June 22, 1818.1
            
            The site where the town was laid out was one of the most picturesque of all river
                    towns. At this point the Ohio river makes a great bend in
                    the shape of an ox-bow or a horse-shoe. Hence the bend was called the horse-shoe
                    bend. The river sweeps far northward into Indiana and then glides away gently to
                    the southward. Standing on the high bluff one can see as far up the river as 
                        Leavenworth
                     and down the river to Schooner Point. The tongue of land on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side is about three miles across in one place and probably
                    twenty-five miles around.
            From Indian Hollow to Schooner Point–a distance of 5
                    miles–the hill on the Indiana side is so precipitous that one cannot
                    build a road from the top of the bluff to the river except at 
                        Fredonia
                     where a small creek runs down to tne river, up which was built a
                    wagon road over which freight could be hauled. This bluff is about 500 feet
                    high, many parts of which are almost perpendicular. On this high plateau Allen
                    D. Thorn and Robert S. Thom laid out the site for the town. The site, as already
                    stated, commanded a view 
                  
                     1 Deed Book: Pages 1, 2, 85, recorder's
                            office.
               
                     of the Ohio river for
                    many miles so that hostile Indians could not approach during the day without
                    being seen by the people of the town. The level land extended back from the
                    river bluff about one-half mile before the land became rough and hilly and
                    descended to Little Blue river on the west about two miles
                    away. The writer has copied a plat of the town and inserted it here facing this
                        page.2
            
            At that time any man owning land and wishing to sell could lay out a town plat,
                    give the town some name and advertise the lots for sale. He had the plat
                    recorded in the county recorder's office. If many lots were sold a town
                    might grow up. In that case he could get more for his land than he could get if
                    he sold outright. Many men bought lots at 
                        Fredonia
                     and a town was soon started on that high hill. Plenty of good water
                    was found by digging several deep wells. Thorn's well was about 6 feet
                    in diameter and 86 feet deep. It stands full of good water the year around. The
                    well was walled from bottom to top, in most places with dressed stone. This
                    indicates that much work must have been done in its construction. The other two
                    wells were also very deep.
            One serious objection to the town of Mount Sterling was the absence of good
                    water. Creek water could not be used because of the danger from its impurity.
                    After the county seat was moved from Mount Sterling to 
                        Fredonia
                     the General Assembly of the state of Indiana enacted a law
                    providing that the county seat must not be moved again under any condition
                    unless a good supply of drinking water was available.3
            
            Allen D. Thorn had a rich brother named Reuben T. Thom. At that time he was a
                    large land owner of the county. Of this land Allen D. Thom owned 80 acres, while
                    his brother owned the rest which amounted to about 1468 acres. Reuben Thom as
                    far as can be known never came to the county but remained at his home in
                            
                  Fredericksburg, Virginia
               . Reuben Thom was
                    very desirous of having the seat of justice located at 
                        Fredonia
                    . 
                        Fredonia
                     had far outgrown Mount Sterling which at the best never had many
                    houses. He felt sure that he could sell his 
                  
                     2 Data given by an old citizen of the town.
                  
                     3 Indiana State Laws for 1827,
                            86.
               
                     land better if the seat of justice was
                    located at 
                        Fredonia
                    . Hence he offered to give a tract of land on which a courthouse
                    might be built and a jail located. At that time no one had the right to move the
                    seat of justice from Mount Sterling. So James Glenn, who was a prominent citizen
                    of the county and an associate justice, sent a petition to Henry Green, who
                    represented the county in the General Assembly at 
                        Corydon
                    , praying that the seat of justice be moved and that a committee be
                    appointed to locate a new seat. This petition being read November 21, 1821, was
                    referred to a select committee of which Green of 
                  Crawford county, Tipton
                of 
                        Perry county
                    , Dewey and Wallace of 
                        Orange county
                    , and Kirkpatrick of 
                        Floyd county
                    , were members with permission to report by bill or otherwise. The
                    committee reported out a bill on November 30th which came up in the house on
                    December 2d and 7th and was passed Thursday, December 15, 1821. In the meanwhile
                    many petitions were sent to the General Assembly praying that the bill be
                    passed. For this reason one can say that the people in general approved of the
                    change of the county seat. After a few days in the committee the senate passed
                    the bill and the governor signed it. This provided that Sam Connor of 
                        Perry county
                    , Henry Thornton of 
                        Scott
                    , Stephens Rainey of Clark, Isaac Stewart of 
                        Floyd
                    , and Robert Evans of 
                        Vanderburgh
                     should be commissioners whose duty it was to meet at the courthouse
                    in Mount Sterling on March 1, 1822, and after due examination to relocate the
                    seat of justice if the committee thought that it was beneficial to the people of
                    the county. The committee was to value the improvements made on the lots at
                    Mount Sterling and the cost of digging the public well. The state was to
                    compensate the men who had bought the lots in Mount Sterling up to the value of
                    their improvements.5
            
            The county agent was empowered to examine the courthouse at 
                        Fredonia
                     and if he found it better than the one at Mount Sterling he should
                    notify the commissioners who would authorize the county officers to move their
                    books to the new location which the committee had chosen, or would choose if it
                    had not done so yet. If the committee relocated the seat 
                  
                     4 Indiana House Journal, pages:
                            43, 44, 96, 105, 171, 200. House Journal for the year
                            of 1821.
               
                     of justice the sheriff was authorized to
                    inform the county commissioners where the new location was and when they should
                        meet.5
            
            The committee met at Mount Sterling and after due consideration decided to accept
                    Mr. Thorn's generous offer. He had agreed to give a large tract of land
                    on which he would build the county a courthouse and a jail, all of which he was
                    to give to the county. The deed was duly made, as promised by Mr. Thorn, to the
                    county commissioners. The deed reads: 
                        This indenture was made the 12th day of November, 1822 between Reuben T.
                            Thorn of (
                        Fredericksburg, Virginia
                     , by his attorney, Allen D. Thorn,
                            on the first and Thomas Davis, Cornelius Hall, and Robert Yates, county
                            commissioners of 
                                Crawford county
                             on the second part and their successors in office. That the
                            said Reuben Thorn by his attorney, Allen D. Thorn, for and in
                            consideration of the county seat being permanently located at Predonia
                            receipt whereof is hereby granted acknowledged and bargained and sold
                            and hath granted to the county commissioners and their successors in
                            office for the use of the county this tract of land: Beginning at the
                            center of section 10, township 4 south, range 1 east, run south 91.5
                            poles, east 89.5 poles, to a certain white oak tree, north 91.5 poles,
                            then west 89.5 poles to the starting point, in all about, 50 acres.6
                  
                        The said commissioners to have and to hold said land with all its
                            appurtenances on the land.
                    
            
            Allen D. Thorn had this deed recorded December 15, 1822.
            The new courthouse which was a two-story brick, was about 39 feet long and 33
                    feet wide. The second story was used for a court room and the down stairs
                    provided rooms for the different county offices. Reuben Thorn's
                    contractors did a good piece of work in constructing the house which is still
                    standing. The upper story now has been cut lower and the ceiling of the first
                    story has been raised. The building is now used by the Methodists for a church.
                    The house has not been used for court purposes since 1843.
            The old jail which was rather small was a strong one. The house was built out of
                    hewn logs which were notched down well at the corners. Then the house was ceiled
                    by using hewn timbers about 10 inches wide and 4 inches thick. These timbers,
                    which were set vertically, were bolted to the logs. The floor and ceiling were
                    similarly constructed.
            
               
                  5 Indiana State Laws for 1821, 9-12.
               
                  6 See book 1, page 94, in the recorder's
                        office at English, Indiana.
            
            
            As far as known only one person ever escaped from that old jail until is was
                    condemned, about 1840. The man who escaped was accused of horse stealing. He
                    secured an iron rod of some kind and burned his way out. It must have taken him
                    a long time. After he was out the man escaped into 
                        Kentucky
                     before the officers secured him. After that man escaped the jail
                    was guarded of nights when there were prisoners in it waiting trial.7 When the board doing county business met the first time
                    after the man escaped they ordered E. E. Morgan to have a new jail door made.
                    This new door was to be made of hewn timbers, the first laid lengthwise, then
                    the second set of timbers cross-wise and bolted to the first ones. Then the
                    third set of timbers was put lengthwise and bolted to the first two sets. This
                    made a door which was about one foot thick. The board granted to Mr. Morgan for:
                    doing the work and hanging the door the sum of $20.8
            
            The location of the jail and courthouse is marked on the accompanying plot of the
                    town.
            The sheriff was not responsible for the prisoners in these early days. The board
                    doing county business generally appointed some man jailer and when the jail was
                    full with prisoners the jailer had several guards to help him keep them safe
                    till they were disposed of some way when court met. In 1827 Sam Clark, Ephraim
                    Conrad, Elias O'Bannon, Edward Martin and Richard Boyles were allowed
                    $2.50 each for helping guard the jail. Henry Conrad was appointed
                    jailer and pound master in 1831 and in 1837, respectively.9
            
            When the new courthouse was ready the citizens of Fre-donia went to Mount
                    Sterling and carried away the records. Local tradition says that the books were
                    carried away by force. The records were in 
                        Fredonia
                     and the first session of the court was held there on March 10,
                        1822.10 At that time the books were put into sacks and
                    carried on horses. If the records were carried away by force, it was only the
                    first time; they have been carried away from each of the later county seats by
                    force.
            
               
                  7 Information furnished the writer by Percy Allen,
                        great grandson of the jailer, Henry Conrad.
               
                  8 Commissioners records for 1S29, May 4th.
               
                  9 Commissioner's records for 1827, November.
               
                  10 Clerk's old records, Book one.
            
            
            The county officers at that time were: county commissioners, Thomas Davis,
                    Cornelius Hall and Robert Yates; county recorder, William Samuels; coroner,
                    William Campbell; the county treasurer was appointed each year by the board
                    doing county business. Daniel Weathers was the first sheriff and held the office
                    till about 1823, when Martin H. Tucker was appointed.
            Under the old constitution the county business in 
                        Crawford county
                     was done by a board composed of the justices of the peace from the
                    towns and the various townships. The county had a board of county commissioners
                    but they did not seem to have much business to perform for the county. The board
                    doing county business was composed of William Course, John Wood, Thomas Davis,
                    Samuel Farrows, Henry Wakefield and Allen D. Thom. They were known as
                        justices.11
            
            The board of justices held a meeting at the courthouse in 
                        Fredonia
                     in November, 1824, and contracted much business for the county. The
                    board appointed Seth M. Leavenworth and Edward Golden to lay out a road from 
                        Leavenworth
                     to intersect the Mount Sterling road near Jake Enlow's
                    farm. Archibald Sloan was appointed to view out a road from his farm to the farm
                    of Richard Weathers. William Dodd who was seminary trustee reported that he had
                    $255.25 of the seminary funds.
            When the board met in January, 1825, they appointed the following men
                    superintendents of the 16th sections of school land in the county: Allen D.
                    Thom, James Glenn, Peter Mc-Michel, James Mcintosh, Martin Scott, Archibald
                    Sloan and William Anderson. Robert S. Thom was appointed county treasurer for
                    the year 1825. Road supervisors were also appointed. Zebulum Leavenworth had
                    charge of the 
                        Leavenworth
                     and 
                        Salem
                     road as far as the 
                        Jennings
                     township line. Calburn had charge from Fredonai to the mouth of
                    Little Blue. William Harvey was supervisor on the 
                        Leavenworth
                     and Paoli road as far as the 
                        Jennings
                     township line. Allen D. Thom had charge of the road from 
                        Fredonia
                     to the 
                        Princeton
                     ford and the 
                        Perry county
                     line. From Cole's ford to Leavenworth William May was
                    appointed. Valentine Sauerheber 
                  
                     11 County Commissioners' Records for
                            November, 1824.
               
                     from 
                        Leavenworth
                     to 
                        Fredonia
                    . James Totten was appointed sheriff to succeed Martin H. Tucker who
                        resigned13 The board doing county business set the
                    following tax rates for the county for 1825: 
                  
                     First rate land tax per 100 acres
                     $1.25
                  
                  
                     Second rate land tax for 100 acres
                     $1.00
                  
               
                
            These prices were fixed in 1825 for the taverns: 
                  
                     Third rate land per 100 acres
                     $.75
                  
                  
                     On suits of clothes each
                     $.50
                  
                  
                     License to sell foreign goods
                     $10
                  
                  
                     Horses, mules, or donkeys
                     $3.75
                  
                  
                     Yoke of oxen over three years old
                     $.25
                  
                  
                     Brass clocks
                     $1.50
                  
                  
                     Silver watches
                     $.50
                  
                  
                     Ferries on the Ohio river
                     
                     $5.00
                  
                  
                     Ferries on Big Blue river
                     
                     $2.00
                  
               
                
            These prices were fixed in 1825 f OF the taverns: 
                  
                     One half pint of whiskey
                     12 cents
                  
                  
                     One pint of whiskey
                     12 cents
                  
                  
                     One half pint of wine
                     25 cents
                  
                  
                     One pint of wine
                     43 cents
                  
                  
                     One half pint of peach brandy
                     12 cents
                  
                  
                     One pint of peach brandy
                     18 cents
                  
                  
                     French brandies at the same rates as wines
                     
                  
                  
                     Meals
                     25 cents
                  
                  
                     Horse feed for 24 hours
                     25 cents
                  
                  
                     Lodging for men
                     25 cents
                  
                  
                     License for taverns
                     $25.00.14
                  
               
                
            This is the first evidence one has of fixing prices.
            These men were the listers for the year 1825: 
                        Jennings
                     township, Ben Lyons; Sterling township, David H. Tucker; Whiskey
                    Run township, James Spencer; Patoka township, John Wood; 
                        Ohio
                     township, Henry Conrad. It was their duty to assess the property in
                    their respective townships. They were appointed by the board doing county
                    business. Their salaries were: 
                  
                     13 County Commissioners' Book 2, January
                            meeting for 1825. Book not numbered by pages.
                  
                     14 Commissioners' Records for Jan. 5,
                            1825.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     John Wood, Patoka twp
                     $5.00
                  
                  
                     James Spencer, Whiskey Run
                     $6.00
                  
                  
                     David H. Tucker, Sterling
                     $7.00
                  
                  
                     Henry Conrad, Ohio twp.
                     $6.00
                  
                  
                     Ben Lyons, 
                                    Jennings
                                
                     
                     $6.00 15
                     
                  
               
                
            The same year Thomas W. Fox was granted a license to run a tavern in 
                        Fredonia
                    . The fee was $20. The prices were fixed on the meals and
                    drinks as shown above. Probably this was the first tavern licensed in the county
                    of 
                        Crawford
                    . The first grocery was opened in 
                        Fredonia
                     in 1830. This was the old name for a saloon. William Curry was the
                    proprietor. John Leggett was granted a license to keep a tavern in 
                        Fredonia
                     in 1825. David Rice was granted a license to keep store and sell
                    foreign merchandise the same year. In 1829 the board doing county business
                    granted Nancy Colhson a license to sell liquor. Probably she was the first woman
                    to sell liquor in the county.
            One of the best known citizens of 
                        Crawford county
                     was Henry Conrad. He moved from 
                        Virginia
                     to 
                        Crawford county
                     and settled in 
                        Fredonia
                     about 1822. He built a two story log house and became a hotel
                    keeper. This old house which has been weather-boarded up is still standing.
                    After the death of Mr. Conrad in 1842 Esau McFall bought the house. During the
                    Civil war when Captain Hines made his disastrous raid into 
                        Crawford county
                     he stopped at 
                        Fredonia
                     and took breakfast at Esau McFall's hotel.16 Henry Conrad was much honored by the people of the county. He was
                    assessor of 
                        Ohio
                     township several times and was road supervisor several years as
                    well as overseer of the poor of 
                        Ohio
                     township. For several years he was jailer and pound master. He died
                    in 
                        Fredonia
                     and was buried in the old cemetery in 1842. His son William A.
                    Conrad ran a store in 
                        Fredonia
                     for many years. After the Civil war he moved to 
                        Kansas
                     and spent the last years of his life at 
                  Winfield, Kansas
               .
            Ever since the county had been organized many people from 
                        Perry county
                     and parts of 
                        Harrison county
                     had wanted to join certain parts of these two counties to 
                        Crawford county
                    . Mr. Tipton, to whom was referred the petition of John Ewing 
                  
                     15 Commissioners' Records for May 8,
                            1827.
                  
                     16 The information given here was furnished by
                            Percy A 
                                Allen
                            , great grandson of Henry Conrad.
               
                     and others of 
                        Perry county
                     praying for that part of 
                        Perry county
                     to be joined to 
                        Crawford county
                    , reported that the prayer was unreasonable and ought not be
                    granted. The house of representatives of Indiana concurred in the report. Not
                    discouraged, the citizens kept on working and secured part of their desire
                    during the next few years as the next pages will show.17
            
            The board doing county business in 1827 transferred a large tract of land from 
                        Perry
                     to 
                        Crawford county
                    . The tract of land began at the meridian line south where 
                        Perry county
                     begins then running north four miles, west six miles, south four
                    miles, and east six miles. This tract of land was added to 
                        Ohio
                     township. Later in the same year 1827 the board of justices made a
                    new township which they called Union. This new township consists of the
                    congressional township three south, range one west, and six sections of the
                    congressional township two south, range one west.
            When Robert Thom died 
                        Allen
                     Thom married his widow. He built a large two story frame house
                    under two giant locust trees on the edge of the river bluff. The old house
                    remained standing till 1918 when it was torn down. Part of the old foundation
                    may yet be seen. The old well out of which the writer has drunk is still used by
                    the people. Allen D. Thom was justice of peace for many years and road
                    supervisor on the 
                        Leavenworth
                     and 
                        Princeton
                     road. The board doing county business appointed him superintendent
                    of the 16th section of township four south, range one east, on January 3,
                        1825.18 In the same year he was asked to open a road 20
                    feet wide from 
                        Fredonia
                     to the mouth of Little Blue in the direction of Rome.
            In 1827 there was an exciting election in 
                        Crawford county
                    . The point at issue was whether Seth Leavenworth should be elected
                    to the General Assembly. He was in favor of moving the county seat from 
                        Fredonia
                     to 
                        Leavenworth
                    . Gorry Jones contested the election and the board doing business
                    heard the evidence. It appeared that James Coeputs, Will Hooten, David Swarens,
                    Ephriam Mansfield and John Maxwell had cast illegal 
                  
                     17 Commissioners' Records for Sept. 3,
                            1827. They are not numbered by pages.
                  
                     18 County commissioners' records for
                            January 3, 1825.
               
                     votes in the election at the town of 
                        Leavenworth
                    . The board voted to seat 
                        Leavenworth
                     by the ayes: Mesen, McMickel, Wood, Flinn, Tadlock, Blackwell,
                    Woodford and 
                        Leavenworth
                    . The nays were: Mesen, Rice, Thom and Suggs. It was plain to be
                    seen that Thom did not want 
                        Leavenworth
                     to go to, the General Assembly at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .19
            
            In 1827 the people sent Thom to 
                        Indianapolis
                     when the bill was before the General Assembly to build a railroad
                    from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to the Ohio river. Thom met the committee and
                    made one of the greatest speeches of his life in favor of the railroad being
                    built to 
                        Fredonia
                     instead of 
                        Madison
                    . When the committee voted Madison won the road by one vote.20
            
            Leavenworth who represented 
                        Crawford county
                     in the General Assembly made a great speech in favor of railroads
                    instead of canals. One may see the speech in full in the Indiana Journal, March 20, 1827. Both Thom and Seth Leavenworth lost
                    popularity by advocating railroads. Hence, the first road was built from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Madison
                    . Thom was appointed postmaster in these early days. He was a tall
                    man and wore a high top silk hat, in the crown of which he
                    carried the letters while he was working around the town. If a man asked him
                    about mail, he took off his hat and ran the letters and gave the man whatever
                    were for him. Then he put the others in his hat and went about his business. The
                    mail left 
                        Fredonia
                     at 6:00 a. m. Wednesdays and arrived at 
                        Princeton
                     at 6:00 p. m. Thursdays. On the return the mail left 
                        Princeton
                     at 6:00 a. m. Thursdays and arrived at 
                        Fredonia
                     6:00 p. m. Fridays. Mail by way of Corydon and 
                        Bedford
                     arrived weekly. Not many letters ever came to 
                        Fredonia
                     so one can see why Thom carried them in his hat.21
            
            Mr. Thom was a very peculiar man. He never drank any water at all and was always
                    of a cold disposition. He would wear an overcoat while working in the harvest
                        field.22 Thom lived to be a very old man. He died about
                    1867 and was buried in the cemetery at 
                        Fredonia
                    . There is a brick for a 
                  
                     19 Information by Percy Allen of 
                                Fredonia
                            .
                  
                     20 Information by 
                                Allen
                             of 
                                Fredonia
                            .
                  
                     21 Information given by George E. Wiseman of
                            Beechwood, who knew Thom well.
                  
                     22 Information furnished by Samuel R. Bird who
                            married into the Thom family.
               
                     head-stone at his grave. After much trouble
                    the writer, with the assistance of Mr. Wiseman, was able to locate the grave.
                    Mr. Thorn once made a race for Congress but was defeated in the nomination. His
                    wife died about 1875 and the estate was in the courts of 
                        Crawford county
                     for many years till it was settled in 1918 when his grand-daughter,
                    Mrs. Hattie Henley, was appointed administratrix for the estate.
            After the county seat was located at 
                        Fredonia
                     in 1822 business began to boom. A man named Best bought a large
                    tract of timber which he sawed into plow beams. Mr. Best lived in 
                        Louisville
                     and owned a large hotel in that city. He put a heavy mortgage upon
                    the hotel to get the money to buy the saw mill which he set up at 
                        Fredonia
                    . For a long time during the panic of 1837 and afterwards the market
                    was not very good, hence he could not sell the plow beams from which he hoped to
                    get the money to pay off the mortgage on the hotel. William Conrad, who ran a
                    store in 
                        Fredonia
                    , one day called Best into the store and asked him about the matter.
                    Best was much discouraged and felt that he was sure to lose the hotel. Then Mr.
                    Conrad told Best that the men were intending to close the mortgage when it
                    became due but he was ready to help him and could loan him the money. On the day
                    on which the mortgage became due Conrad went with Best to 
                        Louisville
                     and paid off the mortgage. At that time he had acres of land
                    covered with sawed plow beams. After some time the sale of timber grew better
                    and the man paid Conrad every cent of the debt.23 Mr. Best
                    brought with him a man named Frye to be his head sawyer. Mr. Frye who was a
                    Scotchman did well with the work, but his love for whiskey overcame his best
                    judgment and he died a pauper m 
                        Fredonia
                    . On his death bed he requested his friends to bury his chopping ax
                    and a pint of brandy with him. This request was performed and the ax and the
                    brandy were put in the coffin with him.24
            
            Another old settler of 
                        Fredonia
                     was Walter Gowans, who was born in 
                        Scotland
                     in 1767. He moved to America and located at 
                        Fredonia
                     in 1821. When the plague of cholera was so bad in 1832 he fell a
                    victim to that malady. His grave is one of the oldest in the county which has no
                        marker.25
            
            
               
                  23 This information was given by Percy Allen, grandson
                        of Mr. Conrad of 
                            Fredonia
                         and has the old account books of that Mr. Conrad yet.
               
                  24-25 This information was furnished by Percy Allen of 
                            Fredonia
                        .
            
            
            Another important industry in these days at 
                        Fredonia
                     was tanning. Mr. Collingwood built a large tannery just out of the
                    town and employed three men all of the time. Thousands of hides were tanned
                    there and then shipped away on boats for the trade on the 
                        Mississippi
                     and at 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            During all these busy days while the county seat was at 
                        Fredonia
                     only one man was killed in that town. His name was Hoback. One
                    night he attended a dance at the Mrs. Cummins' home. Here trouble arose
                    between him and another man. A fight ensued in which Hoback was killed with a
                    wooden hammer or maul. The court acquitted the defendant on the grounds of self
                    defense.
            Many amusing stories are told about William Conrad, who was justice of peace, and
                    kept a large store in 
                        Fredonia
                     in these early days. Saturday was the most trying day of all. On
                    that day the country people came to town to trade. West of the town about three
                    miles lived two large men named Wiseman. They weighed about three hundred pounds
                    each. There were two or three Goads in the county that were about as large and
                    as strong. A feud grew up between these parties. When they came to town on
                    Saturdays they did their trading and put all the groceries in their wagons and
                    then got brandy and went out under the trees to drink. A fight was sure to
                    follow in a few minutes. Then Mr. Conrad would go out and arrest the men and
                    bring them into the office, try and fine them 50 cents and costs. The men always
                    paid the fines, after which he would make them shake hands and agree to be
                    friends, give them a pint of brandy and put them into the wagon and send them
                    home rejoicing.26
            
            On the old account books of William Conrad one often finds charged to some one:
                    One gallon of brandy at 75 cents. Mrs. Thorn's account on a certain
                    page on which the date of 1860 is given is:
            
               Debit
               
                  January 18, two sad irons
                  $1.00.
               
               
                  . . 21, one box of hair pins
                  20 cents.
               
               
                  . . 22, three pounds of coffee
                  50 cents.
               
               
                  . . 23, two pounds of butter
                  40 cents.
               
               
                  Total debit
                  $2.10.
               
            
            
               
                  26 Percy A. Allen, the grandson of Mr. William
                    Conrad.
            
            
            The first school house which was built in 
                        Fredonia
                     was of logs. The old recitation bench is in 
                        Allen
                    's store at 
                        Fredonia
                     at the date of this writing. This old seat has many cuts and carved
                    marks on it. It was made out of yellow poplar and must be about 75 years old.27
            
            LEAVENWORTH
            The town of 
                        Leavenworth
                     was named after two men who platted the town and lived there many
                    years. Seth Marshall Leavenworth was the fifth in descent from Thomas
                    Leavenworth, who moved from 
                        England
                     to America in 1664 and settled at Rockbury, 
                        Connecticut
                    , where Seth Marshall was born June 13, 1782. His early education
                    was obtained in the grammar schools of 
                        Connecticut
                    . Having caught the western fever he came west in 1809 and located
                    at 
                        Cincinnati
                     for some time. While here he studied law and taught school. After a
                    short time he moved farther west and finally settled at what Is now Leavenworth
                    and bought a large tract of land in 1818. While living at 
                        Leavenworth
                     he became engaged to Esther Mathers, of Cape May, 
                        New Jersey
                    , whom he married at 
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana, June 15, 1820.
            He engaged in business in 
                        Crawford county
                     and was vary successful. He helped build a mill at 
                        Leavenworth
                     where corn and wheat were ground and lumber sawed. In 1827 he built
                    a mill at what is now Milltown, which for many years went by the name of
                    Leavenworth's mill. While he owned the mills at 
                        Milltown
                     and at 
                        Leavenworth
                    , he was very much interested in the navigation of Big
                        Blue river.1 He wanted the General Assembly
                    of Indiana to enact a law to improve Big Blue river but
                    every bill failed to pass.2 He helped to locate and open all
                    new roads many of which ran from 
                        Leavenworth
                     out into the state. The roads tended to direct the trade and the
                    business into the little town of 
                        Leavenworth
                    .
            
               
                  27 Information from Conrad's old account
                        books.
               
                  1 All information was taken from the genealogy book of
                        the Leavenworths. In the Liberty Hall of 
                            Cincinnati
                        , June 19, 1811, is an advertisement by Seth M. Leavenworth for
                        a school. The term closed June 30, and the next opened July 7. "All
                        Sciences" were taught.–ED.
               
                  2 Indiana House Journal for 1827,
                        pages 316-374. Read was twice candidate for governor. He and Leavenworth
                        were political rivals. In a tilt before the Assembly Leavenworth usually had
                        the advantage.–ED.
            
            
            The people soon recognized that Mr. Leavenworth was a leader so he was elected to
                    represent 
                        Crawford county
                     in the General Assembly at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1827. One of his objects was to move the county seat from 
                        Fredonia
                     to Leavenworth. Of course this always caused an uproar among the
                    people of 
                        Fredonia
                    . He introduced several petitions sent to him by various citizens
                    and these caused so much confusion at times that Mr. Read of Davis and 
                        Martin
                     counties refused to serve on the committee with him but led the
                    fight against the resolution. On a test vote the house refused to kill the
                    resolution. Later Mr. Leavenworth withdrew all the petitions.
            Mr. Leavenworth tried hard to get a law enacted to build a railroad from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to the Ohio river. When the matter came up
                    before the people' of 
                        Crawford county
                     such a storm of opposition arose that he was not re-elected in
                    1828. He believed that railroads were better than canals and made a remarkable
                    speech in favor of railroads. This speech caused so much comment that the Indiana Journal secured a copy from Mr. Leavenworth and
                    printed it in the Journal, March 20, 1827. Men said that the
                    "cars" would run over the stock in the fields and woods and
                    kill the children in the streets. At that time the stock ran out in the
                        forests.3
            
            One very far-sighted measure which Mr. Leavenworth advocated was a Marine
                    hospital for the sick river men. Often these men and women were exposed to the
                    cholera and other diseases while they were traveling on the boats. Sometimes
                    there would be an epidemic of cholera at 
                        New Orleans
                    . A passenger returning from the south might develop the disease
                    while he was on the boat and expose everyone on the boat. After various
                    encounters in the house the measure was defeated. Had this law been enacted the
                    state would have been compelled to build a hospital at some town oh the
                        Ohio river, where men who were sick on the boats might
                    be taken and cared for till they were able to go home.4
            
            In 1828 he opened up a tavern at 
                        Leavenworth
                    , where he had operated ferries over the Ohio
                    river and Big Blue, besides operating the mills which have been
                    mentioned. He was interested in education and at one time was one of the 
                  
                     3
                            Indiana Journal, March 20, 1827.
                  
                     4 Indiana House Journal 1829,
                            pages 127 and 172.
               
                     trustees of Indiana University, 1838.5 He was engaged in every enterprise whereby the county
                    would be improved. The commissioner's records from 1824 to 1834 have
                    many references to his activities. He lived at 
                        Leavenworth
                     till about 1850 when he moved to 
                        Missouri
                    , where he died in 1853.
            Zebulum Leavenworth, who was also a descendant of the above mentioned Thomas
                    Leavenworth, was a cousin of Seth Marshall. He was born at
                            
                  Granville, Massachusetts
               , January 4,
                    1792. He attended the public schools till he completed the course of study. When
                    the great tide of immigration began in 1811 he moved west to the city of 
                        Cincinnati
                     where he taught school one year. After he had closed his school in
                    1812 he studied law at 
                  Chillicothe, Ohio
               , under Judge Scott for one year. In 1814 he became a
                    surveyor. The government at that time needed a large number of surveyors because
                    the War of 1812 was practically over and a great number of men were moving west.
                    Mr. Leavenworth was a very good mathematician and enjoyed the work. He went to 
                        Illinois
                     and worked for the government for a long time. When he was no
                    longer needed he returned to 
                        Cincinnati
                     on a keel boat. This was rather slow traveling. The keel boat was
                    different from the broad horn, being pushed with oars and poles. This must have
                    been a laborious undertaking when one thinks of pushing an old boat for several
                    hundred miles against the current of the swift Ohio river.
                    Arriving at 
                        Cincinnati
                     he engaged in trade with success. In 1816 he moved to 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Indiana, and two years later he located at what is now 
                        Leavenworth
                    , Indiana, in 
                        Crawford county
                    .
            On January 11, 1821, he married Margaret Patterson, at 
                        Leavenworth
                    , Indiana. She was born in 
                        Delaware
                    , December 28, 1802, her people moving to 
                        Leavenworth
                     in 1819.6
            
            Zebulum Leavenworth was connected with Seth M. Leavenworth in most of the
                    enterprises already mentioned.
            He served in the General Assembly of Indiana during the sessions of 1830, 1832
                    and 1833. His work on education, on the management of the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and on finances were meritorious. He served on the committee of
                    ways and 
                  
                     5 Indiana University Catalogue
                            for 1837-38, 39.
                  
                     6 Most all the information on this page was taken
                            from the 
                                Leavenworth
                             genealogy book.
               
                     means, opposed the law which changed the
                    way of doing business in 
                        Crawford county
                     but was defeated. When he returned home in 1831 the people elected
                    him county commissioner from the second district composed of 
                        Jennings
                     township. He was road supervisor for many years and in 1827 he was
                    elected justice of peace for 
                        Jennings
                     township.7
            
            Mr. Leavenworth was one of the stockholders in the clay turnpike company and
                    helped run the stage line from 
                        Leavenworth
                     via 
                        Bloomington
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . As late as 1860 several of the old coaches of this stage line
                    could be seen standing in the vacant lots at 
                        Leavenworth
                    .8
            
            In 1858 Zebulum Leavenworth was elected township trustee of 
                        Jennings
                     township.9
            
            In 1858 Mr. Leavenworth went over part of 
                        Scott
                     township in 
                        Harrison county
                     and secured the signatures of 72 land owners to a petition praying
                    that that part of 
                        Scott
                     township be joined to 
                        Crawford county
                    . The citizens of 
                        Harrison county
                     carried the case to the circuit court at 
                        Corydon
                    . When the case was called for trial Mr. Walter Q. Gresham was
                    Leavenworth's attorney and Mr. Wolf represented 
                        Harrison county
                    . For a long time it seemed that 
                        Crawford county
                     would win, and just as the county judge was about to give the
                    decision Attorney Wolf came up to the judge and said that he wanted to see him
                    privately before he gave the decision. In the private interview Wolf told the
                    judge that if that part of 
                        Scott
                     township was given to 
                        Crawford county
                     that it would endanger the Democratic party in the county of 
                        Harrison
                    ; that part of the township was heavily Democratic and if given to 
                        Crawford county
                     it would reduce the majority in 
                        Harrison county
                     so much that the party would be in danger of defeat. The next
                    morning the judge decided that the action was unconstitutional and the land
                    could not be given to 
                        Crawford county
                    . Mr. Leavenworth could have appealed the case to the state supreme
                    court for the sum of 50 dollars but he could not get a man in the town of 
                        Leavenworth
                     to help raise the money.10 Had that land been
                    gained to 
                        Crawford county
                     in 1858, then English would not have won 
                  
                     7 County Commissioners' Records from 1S24
                            to 1834.
                  
                     8 Information given the writer by E. P.
                            Leavenworth, son of Zebulum Leavenworth.
                  
                     9 County Commissioners' Records for
                        1859.
               
                     the county seat in 1896, for then the town
                    of English would not have been the central point of the county. Mr. Leavenworth
                    lived to celebrate his golden wedding at 
                        Leavenworth
                     in 1871. The 
                        Leavenworth
                    
                    Independent has the following account of the celebration:
                        
                        Golden Wedding A Half Century of Wedded Life The Dinner Speeches Supper
                            Presents A Rare Occasion and a Splendid Time. The first golden wedding
                            ever celebrated in 
                                Crawford county
                             took place at the residence of Oliver Leavenworth near the
                            town last Wednesday evening. The parties celebrating their fiftieth year
                            of wedded life were Zebuluni Leavenworth and his wife, Margaret
                            Leavenworth. Ages 79 and 69 respectively.
                        At the dinner party given on Wednesday at noon to a number of friends and
                            members of the family Mr. Leavenworth arose and in a voice full of
                            emotion gave the history of their married life in poem form. The poem
                            was full of pathos and sublime thoughts and when the aged gentleman
                            resumed his seat every eye was full of tears. Below is the poem in full:
                                
                        Fifty years through shine and shadow, Fifty years, my gentle
                                    wife, You and I have walked togethr Down the rugged hill of
                                    life.
                        From the hill of spring we started And through all the summer
                                    land And the fruited autumn country We have journey hand in
                                    hand.
                        We have borne the heat and burden Willingly, painfully, and
                                    slow. We have gathered in our harvest With rejoicing long ago.
                        Leave the upland to our children. They are strong to sow and
                                    reap. Through the quiet wintry lowlands We our level way will
                                    keep.
                        
                                    'Tis a dreary country, darling, You and I are
                                        passing through, But the road lies straight before us And
                                        the miles are short and few. 
                                 
                                    10 Information given by his
                                                son E. P. Leavenworth.
                                 
                                    11 Leavenworth Genealogy
                                            Book.
                              
                           
                                
                        
                        No more dangers to encounter, No more hills to climb, true
                                    friend, Nothing now but simple walking Till we reach the
                                    journey's end.
                        We have had our time of gladness. It was a proud and happy
                                    day. Ah. The proudest of our journey When we felt that we could
                                    say;.
                        Of the children God has given us, Proudly looking on the six,
                                    Lovely women are our daughters And our sons are manly men.
                        We have had our time of sorrow And our time of anxious fear
                                    When we could not see the mile stones Through the blindness of
                                    our tears.
                        In the sunny summer country Far behind us Little Zebie,
                                    Thaddie, And Marshall, too, grew weary And we left them on the
                                    way.
                        Are you looking backward, Mother, That you stumble in the
                                    snow? I am still your guide and staff, Lean upon me even so.
                        And what is that which you say? Yes, I know your eyes are dim
                                    But we have not lost our journey And our trust is placed in him.
                        Cheer thee, cheer thee, faithful heart, Just a little way
                                    before, Lies the great 
                                        Eternal City
                                     Of the King that we adore.
                        I can see the shining spires And the King, the King, my dear,
                                    We have served him long and faithful. He will bless us never
                                    fear.
                        
                        And the snow falls fast and heavy, How you shiver in the cold,
                                    Let me wrap your mantle closer And my arm about you fold.
                        We are weak and faint and heavy And the sun's low in
                                    the west, We have reached the gate, my darling, Let us tarry
                                    here and rest.
                     
                  
                    
            
            Mr. Leavenworth lived at his home there till about 1878 when he died and was
                    buried in Cedar cemetery, overlooking the little town in which he had lived so
                    long and which he loved so well. The hill covered with cedars was given to the
                    town by Mr. Leavenworth for a cemetery and has long been known as Cedar
                        cemetery.12 His son with whom the author is well
                    acquainted lives in 
                        Leavenworth
                     at the date of writing and has furnished valuable information.
            The site of Leavenworth lies on the Ohio river about three
                    miles above the town of 
                        Fredonia
                    , where the rich bottom is about one-fourth of a mile wide. A large
                    spring of the best drinking water ran out from under the river hill. Hence the
                    site was much superior to the town of 
                        Fredonia
                    . The town is about 363 feet above the sea.13
                    Boats can land directly at the wharf. The plat which was made by the
                    Leavenworths may yet be seen in the county recorder's office at
                    English, the county seat. The streets as platted are 50 feet wide, except Front
                    street, which is 60. The alleys are 12 feet wide. The plat submitted here is an
                    exact copy of the original. It was filed in the recorder's office at
                    Mount Sterling on July 14, 1819, William Samuels being the county recorder at
                    that time.14
            
            The town was situated on the deepest bend of the Ohio river
                    and soon became a landing port for the towns of 
                  Salem, Paoli, Bono, Jasper
                and 
                        Bloomington
                    . Of course not all of the commerce of these towns passed through
                    Leavenworth but a large amount of the trade passed there. Leavenworth was the
                    principal trading point till the Monon railroad was 
                  
                     12 Information given the author by Mrs. Sullivan
                            of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , one or his daughters.
                  
                     13
                            Indiana School Journal.
                  
                     14 "County recorder's office,
                            Deed Book 1, page 21.
               
                     built out from 
                        New Albany
                     through Borden, 
                        Salem
                    , Orleans, 
                        Bedford
                     and 
                        Bloomington
                    . Then freight could be hauled to those towns much easier and
                    cheaper on the railroads.
            The old bus or stage line ran from 
                        Leavenworth
                     to 
                        Bloomington
                    . It left 
                        Bedford
                     every Monday at 6:00 a. m. and came by the way of Mount Sterling
                    and 
                        Fredonia
                     with the mail. The mail bus arrived at 
                        Fredonia
                     on Tuesday at noon. After the 
                        Salem
                     and the Paoli roads were built the coaches ran directly to these
                    towns and did not go around by 
                        Fredonia
                    .15 One may judge of the amount of business done
                    at 
                        Leavenworth
                     by the number of roads which ran out from the town in all
                    directions.
            The freight could be landed on the banks of the Ohio river
                    at 
                        Leavenworth
                     very easily. A road was built up the side of the bluff back of 
                        Leavenworth
                     and another road was constructed up the hill by going around up
                    Poison creek. Here the hill is not so precipitous and a reasonable load can be
                    hauled when the roads are kept in good repair. The old Jasper road came up the
                    river hill near the Big spring. One who has not seen the river hills here cannot
                    tell anything about the amount of work required to construct such a road.
            Many town lots were sold in 
                        Leavenworth
                     after the plat was recorded. The board doing county business
                    granted Julius Woodford a license to sell foreign merchandise on May 2, 1825,
                    for a fee of $10. This license was good for one year and permitted
                    the man to sell any imported goods that he cared to handle and the people would
                    buy. Elias Lyons opened up a store on January 2, 1827.16
            
            Elisha Tadlock, who had represented 
                        Crawford county
                     in the Genera] Assembly in 1825, was the first one to open up a
                    tavern in 
                        Leavenworth
                    . He began business in May, 1827. Seth Marshall Leavenworth opened
                    up a hotel in 1828. H. H. Samuels started a store in the town on the first day
                    of January, 1833. Just how many people lived in the town of 
                        Leavenworth
                     in 1830 one cannot now tell. In that year there were 3,234 people
                    in the county. In 1820 there were 2,583. By 1830 there were about 128 farms sold
                    in the county. Hence one can see that there was a large number of squatters in
                        
                  
                     15
                            Indiana Journal, August 14, 1827. See mail
                        bids.
               
                     the county.16 In that
                    case Leavenworth might have had 100 people.
            In 1834 the leading citizens of Leavenworth secured several lots near where the
                    Big spring branch runs into the Ohio river and started a
                    manufacturing company. One finds a record of the matter in the grantor and the
                    grantee books, but no further trace of the matter can be found. The records do
                    not tell what the company manufactured. The following is a brief form of the
                    charter which the General Assembly granted the company.
            The Leavenworth Manufacturing Company was incorporated by law February 1, 1834.
                    The principal sections of the charter are: 
                        Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Indiana,
                            that John Peckinpaugh, Dudley Gresham, and Elam Willey together with
                            such other persons as may associate with them for the purpose of
                            prosecuting the manufacturing, exporting and importing business within
                            the state to be established and located at the town of 
                                Leavenworth
                             or near the town in 
                                Crawford county
                            , Indiana, be and the same are hereby ordained and declared
                            to be a body politic and to all intents and purposes to be known by the
                            name of the Leavenworth Manufacturing Company by which name they and
                            their successors shall have continued succession, and be entitled to use
                            all the privileges and the immunities of the laws of the state of
                            Indiana. The said corporation shall exist for a term of 50 years.
                        Section 2. The capital stock of the company shall consist of
                            $100000 and shall consist of $100 shares. The said
                            corporation shall begin business when $4000 worth of the
                            stock has been sold. Dudley Gresham, Elam Willey, and John Peckinpaugh
                            shall receive subscriptions to the said capital stock. Section 3. When
                            $4000 worth of the capital stock has been sold,
                            the.corporation shall elect 5 directors who shall have the whole
                            management of the stock and the property. The said directors shall be
                            elected by the stock holders.
                        Section 6. The stock holders of the corporation shall be held responsible
                            for the amount of their subscriptions to the capital stock.
                        Section 7. The capital stock shall be considered as personal property and
                            managed as the board of directors may direct.
                        Section 9. This corporation shall not act or be engaged in any species of
                            banking business or issue any bills of credit in the form of bank notes.
                        
                     
                        16 Commissioners' Records on the
                                above dates using book two.
                  
                        
                        Section 10. This act shall be and is hereby declared to be a public act
                            for the purpose herein specified and shall take effect and be in force
                            at once.17
                  
                    
            
            Leavenworth by 1830 had far outgrown 
                        Fredonia
                    . Many of the citizens of the town had for some time desired the
                    seat of justice re-located at 
                        Leavenworth
                    . A law was enacted in 1827 which provided for the relocating of
                    county seats by a committee consisting of Henry McGee of 
                        Orange county
                    , John McPheeters and Robert Mclntire of 
                        Washington
                    , George Boone of Harrison and David Burr of 
                        Jackson
                    .18
            
            This committee was to meet at 
                        Fredonia
                     on the first Monday in March, 1828, and make a careful study of the
                    situation. Should the committee after a careful survey think that the seat of
                    justice ought to be moved, the committee was authorized to choose a new seat of
                    justice. This committee did not think it was best to move the seat of justice;
                    so the county seat remained at 
                        Fredonia
                     for several years more.
            In 1831 the law of Indiana made a change in the way of doing county business.
                    Before that date most of the business was done by a board composed in 
                        Crawford county
                     of justices of peace from each township. By the new law the county
                    was divided into three districts and one commissioner was to be elected from
                    each district. At the election held in August, 1831, Zebulum Leavenworth was
                    elected commissioner from the second district composed of 
                        Jennings
                     and Whiskey Run townships. Jacob Rice was elected from the first
                    district composed of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Union
                     townships. James Glenn was elected from the third district composed
                    of Sterling and Patoka townships. The seal of the county commissioners consisted
                    of a round device containing these words: "Commissioners'
                    Court of 
                        Crawford County
                    ", and a likeness of a girl holding a pair of balances.19
            
            The people in 
                        Leavenworth
                     tried to build up a town seminary. On December 24, 1830, a law was
                    enacted providing for the incorporation of a seminary. The chief men who
                    composed the body corporate and politic were John L. Smith, Elam Willey, Andrew
                    Biers, James B. Davidson and Seth M. Leaven-worth 
                  
                     17
                            Indiana State Laws 1834, page 98.
                  
                     18
                     Indiana State Laws 1827, page
                            86.
                  
                     19
                            Indiana State Laws 1830-1831, page 59.
               
                     They were styled "The President
                    and the Trustees of the Leavenworth Seminary Society" and in that name
                    could sue and be sued.20
            
            The law provided that the trustees should be elected annually on the first Monday
                    of April by the subscribers of the seminary. These trustees should take an oath
                    before entering upon their duties and after which they should elect one of their
                    number president who should be competent to manage the business.
            The trustees were to employ competent men as teachers and dismiss the same when
                    thought best. The law looked well on paper but so many difficulties existed that
                    not much was done in education. 
                        Fredonia
                     had a school society too about this time, but the citizens there
                    never succeeded any better than the ones at 
                        Leavenworth
                     in school matters. The chief men who were interested in 
                        Fredonia
                     were Allen D. Thom, Jacob Rice and Thomas Cummins.21
            
            Leavenworth was more successful when in 1835 a law was enacted to incorporate a
                    seminary for 
                        Crawford county
                    . The board of trustees located the site of the seminary at 
                        Leavenworth
                    .
            
                    Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
                        That the qualified voters living in 
                            Crawford county
                         are hereby authorized to elect at their next annual election
                        one commissioner or a seminary trustee in each township of the county by a
                        vote of the whole county, and the qualified voter in each township receiving
                        the highest number of votes given in said election in the whole county shall
                        be considered as duly elected trustee.
                    Section 2. The trustees so elected or two thirds of them shall meet in the
                        town of 
                            Leavenworth
                         on the first Monday in May next, and each before entering upon
                        his duties as trustee execute a bond with security, made payable to the
                        state of Indiana in a penalty of $400, conditioned for the
                        faithful performance of their duties as such, which bond shall be filed in
                        the clerk's office.
                    Section 3. The trustees so elected and their successors in office are hereby
                        constituted a body politic and corporate by the name and style of the
                        president and the trustees of the 
                            Crawford county
                         seminary, and by that name corporate name may sue and be sued,
                        plead and be impleaded in any court of legal proceedings in this state and
                        by that name have perpetual succession.
                    
                  
                     20 County Commissioners' Records for
                            1831.
                  
                     21
                            Indiana State Laws 1831, page 131.
               
                    
                    Section 4. The trustees at their first meeting, or any subsequent meeting,
                        may appoint, designate, fix, and determine, at which place in said county
                        the seminary shall be located and a suitable building erected. When the
                        majority of trustees has selected a place and a suitable lot on which to
                        locate said building they may demand the seminary funds of the county which
                        may be on hands at that time.
                    Section 5. The trustees or a majority of them, at their first or subsequent
                        meeting shall elect of their own body a president and a treasurer who may
                        not be of their own body, to continue in office during the will of a
                        majority of the trustees.
                    Section 6. The treasurer of 
                            Crawford county
                         is hereby authorized and required to pay any order given by the
                        board of county commissioners to the trustee of the 
                            Crawford county
                         library.
                    Section 7. The trustees so elected shall remain in office during good
                            behaviour.22
               
                
            The trustees met at 
                        Leavenworth
                     and after being duly organized and having considered different
                    places selected Leavenworth as the site for the county seminary. Ebenezer E.
                    Morgan, who was county clerk, sold the trustees certain lots on which to build
                    the seminary. These lots are designated on the plat of the town of 
                        Leavenworth
                    . At that time William Course, who was seminary trustee, had
                    $427.66 on hands.
            The trustees built a large two story house for the seminary. The old building
                    which is still standing is now used for a residence by William Conrad.
            Leavenworth by 1840 had far outgrown 
                        Fredonia
                    . A newspaper, The Leavenworth Arena, was being
                    published in 1839. The Arena was the first paper that one
                    finds any account of in the records of the county.23
            
            The town of 
                        Leavenworth
                     was incorporated by a state law February 7, 1835.
            
               
                  22
                        Indiana State Laws 1835, page 32.
               
                  23 Commissioners' Records, book three,
                        January, 1839.
            
         
         
         
            Pioneer Stories of the Calumet
            J. W. LESTER, 
                        Gary
                    
            
            When I undertook to write the stories of 
                        Lake county
                     pioneers, I had no thought of contributing anything to local
                    history, for it seemed obvious that the ground had been thoroughly searched for
                    information of historic interest. Mrs. Sheehan, Mr. Knotts, Mr. Bowers, Mr.
                    Matthews, and our friends in 
                        Hammond
                    , Crown Point, and other places in the county, had given the public
                    accurate and intensely interesting reports of their findings.
            But I always have enjoyed visiting strange places and meeting interesting people.
                    I take in shorthand the exact words of those who have a story to tell. It is to
                    me a diversion which has become a hobby. When I record a story I hold myself
                    unaccountable for grammatical or other errors, for should any occur I can point
                    to the other person and say, "He told it." While the one who
                    tells the story can evade criticism by pointing to me and saying, "He
                    wrote it." My plan lessens the responsibility of both parties.
            Of the many stories I have recorded, the most interesting are of the early stage
                    routes, the trails, and the home life of the pioneers. One tells of hunting deer
                    and wild 
                        turkey
                     on the banks of the Calumet; another of the taverns along the stage
                    roads; and still others, of seeing the first steam engine; of fighting bald
                    eagles along the beach; of visiting Indian encampments and partaking of muskrat
                    stew; of witnessing the exodus of the Pottawatamies when they were forced by the
                    government to leave the richest hunting grounds in America; of the battles
                    between gamewardens and poachers among the swamps of the Little Calumet; of the
                    first building on the present site of this city; and finally of the beginnings
                    of 
                  Hegewisch, Tolleston, Hammond
               , and 
                        Gary
                    . Among those whose stories I have recorded are: Mrs. Henrietta
                    Gibson, Rev. Handley, Isaac Crissman, Wm. Kunert, Mrs. Vincent, Mr. Pesche,
                    Conrad Fabian, Mr. Nimitz, Mrs. Carr, and Arthur Patterson.
            Copies of these stories are to be preserved in the city library by our secretary,
                    Mr. Baily, and they will be accessible to members of the historical society and
                    others who might be interested.
            REMINISCENCES OP MRS. HENRIETTA GIBSON (January 2, 1922)
            My full name is Henrietta E. Gibson. I was born in 
                  Hamilton, Canada
               , September 18, 1844. My father's name was
                    David Combs. He was born in 
                  Erie, New
                    York
               , and was a manufacturer of cloth. I have one
                    brother, Major George W.  Combs, of Glencoe, 
                        Illinois
                    . Our family came by way of 
                        Detroit
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     in 1846, and to Ainsworth station, now called 
                        South Chicago
                    , on February 27, 1850. There was only one building there. That was
                    the depot, and a man by the name of Spears was agent. Father traded two horses
                    and a wagon and harness for forty acres where 
                        Hegewisch
                     is. That part of the country was called The Calumet region. It was
                    nothing but a wilderness of swamps, and the government sold the land for a
                    dollar and a quarter an acre. Our farm was right where the U. S. Rolling Stock
                    company factory is located, at 
                        Hegewisch
                    . Father bought the James "H. Cassidy inn at the toll
                    bridge, in 1850, and bought the stage house from Mr. Brum-ley in 1853. That was
                    about a half-mile from the fork of the Calumet river. The
                    driver of the stage coach always blew a horn before he came in. Stages ran on a
                    regular schedule like the railroads, so we knew when they would come and watched
                    for them. Father would have horses hitched at the barn, or relay station, so
                    they could go right on to 
                        Chicago
                    . The station was on the north side of the river at 
                        Hegewisch
                    . George Bunt kept the toll gate there and charged three cents for
                    each team that was driven across the river.
            There were lots of Indians there. They kept their wigwams right at the forks of
                    the Grand Calumet, about a half-mile south of our stage house. They were
                    Pottawatamies. Chief Shaubenee often came there on business. He was very
                    friendly. My mother often hired the squaws to work about the house, but they
                    wouldn't take any money for it because their husbands would take it
                    from them, so my mother gave them flour and eggs. One name was Naominequay (Na-o
                    mi-ne-quay'). She could talk English, and was rather nice looking. I
                    played with the Indian children a great deal and acquired a kind of a dialect so
                    I could talk with them. Two of the girls had English names, Mary and Elizabeth.
                    The boys hunted with bows and arrows; the older men, with old-fashioned guns.
                    Shaubenee was short and thick-set and had long hair. In cold weather he wore a
                    blanket and fairly good Indian clothes, including the leggings, blanket and
                    moccasins, and he always wore hoop earrings. His blanket was red, trimmed with a
                    black border–most of them wore gray. He used to say, "I be
                    Shaubenee–I own Shaubenee Grove." That  was the way he introduced himself. Once he brought
                    two girls to our house. I think they were his daughters. They went to Notre Dame
                    college and were fine girls. They dressed like Americans and played lovely on
                    the piano. He was proud of them and wasn't satisfied to have them like
                    the other Indian girls. When they came home they always came by stage. The
                    Indians always went to the Straits of Mackinac in summer. They were lazy, and
                    did nothing but hunt and fish. They were all Catholics, and we could hear them
                    worshiping in the morning. They would kneel down to the sun and chant. I often
                    went with my father to their wigwams. The squaws made baskets, moccasins and
                    miniature canoes of birch bark. They ornamented the things with porcupine
                    quills. They made flowers on the edges of the canoes and stained them with
                    berries. Most of them left in 1862, as 
                        Tolleston
                     was building up then and the whites were coming in fast and
                    crowding them out. Father sold the stage house there to Doctor Egan, of 
                        Chicago
                    .
            I was married in 1860 and I only saw a few Indians after that. My husband was the
                    first station agent at 
                        Tolleston
                    . While we were there two boys called one day on their way home from
                    college. They were tall, straight and nice looking. They asked if I remembered
                    them, but I didn't; then one reminded me of something that had happened
                    at their camp when I had visited it, and then I remembered them. His name was
                    Antone. They were both well dressed. After we moved to 
                        Tolleston
                     I saw an encampment in 
                        Gary
                    , or where 
                        Gary
                     is now. It was on the edge of the Calumet marsh right down here at
                    Twenty-first avenue, south of the 
                        Michigan
                     Central and just north of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     railroad, about a half a mile east of where 
                        Broadway
                     is. I saw some of the Indians we knew at 
                        Hegewisch
                    , and often saw Shaubenee out here. One day when I was there they
                    had quartered muskrat and yellow hard corn they were cooking in a big camp
                    kettle that looked like a soap kettle. It set out in the open, and they had
                    sticks set up, with one across them to hang the kettle on. They dipped the stuff
                    out and ate it with some kind of wooden spoons or gourds. They were pleased to
                    have us come to see them, and they offered me some of the soup. I
                    didn't want to? taste it, but tried it to please them. I
                    didn't like it, for  they
                    didn't use any salt or other seasoning. The encampment was in a valley
                    at the base of a large dune they called Coup-ne-con'. Con Sheffier
                    removed the dune and he found the remains of an Indian in the sand. He gave them
                    to the Tolles-ton school and I suppose they are there yet. We knew the Joe
                    Bailly family well. I used to play with Rose and Frank. I visited them and they
                    visited me at Grandma Gibson's. They were half or part Indian and were
                    beautiful girls and well educated. But their grandmother was real Indian. She
                    lived in a hut by herself, and wore a broadcloth skirt, leggings and a shawl.
                    She was swarthy and had straight, black hair, but was rather nice looking. Most
                    of the Indians had clear-cut features. A half breed French and Indian lived near
                    them with the Indians. His name was Jean Baptiste Clooehie– we called
                    him "Clookie." A man in 
                        Chicago
                     by the name of C. D. Wicker married one of the Bailly girls and
                    took a fancy to the half-breed. He arranged to have him stay with my
                    mother-in-law at the 
                        Gibson
                     Inn, a mile or two east of Tolles-ton, where 
                        Gary
                     is. He lived there for twenty odd years and died when he was about
                    ninety years old. He was buried in 
                        Tolleston
                    . That was in 1864. He was a fine old fellow and everybody liked
                    him. The Indians were nice to you if you were nice to them, but it
                    didn't do to anger them.
            Ernest Hohman married an Englishwoman and kept a stage where 
                        Hammond
                     stands. It was north of the river. 
                        Gibson
                     station, near there, was named after my father-in-law's
                    brother. He had a farm between 
                        Gibson
                     and 
                        Hammond
                    .
            George Tolle, a man who manufactured surgical instruments, invested a good deal
                    in land around here, and built a house near where Lewis A. Bryan's
                    place is. 
                        Tolleston
                     was named after him.
            My mother-in-law, Anna Maria Gibson, kept a stage house where the Froebel school
                    building stands. It was called the 
                        Gibson
                     Inn. She first went there in 1837, and her husband, Thomas Gibson,
                    built the inn in 1837 or 'S8. He came from 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , in 1835. The hotel was a good, two-story, hewn
                    low building, which he built on the forty-acres. It faced east on the old wagon
                    road about where Madison street is, ns near as I can remember. It was a little
                    north-east of where the school building stands. I couldn't say how many
                         feet from it, but it was right close
                    by. The barns stood about where the building is. The inn was close to 
                        Gibson
                     Run, a small creek, and there was another small stream near there.
                    There were no other buildings nearer than'at Miller's (Miller
                    station) and 
                        Tolleston
                    . They sold out during the stock yards' boom. The tavern
                    was still standing in 1861 but was torn down shortly after.
            The stage route ran from 
                        Detroit
                     to 
                        Michigan City
                    , from 
                        Michigan City
                     to 
                        Gary
                    , or where 
                        Gary
                     is now, and from here to 
                        Chicago
                    . The drivers would come from 
                        Michigan City
                     to "Mother" 
                        Gibson
                    's inn–we called mother-in-law,
                    "Mother." They generally got their dinner there, then came to
                    our place at 
                        Hegewisch
                     for supper, then went to the Five-Mile house, near Douglas
                    monument; that was called 
                        Chicago
                     then. The stage crossed the 
                        Michigan
                     Central about where Madison street is in 
                        Gary
                     and then ran to 
                        Hammond
                    . They kept four and sometimes six horses on the stage.
            When I picked huckleberries around here there were no houses, except the 
                        Gibson
                     inn. We lived in a two-story house where the 
                        Tolleston
                     station stands. My husband got fifty dollars a month, wood for
                    heating, light and rent, as station agent for the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     Central railroads. Lewis Kanothe came out in 1858 or '59
                    and started a little grocery at 
                        Tolleston
                    ; then Charles Kunert and George Wendt came. Mr. Kunert bought and
                    sold huckleberries and made a lot of money on them. I have caught pickerel and
                    black bass right where the 
                        Gary
                     hotel stands. There was a slough, or swamp, there that was fed by a
                    stream from Long lake, near Miller. It didn't cost much to live them;
                    we had fresh milk, butter and cream, cranberries, honey from wild bees, mallards
                    and other game.
            In the early part of 1865 I had company at 
                        Tolleston
                     and had cooked potatoes for dinner. I put the parings in a pail and
                    set them on a bench back of the house. Pretty soon we heard some bumping and
                    knocking against the side of the house and I went out to see what the matter
                    was. A deer had been attracted to the salt in the potatoes and put his head in
                    the bucket to get at them. His horns had got fast against the bale and he
                    couldn't get out. He shook his head, then started to run with the pail
                    still sticking. He jumped the  high board
                    fence and the pail came off. He ran for the woods, but my husband started after
                    him with a gun and soon brought the deer back. As late as in 1865 he took a
                    vacation from the railroad and hunted deer from September to April. He shot
                    eighteen, and they were all killed around here and where 
                        Gary
                     stands. He showed me where he killed one right where the
                        Lake Shore station was built. He killed his last in
                    1880 on this side of 
                        Michigan City
                    . It happened to be on Thanksgiving day, and it seemed that every
                    one wanted to see the deer. He sold it to Mr. Brinkman, a market man, and he
                    gave it to the state. The head is mounted at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and there is a plate under it which tells when and where it was
                    killed.
            I don't think there is a foot of ground around here that I
                    haven't tramped over to pick huckleberries, and little did I think then
                    that such a fine city as 
                        Gary
                     would ever be built on those hills and swamps.
            MRS. HENRIETTA E. GIBSON
            
            MRS. MARY VINCENT, PIONEER OP LAKE COUNTY (December 31, 1921)
            I was born at Deep river and have lived in 
                        Lake county
                     all my life–eighty-two years. My father, John Wood, was
                    born in 1800 and died at Deep river in 1883. He came from
                            
                  Salem, Massachusetts
               , in 1835, to
                    Wood's mills, three miles west of Ainsworth, 
                        Lake county
                    . He had a saw mill and a grist mill; that is why they called the
                    place Wood's mills. He built a log cabin in 1835 and went back to 
                        Massachusetts
                     and brought the family out. The family came by way of 
                        Detroit
                    , and from there to 
                        Michigan City
                     by stage. Friends brought them to Deep river,
                    a distance of twenty-five miles, and it took them two days. Daniel and Nathan
                    Lowe lived at 
                        Michigan City
                    ; they were nephews of my father.
            
               
                        Michigan City
                     was then the city of the west, and they expected it to be the
                    greatest. They also expected Liverpool to be a great city, and my grandfather,
                    Pattee, and my father bought lots there for $250 each. They
                    didn't think much of 
                        Chicago
                     then. On the way from 
                        Michigan City
                     to Deep river we stayed over night with a
                    family by the name of Wolff.
            
            The roads were bad and we had to cross a bridge about a mile long, south of
                    Baillytown. Father and mother knew the Joseph Bailly family well and often
                    stopped there. There was another family by the name of Dillingham that they
                    knew.
            There was only Indians around Deep river, and we had no near
                    white neighbors. It was all hazel brush around 
                        Valparaiso
                    , and but one man lived there. He was a sorl; of hermit. Solon
                    Robinson was at Crown Point. There was a tavern four miles west of us, south of
                    Lake station (now known as 
                        East Gary
                    ) and between Wood's mills and 
                        Centerville
                     (now Merrillville). It was kept by Mr. Pierce. The 
                        Gibson
                     house is the only building I remember of being where 
                        Gary
                     is now. It was along the stage line.
            They used to run a stage from LaPorte to 
                        Chicago
                    . Our place was on what is now known as the Lincoln
                    highway– the state road running to Joliet. We always took the stage
                    to 
                        Chicago
                    . There was a corduroy road that crossed a marsh at 
                        Westville
                    , nine miles east of 
                        Valparaiso
                    . They paid toll to travel from 
                        Michigan City
                     to 
                        Westville
                    . In about 1851 we all went down to Lake station to see the first
                    train come in. It was on the 
                        Michigan
                     Central, and people came from miles to see it. I remember it well,
                    for I was ten years old at the time. There was a small hotel there then, and I
                    believe it is still standing.
            There was a tribe of Indians at 
                        Michigan City
                     and they often came out to Deep river to hunt
                    and trap. In about 1841 or '42 about five hundred came through
                        Deep river. They were Pottawatamies. They were moved
                    out west and they stopped near us for two days to rest and to let the squaws do
                    their washing. There were several guards with them. One of the officers stayed
                    with us while they camped there.
            When 
                        California
                     was opened up there were lines and lines of covered wagons passing
                    our place from early morning until late at night. They came from 
                        Michigan
                     and different states. Many of the travelers stopped and camped near
                    us, and would come to the house to get water and supplies.
            My grandfather, Moses Wood, of 
                  Andover, Massachusetts
               , fought in the Revolution, and was at the
                    Battle of 
                        Lexington
                    . My ancestor, John Wood, came from 
                        England
                    , and settled in 
                  Lynn, Massachusetts
               , in 1629.
            MRS. MARY VINCENT
            
            
            EARLY DAYS IN LAKE COUNTY (January 18, 1922)
            My father, Charles Kunert, was born in 
                        Prussia
                     in 1829, and came here from Spring Valley, 
                        Illinois
                    , in about 1856. He was the first postmaster in 
                        Tolleston
                    .
            He used to walk to 
                        Chicago
                     and exchange blueberries for groceries. He was married to Augusta
                    Aurich and there were ten children: Emily was the oldest, then Ernest, William
                    C, Carolyn, Mary, George, Henrietta, Louise, Clara, Arthur, Walter and Charles.
                    There are nine living. I was born the third of January, 1864, here at the corner
                    of Taft and Ninth avenue.
            The 
                        Gibson
                     tavern was at Fourteenth and 
                        Madison
                    . Crone had a tavern a mile east of 
                        Gibson
                     station; the next was Hoh-man's, at 
                        Hammond
                    ; the next Reese's, at 
                        Hegewisch
                    , at what they called the Indian ridge. They said there was quite an
                    Indian reservation on the ridge years ago. There were swamps and forests all the
                    way from 
                        Hegewisch
                     to 
                        South Chicago
                    . The 
                        Gibson
                     tavern was just about on the southeast corner of what is now
                    Madison street and Fourteenth avenue. I remember real well of the old tavern. It
                    was a plain building, and, if I remember correctly, the bottom was made of logs
                    and the top was frame. It faced east, to the best of my recollection. It stood
                    about three hundred feet west of 
                        Gibson
                     run, and was torn down in about 1869 or '70. The run was
                    just about where 
                        Jefferson
                     street is. It got its water from the sloughs and run northwest and
                    emptied into the Calumet. The other branch they called 
                        Gibson
                     run came through 
                        Tolleston
                     between Garfield and Grant street, and it run from Eleventh avenue
                    to Roosevelt and Seventeenth.
            From 1876 to 1884 I did most of my hunting in what is now the first and second
                    subdivision of 
                        Gary
                    , or, rather, east of 
                        Broadway
                    . In them days I used to hunt for market, and my main stands were
                    just east of the 
                        Gary
                     hotel, about where 
                        Broadway
                     is, where the 
                        Delaware
                     hotel stands, and about where the Emerson school is. The ponds,
                    there is where I did most of my hunting. It was all hunting with muzzle-loaders.
                    When I got thirty ducks a day father came after me with a wagon and got me. I
                    used to sell the mallards in 
                        Chicago
                     for ninety cents to a dollar and fifteen cents a dozen. I  averaged easily thirty-six a day; I know
                    days that I got seventy. The upper end of the slough where the 
                        Gary
                     hotel is was the best place for hunting. There was about eight to
                    ten feet of water, and on both sides of the slough there was a bed of rice about
                    thirty feet wide, and the rest was smart weed–that was great feed for
                    the ducks. At the other places there was rice and smart weed, and a good many
                    oak trees, and the ducks fed on the acorns. I killed forty-eight in one day in
                    1906 at about Sixth and 
                        Virginia
                     streets. I went out in the forenoon and killed the limit and then I
                    went out again in the afternoon. I have seen deer here. They used to tell about
                    a big oak tree at 
                        Gibson
                    's place at Ninth and 
                        Cleveland
                     where they could see three or four deer hanging most any day. 
                        Gibson
                     shot lots of them around here.
            I was out in 1870 with Mr. August Elser. He killed one north of Aetna on the
                        Grand Calumet river and another about where the Coke
                    plant is, in 
                        Gary
                    . I have the heads of both of these mounted. There was John Becker,
                    August Keck, Ernest Harms and Herman Kirchoff in the hunting party. There was
                    one more killed after this in the pineries near Pine station, by John
                    Becker–that was in 1872 or '73. There were plenty of quail
                    and partridges.
            I was superintendent of the 
                        Tolleston
                     club of 
                        Chicago
                     from 1889 to 1897. There was a hunting club along the
                        Little Calumet river that started with the following
                    members: August Elser, John Becker, George Stolley, James Ewen and Dan Owsley.
                    The men who came from 
                        Chicago
                     came out to these men's places to hunt, and in 1868, I
                    think it was, they started the 
                        Tolleston
                     club of 
                        Chicago
                    . The first superintendent was Daniel Hall, of 
                        Chicago
                    , then Alexander McDougal, Edward Savage, James French, Willard
                    West, myself, Frank Sommers, Ed. Brennan and George Haecker.
            The grounds were practically owned by the club. In the first place they bought
                    forty acres, then they got in a man by the name of Alexander, who owned the
                    ground surrounding the tract. They had his consent to dig the canal. After his
                    death they got possession of his farm of 320 acres. Their holdings extended from
                    what is now Chase street west to Clark, north to Twenty-fifth and south to the
                    meander line. There was a meander line on the north side and one on the  south side of the river. The government
                    laid that out as swamp lands, and it couldn't be sold for any other
                    purpose. Some people's land extended beyond the meander line; and the
                    club bought that from the owners and some they took by squatters rights. Quite a
                    little of this land went into litigation, for instance sections nineteen and
                    twenty, with John Cluff, father of John Burns, which suit they lost to Cluff;
                    section twenty-one, with John Gunzenhouser, which was won by the club. Several
                    other adjoining property owners had suits with the club, but the club won on all
                    of them.
            I took charge of the club on the first day of January, ana at about that time
                    there were several big battles between poachers and watchmen. In 1893 James
                    Conroy, head gamekeeper, and John Cleary were killed by Al Looker at John
                    Hargen's saloon. In 1894 Dick Stone, one of the guards, was killed on
                    the marsh. In 1896, when John Cluff won the suit, a battle raged between the
                    farmer boys south of the river in which Theodore Prott had his knee cap shot off
                    and Frank Kostic, a farmer boy, was shot through the lungs. Lawrence Traeger, a
                    watchman for Frank Whitlock, was shot, but Dr. Senn, Dr. Miller and Dr. Reynolds
                    happened to be out from 
                        Chicago
                     and they attended to him right there in the swamps, and he got all
                    right. Barney Whitlock and Charles Blackburn, guards, were sent to prison.
                    Barney got six months and a five-hundred-dollar fine, and Charley went to 
                        Jeffersonville
                     for two to fourteen years, but was out in fourteen or fifteen
                    months.
            Frank Whitlock was head gamekeeper of the marsh and I was superintendent of the
                    house–they always had two superintendents. There was lots of small
                    skirmishes that were never recorded. I know of a number of instances. The Nimitz
                    brothers, John and Henry, were the most persistent of all the poachers.
            In 1894 was one of the greatest years for duck hunting that there was on the
                    marsh, according to the reports from all the members who had been going there
                    since 1896. In the 70's there was a good many canvasback and redhead;
                    and in the 80's and 90's there was more mallard, pintail and
                    bluing teal; there were also bluebill, spoonbill, gadwall, widgeon, green
                    wigdeon and green-wing teal. I knew of one swan and  one pelican killed in 1885 or '86. They
                    were killed by the club members.
            On the 27th day of October, 1894, F. A. Howe, president of the club, killed 143
                    ducks, mostly mallards; J. M. Glispie killed 117, R. M. Fair, a partner of 
                        Marshall
                    ' Fields, killed 75 green head mallards in the morning and
                    took the 11 o'clock train back to 
                        Chicago
                     with his ducks. I went out all day and killed 198 ducks and two
                    geese.
            Some might think this a fish story but the facts are right on record at the club
                    house. I resigned from the 
                        Tolleston
                     club in January, 1908, and went into business in the general store
                    here in 
                        Tolleston
                    . I sold out in the fall of 1899 ana went to work as game warden, in
                    1901. I was put in as traveling deputy commissioner on fish and game for the
                    state by Z. T. Sweeney, state commissioner. I resigned in February, 1905, to
                    fill the unexpired term of August Conrod, as township trustee of Calumet
                    township. The term expired January 1, 1908. Then I went into the real estate
                    business and stayed in that three years. I am now employed with the 
                        United States
                     Steel company.
            WILLIAM KUNERT
                    Former Supt. 
                            Tolleston
                         Chm Club.
            
         
         
         
            History of the Know Nothing Party In Indiana
            By CARL FREMONT BRAND, A. M.
            (Continued)
            ORGANIZATION
            
            Thanks to the efforts of that bitter enemy of Know Nothingism, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, we have a knowledge of the inner workings of the
                    Order in Indiana as it existed in the fall and winter of 1854.1 A description of its machinery at this time, when it was in the height
                    of its career, will not fit it at any other period, for it was continually in
                    evolution. The ritual was adopted at the meeting of the Grand Council at 
                        New York City
                     in June, 1854, and revised at the 
                        Cincinnati
                     meeting in November.
            The order was organized on the lodge system in a hierarchy of subordinate,
                    county, state and national councils. Subordinate councils could be established
                    only with the sanction, of the state council. An authorized agent of the latter
                    could confer the first and second degrees upon the applicants for a charter, who
                    must be at least nine in number, and organize them into a council. For the
                    charter the subordinate council paid the sum of two dollars to the state
                    secretary and five dollars for the entire work of the order. Each council was
                    designated by a name and a number. To become a member of the supreme order of
                    the Star Spangled Banner a person must be twenty-one years of age, a believer in
                    the Supreme Being, a protestant, born of protestant parents within the limits of
                    the jurisdiction of the 
                        United States
                    , reared under protestant influence and not united in marriage with
                    a Catholic wife. Candidates were admitted by ballot; five black balls excluding
                    an applicant from the first degree and three from the second. Each council
                    elected its own officers, which consisted of a president, vice-president,
                    instructor, secretary, treasurer, marshal, chaplain, inside and outside
                    sentinels and sometimes 
                  
                     1 The complete ritual, copied from the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Sentinel, September 18, 1854, is given in the
                        appendix.
               
                     a judge advocate and a number of
                        solicitors.2 The president presided over the council and
                    had sole charge of the charter and ritual of the order, which were never to be
                    out of his possession except when necessary for a session of the council. He was
                    the executive head of the body and had charge, of all political work in the
                    district over which the council had authority.3
            
            The membership was organized in degrees. All persons elected to membership were
                    eligible for the first degree, to which admission was gained by taking the
                    obligation of that degree.4 This oath was designed to
                    control the voter, who pledged himself to comply with the will of the majority
                    even though it conflicted with his personal preference, and not to vote for any
                    man for office who was not of native, protes-tant birth. Above the first degree
                    was the second, to which a member must belong to be eligible to office in the
                    order, or to command its support for office in the community. The applicant
                    pledged himself that, if elected to any public office, he would remove all
                    foreigners or aliens from office and in no case would appoint such to any
                    position of trust. The third degree, introduced at the 
                        Cincinnati
                     convention, has already been referred to. Its purpose was to
                    control the national policy of the order; to make the preservation of the 
                        Union
                     one of its main objects.
            The county council was composed of one delegate from each subordinate council
                    within the county and an additional delegate for every fifty members. At least
                    three subordinate councils with an aggregate membership of one hundred were
                    necessary for the formation of a county council. The president of the county
                    council was ex officio the proxy of the president of the state
                    council in his county. Every county council was required to obtain a seal from
                    the corresponding secretary of the state council for which the sum of five
                    dollars was paid. The device on the seal was the American eagre.8
            
            The state council was composed of one delegate elected by each county council,
                    and each delegate was entitled to one 
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Chapman's Chanticleer, October 5, 1854.
                  
                     3 See appendix for Constitution of subordinate
                            councils.
                  
                     4 The oaths are given in the ritual in the
                            appendix.
                  
                     5 See constitution of state council and orders of
                            board of officers in the appendix.
               
                     vote with an additional vote for every five
                    hundred members within the county which he represented. The officers consisted
                    of a president, secretary, treasurer, chaplain, marshal and sergeant-at-arms.
                    The president supervised the work of expansion. He appointed one proxy for each
                    district in the state, which corresponded territorially to the eleven
                    congressional districts, and through these proxies, directed the policy of the
                    order. These proxies kept the president in touch with all sections of the state.
                    The other officers of the state council and the presidents of the county
                    councils also had the powers of proxies. The meetings of the state council were
                    held annually. At these annual sessions the delegates to the grand council were
                    elected by ballot for a term of one year.6
            
            The highest body in the Know Nothing system was the grand council of the 
                        United States
                    . This was a representative body composed of thirteen delegates from
                    each state, chosen by the state councils, with five delegates from each
                    territory or district. In the nomination of candidates for president and
                    vice-president of the 
                        United States
                    , each state cast the same number of votes as it had in both houses
                    of congress. Thirty-two delegates, representing thirteen states, constituted a
                    quorum. The grand council had power to fix the signs, passwords and all matters
                    concerning the secret ritual and decided what should be the national policy of
                    the order. The officers, a president, vice-president, corresponding secretary,
                    recording secretary and two sentinels, were elected annually by ballot. All
                    officers and delegates were required to be full degree members of the
                    organization. The sessions of the grand council were held annually. The officers
                    were salaried and the delegates received three dollars per day for their
                    attendance and mileage. Each state, district or territorial council paid the sum
                    of four cents per annum for each member into the national treasury of the
                        order.7
            
            Like other secret societies, the Know Nothing lodge had its own form of council
                    procedure. This included the use of passwords, signs, grips, signals of
                    distress, test formulae, and 
                  
                     6 See the constitution of the state council,
                            orders of board of officers, and general rules and regulations in the
                            appendix.
                  
                     7 See the constitution of the grand council and
                            general rules and regulations in the appendix.
               
                     rallying cries. There were special
                    formalities for entering or leaving a meeting, and an elaborate initiation
                    ceremonial. All meetings were opened with prayer. At ordinary sessions the
                    members sat together as a first degree council. Separate sessions of the second
                    degree members might be held after the adjournment of the first degree council.
                    Probably there was also a third degree council session.8 So
                    far it differed little from other secret orders, but the peculiar characteristic
                    of the Know Nothing system was the fact that it sought to conceal the personnel
                    of its membership. It tried to keep absolutely all knowledge of the order hidden
                    from the outside world. To this end the time and place of the meeting's
                    were kept secret. The notice for a meeting was given by scattering right angled
                    triangular pieces of paper about the streets. An inquirer would ask a brother,
                    "Hate you seen Sam today?" It was from this password that the
                    order received the nickname of "Sam." A piece of paper of the
                    same shape, but red in color, signified suspected danger, and the brethern would
                    assemble prepared to meet it.9 The name of the society was
                    disclosed to second degree members only. First degree members could truthfully
                    claim to "Know Nothing" of the organization. Secrecy on every
                    point was imposed on them. To avoid the questioning of curious outsiders, they
                    professed ignorance of all matters pertaining to the society, for which they
                    were dubbed "Know Nothings," in popular speech, and under that
                    name they have been known ever since.
            The political work of the order was divided between the subordinate and the
                    higher councils. The subordinate councils were designed to control the smallest
                    political areas. Each subordinate council in every corporate city, town or
                    township elected one delegate, with an additional delegate for every additional
                    fifty members of the council. These delegates met and nominated candidates for
                    city, town and township offices. The councils had free expression so far as the
                    instruction of delegates was concerned, but once the latter decided the policy
                        
                  
                     8 Scisco, Political Nativism in 
                                    New York
                                
                     , 101.
                  
                     9 " 'What's the matter
                            with Sam'–The streets this morning were covered with
                            triangular pieces of red paper, which, we believe, according to
                            Sam's dictionary, means that there is trouble." 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, April 4, 1855. Se also the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 5, 1855.
               
                     to be carried out, their decision was
                    binding. Failure to obey would bring down the discipline of the order on the
                    offending members.10
            
            Likewise the county council nominated candidates for county offices. The
                    political power of the state council was limited to the selection of candidates
                    for state offices, and of state electors to be supported by members of the
                    order. Candidates for congress were nominated by district councils. The
                    constitution of the grand council gave it no power to nominate candidates for
                    president and vice-president of the 
                        United States
                    . When a national ticket was to be put in the field the grand
                    council reorganized as a national convention.
            The order issued no formal platform before 1855, but its objects were kept
                    continually before the members by means of literature and speeches.12
            
            Such was the organization of the order in the period of its greatest vigor. The
                    system was designed to concentrate the control of the voters in the hands of a
                    strong executive, so as to carry out the policy as decided by a few. How nicely
                    it worked in 1854 has been shown. But such a system was bound to fail. The fear
                    of the discipline of the order was in itself not sufficient to suppress
                    individualism, and in the struggle the system had to bend and then break up
                    altogether.
            NATIONALISM AND SLAVERY
            
            The state legislature of 1855 was known as the "Know-Nothing"
                    legislature, because of the large number of Know Nothings in it.1 A bill was introduced which proposed an amendment to the state
                    constitution limiting the right of suffrage to those who were citizens of the 
                        United States
                    , either by birth or by naturalization; but it never progressed
                    beyond a second reading. The fear of offending the foreigners 
                  
                     10 See constitution of subordinate councils, Art.
                            VIII, in the appendix. Scisco. Political Nativism in 
                                    New York
                                . 104-G.
                  
                  
                     12 " 'The Know Nothing'
                            is the name of a new book that has just been published. It is a story
                            without preface, introduction, table of contents, page or chapter
                            headings, or anything to indicate its character or subject, except the
                            ominous 'Know Nothing'. Large editions, one after
                            another, will probably disappear without anybody's
                            knowledge." This article from the 
                                Bedford
                            
                            
                                White River Standard
                            , January 11, 1855, gives an idea of the character of Know Nothing
                            literature.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, March 2, 1855.
               
                     was still too great to permit the passage
                    of any distinctively nativist legislation.2
            
            The Know Nothing movement in Indiana had reached its crest in the fall of 1854.
                    As the slavery question gradually took precedence in the political world, Know
                    Nothingism waned in importance. In vain they fought to keep nativism foremost.
                    The discussion of the slavery question was forbidden. The Americans of the north
                    were to stand by their brethern of the south as co-workers in a common cause.3 The anti-slavery agitation had already divided the Baptist
                    and Methodist churches into two parts–a forcible illustration of the
                    deep-seated hostility which already existed between the sections. It was
                    depriving the people of all their national sentiment and replacing it with the
                    fanaticism and bigotry of sectionalism.4 The third or
                    "Union" degree embodied this nationalist doctrine and we have
                    seen its disastrous results upon the councils in Indiana.
            The 
                        Union
                     degree gave currency to the belief that the south was rushing into
                    the order with the hope of controlling its action. It was thought they were
                    planning to ally the south with the native labor of the north against the
                    immigrants who were anti-slavery in the main.5
            
            From its origin the order in Indiana had been opposed to the further extension of
                    slavery. They vigorously refuted the charge that Know Nothingism paralyzed
                    anti-slavery sentiment. They pointed to the results of the state elections in
                    the north to disprove the assertion. Against this strong sentiment the ignoring
                    policy was powerless.6
            
            The withdrawal of the members of Free Soil sympathies continued during the early
                    part of 1855. A struggle ensued between the factions, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, Berry Sulgrove, editor, upholding the anti-slavery
                    policy and the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Tribune, 
                        Milton
                     Gregg, editor, the union policy. The anti-slavery contention was
                    that the American party7 might 
                  
                     2
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, December. 14, 1858.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, December 18, 1854.
                  
                     4 Whitney, Defense of the American
                                Policy, 211.
                  
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 12, June 6, 1855. 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Standard, December 14, 1854.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, February 12, 1855.
                  
                     7 The Know Nothing organization and doctrines
                            began to be known as the American Party and Americanism, respectively,
                            during the early months of 1855. As the party entered national politics
                            the need of a more dignified name than "Know Nothing"
                            was felt.
               
                     gain great strength, win a few victories,
                    even elect a president and gain control of congress, but its first infidelity to
                    freedom would be the signal for its overthrow. Whenever the Know Nothings had
                    fallen in with the anti-slavery current in the free states, they had been almost
                    uniformly successful, but to array themselves against that sentiment, or to
                    ignore the question altogether would mean an inevitable defeat. Any party
                    ignoring the question was doomed to be ignored itself.8
            
            The national Americans of Indiana were as a rule as much opposed to slavery
                    extension as the opposing faction. Richard W. Thompson, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and 
                        Milton
                     Gregg, of 
                        New Albany
                    , both declared they had no sympathy with slavery whatever and
                    avowed their opposition to its extension.9 But they held
                    that the great principles of Americanism should take precedence over the mere
                    sectional issue. "One of the cardinal principles of the party in
                    Indiana and the North," said Gregg in the Tribune,
                    "is peace, prosperity and a desire to sink or ignore issues that
                    disturb the harmony between North and South."10
                    Such a policy would never abolitionize the order nor would it make it
                        pro-slavery.11 The 
                        Aurora
                    
                    Standard thought the course of the American party should be, 
                        Union
                     on the American question but on the slavery they (i. e., the
                    different sections) must act apart.12
            
            The result of the controversy was that Americanism thereafter received but a half
                    hearted support from the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal and the anti-slavery faction, who leaned more and more
                    toward "straight" Republicanism. But the breach was not yet
                    final.
            American principles were freely and openly expressed as the need of secrecy
                    disappeared. Newspapers were started with the avowed purpose of advocating Know
                    Nothingism. The Daily American, started at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , took for its motto, "Sam," brief but enormously
                        expressive.13 Many other papers 
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 27, April 10, May 24, 1855.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, March 18, 1855.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 24, 1855.
                  
                     11
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, May 16, 1855.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 6, 1855.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, February 26, 1855.
               
                     now came out openly in support of the
                        Americans.14 Later in the year the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Republican was purchased by the Know Nothing state council
                    with the purpose of making it a state organ. Reverend Samuel P. Crawford, P.
                    former Methodist minister of Dublin and the chaplain of the national council,
                    was made the editor.15 In addition to the usual
                    anti-Catholic and anti-foreign planks, the platforms put forward by these papers
                    usually contained a specific plank advocating the extension of the term of
                    residence before naturalization to twenty-one years, the same period of time
                    that a native American had to spend here before he became a voter.18
            
            The enemies of the Know Nothings attempted to imitate that feature of the
                    movement which they had denounced as most objectionable. Early in 1855 a secret
                    political society, popularly known as the "Sag Nichts" or
                    "Say Nothings," was founded in 
                  Newport, Kentucky
               ,17 or according to
                    another account, in 
                        Ohio
                    .18 Its object was to protect Catholics and
                    foreigners and to secure their rights, especially at the polls. 
                  
                     14 The list of Know Nothing papers at this time
                            included the 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, 
                                Vevay
                            
                            Reveille, 
                                Aurora
                            
                            Standard, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Times, 
                                Bedford
                            
                            Standard, 
                                Salem
                            
                            True Flag, 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal, 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Gazette, 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Courier, 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            American, 
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Banner, Rising Sun Visitor, 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Express, 
                                Jeffersonville
                            
                            Republican, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Republican. Moderate supporters of Know
                            Nothingism, hut now more Republican than American, were the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, Newcastle Courier,
                            Brook-ville Indiana American.
                  
                  
                     15
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Jeffersonian, July 5, 1855.
                  
                            16 Following is a platform of principles
                            (summarized) printed by the 
                                Bedford
                            
                            
                                White River Standard
                            , May 31, 1855, as the universally acknowledged principles of
                            Americanism at the time (1855). They are also markedly anti-slavery in
                            character. 
                        Opposition to all forms of tyranny over the mind or body of
                                    man.
                        Principles and character, not birthplace, are the true
                                    standard of qualification for citizenship.
                        No adherent of any foreign power, either political or
                                    politico-ecclesiastical, should be eligible to naturalization.
                        Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as
                                    punishment for crime, should exist in the territories. No more
                                    slave States should be admitted.
                        Candidates for office should favor resisting the aggressions
                                    of slavery, popery and intemperance.
                        All officers, as far as practicable, should be chosen by
                                    direct vote of the people.
                        Persons of foreign birth should not be admitted to the ballot
                                    till they become citizens according to the Constitution and laws
                                    of the 
                                        United States
                                    .
                     
                            See also the 
                                    Bedford
                                
                                
                                    White River Standard
                                 for March 29, April 12, May 3, June 14, October 5, 1855; 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Journal, May 1, July 11, September 20, 1855; for
                                expressions of American principles.
                        
                  
                     17
                            
                                Bedford
                            
                            
                                White River Standard
                            , May 24, 1855.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, August 22, 1855.
               
                     Originally it consisted of foreigners, but
                    was later joined by many Old Line Democrats and Whigs. Several such associations
                    were formed in Indiana.19 It seems never to have amounted to
                    much politically and the name "Sag Nichts" soon became a
                    contemptuous term by which all Democrats were designated.
            As the spring elections drew near the Democrats again made the Know Nothings
                    their chief target. Lieutenant-Governor Willard and Governor Wright resumed
                    their attacks.20 The Democratic convention, held at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , April 19, 1855, was known as the "Anti-Know
                    Nothing" convention.21 To meet the attacks of their
                    opponents the Know Nothings adopted new tactics. If a meeting were called to
                    expose and denounce Know Nothingism it was drowned out by the shouts and yells
                    of the Americans who gathered for that purpose.22 George W.
                    Julian testifies to this fact also.
            This happened in my own county and town, when thousands of
                    men, including many of my old Free Soil brethren, assembled in an organized mob
                    to suppress the freedom of speech; and they succeeded by brute force in taking
                    possession of every building in which their opponents could meet1 and silencing them by savage yells.23
            
            Such proceedings would not have taken place the year before when even the
                    personnel of the Know Nothings was supposed to be secret, but men more openly
                    avowed their connection with the movement at this time.
            The Democrats at 
                        New Albany
                     professed to fear Know Nothing violence in the election. Upon this
                    plea, several of their candidates, William Weir, for mayor; Michael C. Kerr, for
                    city attorney, and Augustus Bradley, for councilman, withdrew and left the field
                    to the Americans.24 In other cities the Know Nothings seem
                    to have repeated their tactics of the previous year. Tickets were formed in
                    secret conclave, renominated by fusion conventions and put out under the name of
                    People's tickets.25 Fusionists not in sympathy with
                    the 
                  
                     19
                            
                                Bedford
                            
                            
                                White River Standard
                            , April 19, 1855. 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, May 30, 1855. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 6, 1855.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, February 23, 1855.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Bedford
                            
                            
                                White River Standard
                            , April 19, 1855.
                  
                     22
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, June 6, 1855.
                  
                     23 Julian, Recollections, 142.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, April 20, 26, 1855.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Jefferaonian, March 29, April 12, 1855.
               
                     Know Nothings might remonstrate against
                    such dictation, but the latter were too strong for them.26
            
            As in 1854 no straight American tickets seem to have been nominated. But their
                    relation to the People's party was clearly recognized, so that their
                    victories were referred to indiscriminately as Know Nothing, Fusion or
                    Republican successes. In the township election at 
                        Indianapolis
                     the Fusion ticket was successful and the result was made known by
                    the jubilant use of the pass word, "Have you seen Sam?"27 A few weeks later their city ticket was defeated.
                    " 'Sam' must have been out picnicing."28 The result was heralded as a Know Nothing defeat.29 But the council was American, which caused it to be known
                    as the Know Nothing council.30
            
            The Know Nothings, i. e., People's Party, carried 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     without opposition. There was little interest there for
                    "Sams" reserved his strength for great occasions.31 "Sam's" ticket carried
                            
                  Terre Haute, Jefferson
               -ville,
                            
                  Lawrenceburg,
                            Lafayette, Logansport, Vevay
               , Green-castle, Laporte and other cities.32 "The Republicans gained over their vote of last
                    fall. Our old line friends will learn by this that Sam is again
                        convalescent."33 The Democrats were successful
                    at 
                  Evansville, Fort Wayne, Columbus, Madison
                and 
                        Rushville
                    .34 A curious feature of the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     election was that the Know Nothings supported and elected an
                    Englishman and a German to office. This event was taken to prove that Know
                    Nothingism was not proscriptive of all foreigners.35
            
            The Americans seemed to be sweeping the country. 
                  New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
                            Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Kentucky
                and the southern states were the 
                  
                     26
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 4, 1855. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 3, 1855.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 3, 1855.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, May 9, 1855.
                  
                     29
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, May 4, 1855.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 18, 1858.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 4, 1855.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Republican, May 10, 1855. 
                                Bedford
                            
                            
                                White River Standard
                            , April 12, 19, 1855. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, April 10, 18, May 4, 7, 1856. 
                                Princeton
                            
                            Democratic Clarion, April 14, 1855. 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, April 10, May 9, 1855. 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, April 3, May 9, 16, 1855.
                  
                     33 Rushville Republican, May 9,
                            1855.
                  
                     34
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, April 3, May 16, 1855. 
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, April 21, 1855.
                  
                     35
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, April 10, 1855.
               
                     scenes of Know Nothing success in state or
                    municipal elections. Attention then centered on the 
                        Virginia
                     election in May. Henry A. Wise, Democratic candidate for governor,
                    made Know Nothingism the issue, and after a vigorous campaign defeated Flourney,
                    the Know Nothing candidate.36 This election marked the high
                    tide of Know Nothingism. Uniformly successful until that time, it was the first
                    of a series of defeats from which the movement never recovered. It was seen that
                    the party in' the south possessed only the old Whig strength, and in
                    reality was little more than that party in disguise. The news of Wise's
                    victory elated the Democracy of Indiana. Jollification meetings were held and
                    the Know Nothings had recourse to their tactics of drowning them out by shouts
                    and yells.37 To show that they were not disheartened the
                    Know Nothings, on May 30, held a meeting at the Bates House, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Henry S. Lane, Godlove S. Orth, Solomon Meredith, Daniel Mace,
                    Schuyler Colfax, Samuel W. Parker, David Kilgore and Erasmus Collins, the
                    secretary of state, were the speakers. "Sam" in Indiana was
                    not dead as a result of the 
                        Virginia
                     election.38
            
            Throughout the north the order was under the control of anti-slavery men, just as
                    it was pro-slavery in the south. It was foreseen that there would be a clash at
                    the next session of the national council, which met in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , June 5, 1855. Every state in the union, also the 
                        District of Columbia
                     and the territory of 
                        Minnesota
                     were represented, most of them by a full delegation of seven. For
                    Indiana, appeared Godlove S. Orth, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , the president of the order in Indiana; James R. M. Bryant, of
                    Williamsport; J. S. Harvey, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; T. D. Allen; Thomas C. Slaughter, of Corydon; Schuyler Colfax,39 of 
                        South Bend
                    ; and Will Cumback, of 
                  
                     36
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 29, 1855.
                  
                     37
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, June 6, 1855.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, June 1, 1855. 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger June 6, 1855.
                  
                     39 Colfax, like many others, afterwards maintained
                            that he was never a member of the Know Nothing organization. But in a
                            letter dated July 3, 1855, to him from E, W. Jackson of Concord, N. H.,
                            the following passage occurs: "You did not seek or solicit an
                            initiation, but as I was authorized to do, I proffered to give you the
                            'work' and on your pledge of secrecy did so."
                            Then, too, only third degree members could be admitted to national
                            councils. Colfax concurred in many Know Nothing doctrines, but
                            disapproved of secrecy, and of making a man's birthplace a test
                            of his Americanism. He was selected as a delegate to the council without
                            his knowledge or consent. He wrote his wife
               
                    
                    
                        Greensburg
                    . In all there were about one hundred fifty delegates. The 
                        District of Columbia
                     voted as a state, equalizing the sections, sixteen to sixteen.40
            
            There was a struggle over the admission of the delegations from 
                        Massachusetts
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                    , the former because of its Free Soil tendencies and the latter
                    because it consisted largely of Catholics. The criticism of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     delegation and of Henry Wilson in particular was bitter, but in the
                    end they were admitted. The Catholics from 
                        Louisiana
                     were rejected.41
            
            On the seventh a banquet was given to the members of the council by the citizens
                    of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , over which Mayor Conrad presided. It was to be
                    "national" in sentiment and anti-slavery was put under the
                    ban. Schuyler Colfax wrote, "A great banquet is to be given to the
                    delegates this afternoon. I have been selected to respond to 'the
                    Press', but it is to be a 'Union-saving' affair, and
                    I shall not go."42
            
            On the eighth a sharp struggle took place for the presidency of the council. E.
                    B. Bartlett, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , was elected over James W. Barker of 
                        New York
                    , who was a candidate for re-election, but was set aside for a man
                    more closely linked with southern interests.43 C. D. Freeman
                    of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , was elected vice-president; J. M. Stephens of 
                        Maryland
                    , recording secretary; C. D. Deshler of 
                        New Jersey
                    , corresponding secretary; H. Crane of Indiana, treasurer (Orth was
                    also voted upon); and H. N. Rugg of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , chaplain, (Rev. Samuel P. Crawford, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was also voted for.)
            All looked forward to the report of the committee on the platform, which
                    consisted of one member from each state. On June 11 two sets of resolutions were
                    reported. In committee, that of the majority received seventeen votes; that of
                    the minority fourteen votes. The former were drawn up by Mr. Burwell, of 
                        Virginia
                    , and submitted by Caleb Lyon, of 
                        New York
                    . They denied the power of congress to abolish 
                   that he feared the order would not come up to his
                            platform–anti-slavery and the admission of protestant
                            foreigners–"and in that case I might better for my
                            own sake in the future be away than here." Hollister, Life of Colfax, 78-80.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 5, 1855.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 11, 1855. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Republican, June 21, 1855.
                  
                     42 Hollister, Life of Colfax,
                            78-79.
                  
                     43 Wilson, Rise and Fall of the Slave
                                Power in America, II, 426.
               
                     slavery in the territories, or to abolish
                    it in the 
                        District of Columbia
                    , and they demanded that the nation should maintain and abide by the
                    existing laws on the subject. The text of the Burwell resolution was as follows:
                        
                        
                     Resolved, That the American party, having arisen upon
                            the ruins and in spite of the opposition of the Whig and Democratic
                            parties, cannot be held in any manner responsible for the obnoxious acts
                            or violated pledges of either;–that the systematic agitation
                            of the slavery question by those parties has elevated sectional
                            hostility into a positive element of political power, and brought our
                            institutions into peril. It has therefore become the imperative duty of
                            the American party to interpose, for the purpose of giving peace to the
                            country and perpetuity to the Union. That as experience has shown it as
                            impossible to reconcile opinions so extreme as those which separate the
                            disputants, and as there can be no dishonor in submitting to the laws,
                            the National Council has deemed it the best guarantee of common justice
                            and of future peace to abide by and maintain the existing laws upon the
                            subject of slavery, as a final and conclusive settlement of that subject
                            in spirit and in substance.
                        
                     Resolved, That regarding it the highest duty to avow
                            these opinions upon a subject so important, in distinct and unequivocal
                            terms, it is hereby declared as the sense of this National Council, that
                            Congress possesses no power under the Constitution to legislate upon the
                            subject of Slavery in the States, or to exclude any State from the 
                                Union
                             because her constitution does or does not recognize the
                            institution of Slavery as a part of her social system; and expressly
                            pretermitting any expression of opinion upon the power of Congress to
                            establish or prohibit Slavery in any Territory. It is the sense of this
                            National Council that Congress ought not to legislate upon the subject
                            of Slavery within the Territories of the 
                                United States
                            , and that any interference of Congress with Slavery as it
                            exists in the 
                                District of Columbia
                             would be a violation of the spirit and intention of the
                            compact by which the State of 
                                Maryland
                             ceded the district to the 
                                United States
                             and a breach of the National Faith.44
                  
                    
            
            The minority report was written by Samuel Bowles, of the 
                        Springfield
                     Republican, who however was not a delegate. and was presented by
                    John W. Foster, of 
                        Massachusetts
                    . It was signed by Schuyler Colfax, for Indiana, and by the
                    representatives of thirteen other states. The text was as follows: 
                        
                     Resolved, That the repeal of the 
                                Missouri
                             Compromise was an infraction of the plighted faith of the
                            Nation, and that it should be restored, and if efforts to that end shall
                            fail, Congress should refuse to admit any State tolerating Slavery which
                            shall be formed out of any 
                        
                           44
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Journal, June 15, 1855.
                     
                             portion of the territory from which
                            that Institution was excluded by that Compromise.45
                  
                    
            
            The debate on the reports began on June 11, and lasted all through the next two
                        days.46 The north and the south were pitted against each
                    other, and for the first time in any political convention the north stood united
                    and firm. 
                        New York
                     alone, because Millard Fillmore and George Law were presidential
                    possibilities, voted with the south. Although the proceedings were supposed to
                    be kept secret, the news of the debate leaked out and were chronicled daily by
                    the newspapers. Henry Wilson, of 
                        Massachusetts
                    ; Will Cumback, of Indiana;47 and Mr. Ford, of 
                        Ohio
                    ; vigorously attacked the majority report. Kenneth Raynor proposed a
                    compromise which failed. All the Indiana delegates present voted against it. The
                    Northern resolutions were rejected by a vote of fifty-one to ninety-two. The
                    Southern were then adopted by a vote of eighty to fifty-nine. This victory of
                    the pro-slavery men came upon June 13.48
            
            The next morning fifty-three of the northern delegates seceded and held a meeting
                    with Henry Wilson as chairman. An Appeal to the People,
                    reported by John W. Foster was adopted. It was as follows: 
                        To the People of the 
                                United States
                            :
                        The undersigned, citizens of various States, assembled at 
                                Philadelphia
                             on the 14th of June, 1855, feel constrained under the
                            existing state of affairs to affirm the following principles:
                        1st. The unconditional restoration of that time honored Compromise, known
                            as the 
                                Missouri
                             Prohibition, which was destroyed in utter disregard of
                            popular will–a wrong no lapse of time can palliate and no
                            plea for its continuance can justify, and that we will use all
                            constitutional 
                        
                           45
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Journal, June 15, 1855.
                        
                           46
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Indiana Republican, June 21, 1855.
                        
                           47
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Journal, June 16, 1855.
                        
                                    
                              48 Following is the vote of the Indiana
                                        delegation on Raynor's proposition, the majority
                                        report and the minority report: 
                                 
                                    
                                    Raynor's
                                    Compromise
                                    Majority Report
                                    Minority Report
                                 
                                 
                                    Orth
                                    No
                                    No
                                    No
                                    Aye
                                 
                                 
                                    Colfax
                                    --
                                    --
                                    --
                                    ---
                                 
                                 
                                    Cumback
                                    --
                                    --
                                    --
                                    ---
                                 
                                 
                                    Slaughter
                                    No
                                    No
                                    No
                                    Aye
                                 
                                 
                                    Harvey
                                    No
                                    No
                                    No
                                    Aye
                                 
                                 
                                    Allen
                                    No
                                    No
                                    No
                                    Aye
                                 
                                 
                                    Bryant
                                    --
                                    --
                                    --
                                    Aye
                                 
                              
                           
                                    From the 
                                            New York
                                        
                                        Times, June 15, 1855. See also the 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        
                                        Journal, June 16,1855.
                                
                     
                             means to maintain a positive
                            guarantee of; that compact until the object for which it was enacted has
                            been consummated by the admission of 
                                Kansas
                             and 
                                Nebraska
                             as free States.
                        2d. That the rights of settlers in territories to the free and
                            undisturbed exercise of the elective franchise guaranteed to them by the
                            laws, under which they are organized should be promptly protected by the
                            National Executive whenever violated or threatened; and that we cannot
                            conscientiously act with those who will not aid us in the correction of
                            these national wrongs and who will not even permit their fair
                            consideration and their full discussion.
                        3d. We further declare our continued and unalterable determination to use
                            all honorable efforts to secure such modification of the naturalization
                            laws, aided by such elevation of public sentiment as will preserve the
                            true interest of the nation, and will guarantee the three vital
                            principles of a Republican Government; SPIRITUAL FREEDOM, A FREE BIBLE
                            and FREE SCHOOLS–thereby promoting the great work of
                            Americanizing America.
                        4th. That we invoke the arm of Legislation to arrest that growing evil
                            the deportation by foreign authorities, of paupers and convicts to our
                            shores, and that as our National Constitution requires the Chief
                            Executive of our country to be of native birth, we deem it equally
                            necessary and important that our diplomatic representatives abroad
                            should also possess no foreign prejudices to bias their judgment or to
                            influence their official action.49
                    
            
            This document was signed by the delegates of thirteen northern states:
                            
                  Massachusetts,
                            New Hampshire, Vermont, Maine, Ohio
               , Indiana, 
                  Michigan, Illinois,
                            Iowa, Rhode
                            Island, Connecticut
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . All of the delegates from Indiana signed it.
            In addition to signing the Appeal to the People, the delegates
                    from Indiana laid before the council the following protest: 
                        The undersigned delegates, representing the Council of the State of
                            Indiana, respectfully protest against the platform adopted by the
                            National Council at its present session, and beg leave to say that in
                            regard to the measure known as the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             bill, neither those within the Council of the State of
                            Indiana, nor the people, have awaited the action of the National Council
                            in order to form their opinions.
                        Their opinions have been formed and avowed. An issue has been made with
                            their political antagonists, and the soundness of those opinions tested
                            in public debate and trial at the ballot box. The edicts of the National
                            Council, however canonical they may be, will be powerless to change
                            those opinions or to reverse the action of the people of Indiana. 
                        
                           49
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Journal, June 20, 1855; 
                                        Wabash
                                    
                                    Intelligencer, June 20, 1855; 
                                        Rockport
                                    
                                    Democrat, June 30, 1855.
                     
                             Always conservative in their
                            opinions and actions; always mindful of the Compromise of the
                            Constitution of the 
                                United States
                            ; ardently devoted to the American Union, they will see with
                            regret the promulgation of a platform by this body which can have no
                            other effect than to increase the fury or the conflagration which the
                            passage of the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             bill has lighted up.
                        The undersigned respectfully express their deliberate conviction that
                            immediately upon the publication of the platform adopted, the Order in
                            the State of Indiana will cease to acknowledge the authority of the
                            National Council; and they respectfully ask that this protest may be
                            received as a termination of their duties as delegates from that State.
                        James R. M. Bryant Godlove S. Orth J. S. Harvey Thos. C. Slaughter T. D.
                            Allen Schuyler Colfax Will Cumback.50
                    
            
            By this protest the personnel of the Indiana delegation was first made known. The
                    presence of some of them in 
                        Philadelphia
                     "on business" had aroused suspicion but they
                    could no longer conceal their connection with the Order.
            On the motion of Godlove S. Orth, a corresponding committee was appointed
                    consisting of one from each of the eleven states represented in the
                    seceders' convention. Orth was placed on the committee as
                    Indiana's representative.51 Most of the northern
                    delegates then left the council.
            The secession of the minority did not prevent the majority from finishing its
                    work. Many northern members remained in their seats and helped complete the
                        platform.52 This proved to be a long document in which
                    the Burwell resolutions were incorporated as the "twelfth
                    section", and under that name they were afterward known in discussions.
                    We shall see the disastrous results of the twelfth section upon the order. The 
                        Union
                     degree had caused the withdrawal of many members from the councils.
                    The pro-slavery twelfth section now led to the formal separation of several
                    state councils from the national council. The council adjourned June 15, 1855.
            The results of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     convention were a distinct shock to the Americans in Indiana. The
                    firm stand of the Indiana delegates met with the approval of the party as a
                        
                  
                     50
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 20, 1855; 
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, June 30, 1855; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, June 27, 1885; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, June 15, 1855.
                  
                     51
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, June 15, 1855.
                  
                     52 Text of the platform is given in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 15, 1855; 
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, June 30, 1855.
               
                     whole. They had voted against every
                    compromise proposed with slavery and under the lead of Colfax, Orth, and Cumback
                    won for the state the name of the "
                        Massachusetts
                     of her section."53
            
            
                    Orth, Cumback, Colfax, Harvey, and Bryant, and all our delegates well merit
                        the thanks of every true hearted friend of freedom in Indiana, for their
                        manly and resolute action.54
                
            The Americans of 
                        Indianapolis
                     met in council June 25 and passed a series of resolutions against
                    slavery domination, approved the action of the northern delegates and endorsed
                    the Indiana protest.53 American, anti-
                        Nebraska
                    , and Republican meetings in many places expressed approval of the
                        seceders.56
                    
                        The course pursued by the delegates from this State, to the Know Nothing
                            National Convention recently held at 
                                Philadelphia
                            , deserves the approbation of anti-slavery men of all
                            parties,
                     ran a resolution of a Republican meeting in 
                        Dearborn county
                    .57
            
            The only notable instances where the Americans seemed to endorse the platform
                    occurred in 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . The American party in the former city58 passed
                    resolutions fully endorsing the platform, twelfth section and all, as did mass
                    meetings in 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        Clark county
                    .59
            
            But a small minority of the American newspapers in the state supported the
                    platform. "We are opposed to the slavery agitation in every
                    form", the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Journal expressed itself, "and we are therefore
                    opposed to the course of the freesoilers 
                  
                     53
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 19, 1855.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 19, 1855.
                  
                            
                        55 Following is a summary of the resolutions
                                given in full by the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Journal of July 6, 1855: 
                           Approved the action of the northern delegates.
                           Rejoiced that the North had resolved to be respected in
                                        its rights.
                           The council would adopt the policy recommended by a State
                                        or Northern Grand Council.
                           Sympathy was expressed for the misrepresented brethren of
                                                
                                 New
                                            York, New
                                            Jersey
                               and 
                                            Pennsylvania
                                        .
                           Resist slavery extension into 
                                            Kansas
                                         and the other territories.
                           The repeal of the 
                                            Missouri
                                         Compromise has released the North from all
                                        obligation to enforce the Fugitive Slave act.
                           The action of the Indiana delegates was fully
                                    approved.
                        
                     
                        
                  
                     56
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 4, 1855; Rushville Republican, July 25, 1855.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 6, 1855.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Bedford
                            
                            
                                White River Standard
                            , July 19, 1855.
                  
                     59
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, July 4, 1855; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, July 4, 1855.
               
                     in the national convention. And yet we do,
                    not believe in yielding to the south one iota more than she can justly and by
                    the constitution claim… The members must be united …. If
                    the freesoilers will not listen to reason…. let them take their
                        course."60 The 
                        Jeffersonville
                    
                    Republican said, "In the national council Indiana was
                    most shamefully misrepresented."61 These two organs
                    headed a short list who followed "Sam's Banner–For
                    the Union, the Whole 
                        Union
                     and Nothing but the Union" and tried to create the
                    impression that "Samuel is All Right, Wide Awake and Standing
                        Up."62
            
            The conservative 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Tribune endorsed the platform, with the exception of the
                    twelfth section. It refused to endorse that section because: it favored
                    acquiescing in the 
                        Nebraska
                     swindle; omitted any expression of the power of congress to
                    prohibit slavery in a territory; declared congress ought not legislate upon the
                    subject of slavery in the territories; and declared, virtually, that the act of
                    1850 by abolishing the slave trade in the 
                        District of Columbia
                     was a breach of national faith.63 The 
                        Bedford
                    
                    
                        White River Standard
                    , a stout advocate of American principles, took somewhat the came stand.
            
                    With the exception of section XII we heartily endorse it … But the
                        twelfth section shall form no part of our political creed. We can never
                        acquiesce in the principle attempted to be established by the repeal of the 
                            Missouri
                         Compromise. We can never submit to the overbearing spirit of
                        the South, exhibited in her efforts to carry slavery into free territory. We
                        can never succumb to the doctrine that Congress has no right to prohibit
                        slavery in the territories or the 
                            District of Columbia
                         … In a word we shall never yield one jot or tittle
                        towards an acknowledgment that slavery is anything but a curse, a blight, an
                        infamy, a shame; and our right to constitutionally blot it from our
                        escutcheons … We expect to cooperate with the great American
                        party … we desire to be left free to entertain our own notions in
                        reference to the twelfth section.64
               
                
            
               
                  60
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Tribune, July 4, 1855; 
                            Bedford
                        
                        
                            White River Standard
                        , July 5, 1855.
               
                  61
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Tribune, July 4, 1855.
               
                  62
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, July 16, 1855. The following papers endorsed the
                        platform: 
                            Evansville
                        
                        Journal, 
                            Jeffersonville
                        
                        Republican, 
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Banner, 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Gazette, 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        American. See 
                            Rockport
                        
                        Democrat, July 21, 1855, and 
                            New Albany
                        
                        Ledger, July 11, 1855.
               
                  63
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Tribune, July 23, 1856.
               
                  64
                        
                            Bedford
                        
                        
                            White River Standard
                        , June 28, 1855.
            
            
            The great majority of American papers whole-heartedly and without reserve gave
                    their support to the action of the Indiana delegation and stood on the minority
                        platform.65 The 
                        Aurora
                    
                    Standard used the following plain and pointed language: 
                        We are sorry to see such a rupture in the party; yet we cannot too highly
                            commend the firmness and faithfulness of the withdrawing
                            members.–They have done right; and even if their action in
                            this matter should cause the downfall of the party they will receive the
                            warmest thanks of Northern men. The time has come when a firm stand must
                            be made against the aggressions of the South, and the American party may
                            as well fall in the breach as any other. They have given us an
                            exhibition of fidelity and firmness never before exhibited by the
                            members of any party, and such as we could not hope to see upon the part
                            of the Old Liners.66
                  
                    
            
            The number of such quotations might be multiplied indefinitely and no doubt they
                    give a true expression of American sentiment.67 They
                    regarded the event as epoch making. The hint expressed in the above quotation
                    that the American party might fall in the anti-slavery struggle was reflected in
                    many other cases. It seemed as though there was but one path of duty for
                    anti-slavery men in Indiana, and that was to stand upon the Fusion platform and
                    labor for the success of that party.68
            
            The action of the Indiana delegates aroused the bitter disapproval of the south.
                    The American party in the state was ignored by their southern brethren who spoke
                    of it as "a rotten limb hewn off from the American party
                    proper" by the 
                  
                     65
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 27, 1855. Other papers, that, like the 
                                Bedford
                            
                            Standard and the 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, wished to keep the slavery issue secondary to
                            Americanism, were the Corydon Argus, Cannelton Reporter and 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Courier. See the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 27, 1855, for extracts from many other
                            papers on this subject.
                  
                     66
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 27, 1855.
                  
                     67 Following is a list of papers of
                            American-Fusion politics that supported the action of the Indiana
                            delegates: 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, 
                                South Bend
                            
                            Register, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Times, 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Express, 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Press, 
                                Decatur
                            
                            Press, 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, 
                                    Fountain
                                 Democrat, Danville Advertiser, 
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier, Laporte Union, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Republican, 
                                Aurora
                             Standard, Rushville Republican, 
                                Park County
                            
                            Republican, 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal, 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier, 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Gazette, 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Vernon Banner, 
                                Valparaiso
                            
                            Observer, 
                                Randolph County
                            
                            Journal, Delphi Journal, 
                                Portland
                            
                            Journal, 
                                Howard
                            
                            Tribune, 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Messenger, 
                                Bedford
                            
                            
                        White River Standard. See the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 27, 1855; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, July 11, 1855; and 
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, July 21, 1855.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 27, 1855, from the Union
                                Herald.
                  
               
                     Grand Council at 
                        Philadelphia
                    .69 They had indeed broken the oath of the third
                    degree by refusing to ignore the slavery question and subordinate every issue to
                    "Unionism."
            While the convention at 
                        Philadelphia
                     was in session, that of a new movement, an offshoot of Know
                    Nothingism, was held. Many of those Know Nothings who had been driven out of the
                    lodges by what seemed to them prescriptive, pro-slavery, third degree movements
                    of the party during the previous winter, had formed a rival organization known
                    as the "Know Somethings."70 It was
                    anti-slavery in character and did not proscribe foreigners.71 The movement strove for national expansion and secured a foothold in
                    several states, but failed to gain any great strength. This party held its
                    convention at 
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               , June 14, 1855. Indiana
                    was represented by H. W. Clark and Rawson Vaile, editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, a former Free Soiler and Know Nothing. The Know
                    Somethings hoped that the seceders from the 
                        Philadelphia
                     convention would join their ranks, but they were disappointed. They
                    then voted to dispense with secrecy; put out a platform in which anti-slavery,
                    nativist, and temperance planks were prominent; and decided not to act
                    independently in politics but with the Republican party.72
            
            A state Anti-Slavery convention was held at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , June 27, 1855. The question of Know Nothingism was injected into
                    the discussion by George W. Julian, who made it the chief theme of his
                        address.73 He opposed all cooperation with the Know
                    Nothings because of their non-committal attitude upon the slavery question and
                    denounced them as proscriptive and intolerant. S. S. Harding, of 
                        Ripley county
                    , and Rawson Vaile replied, defending the Know Nothings against the
                    charges. The approval manifested by the convention showed that a large
                    proportion of those present were either members of the order or sympathizers
                    with them.74
            
            In the early part of 1855, a more liberal spirit began to pervade Know
                    Nothingism. The Know Nothing Crusader, 
                  
                     69
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Nov. 14, 1855.
                  
                     70
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, June 14, 1855.
                  
                     71
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 24, 1855.
                  
                     72
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Jeffersonian, June 21, 1855; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, June 14, 16, 1855.
                  
                     73
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 18, 20, 1855; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Union, March 3, 1857.
                  
                     74
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 28, July 2, 1855; Julian, Speeches, 113.
               
                    
                    
                        New York
                    
                    Express, 
                        Philadelphia
                    
                    Sun, and other American newspapers began a campaign to do away
                    with secrecy.75 The novelty of the mystery had worn away and
                    what may have seemed necessary to the movement during its weakness was not
                    needful in its strength. The order in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Delaware
                     declared for an open organization.76 The first
                    open meeting was held at Stuyvesant Institute in 
                        New York City
                    . After an open declaration of American principles it was adjourned
                    with "three cheers for the first full length view of Sam." The
                    Know Nothings felt that one of the principal objections to their order was
                        removed.77
            
            At the same time the doors were opened to protestant foreigners more freely than
                        ever.78 Even the Catholic test was abolished in
                            
                  Virginia, South Carolina
               , and other
                    states. It had been ignored in 
                        Louisiana
                     and 
                        California
                     from the beginning.79 The only local move
                    toward admitting Catholics was in 
                        Knox county
                    . In view of the three hundred French Catholics in and about 
                        Vincennes
                    , who had always voted the Whig ticket, there was an agitation to
                    dispense with the religious test.80 This liberalizing
                    tendency was reflected in the action of the next state council.
            As in the previous year the state council was called to meet upon the eve of the
                    Fusion convention. The Americans evidently intended to repeat their tactics and
                    again secure control of the Fusion party. The convention of the latter was
                    called to meet at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Friday, July 13, 1855, the anniversary of the Ordinance of 1787,
                    for the purpose of a more thorough organization. Affixed to the call were the
                    signatures of Godlove S. Orth, still president of the Know Nothing state
                    council, Will Cumback, 
                        Milton
                     Gregg, William J. Peaslee, David Kilgore, Schuyler Colfax, and many
                    other prominent Americans.81
            
            The American state council met at the same place July 11-12, 1855. It was
                    generally understood that an attempt 
                  
                     75
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, March 28, 1855; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, March 28, 1855.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Bedford
                            
                            
                                White River Standard
                            , March 29, 1855.
                  
                     77
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 6, 1855; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Republican, June 7, 1855.
                  
                     78
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 9, 1855; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Jeffersonian, March 20, 1856.
                  
                     79
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, May 23, 1855.
                  
                     80
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, Sept. 22, 1855.
                  
                     81
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 27, July 3, 1855.
               
                     would be made to endorse the action of the
                    delegates at the last grand council and form an open state organization.82 Any move to endorse such an anti-slavery program was
                    opposed by the county councils of 
                        Vigo
                    , Vanderburg, and a few other counties where the straight Americans
                    predominated. The 
                        Vigo county
                     council passed the following resolution which shows the temper of
                    that faction: 
                        
                     Resolved; That our delegates be instructed to vote and
                            use his influence in the State Council, to ignore the slave question
                            entirely, and to vote for no platform which has anything to do with the
                            subject in any form.83
                  
                    
            
            The first session of the state council took place on July 11. Officers were
                    elected, William Sheets, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , succeeding Godlove S. Orth as president.84 The
                    action of the Indiana delegates to the national council was approved.85 Although there was opposition to the motion it was made
                    unanimous. In the same way the southern pro-slavery platform was unanimously
                    rejected. The council declared itself entirely disconnected from the national
                    grand council, but although severing all connection with that body, it preserved
                    its own organization intact and separate from the Republican party.86 The injunction to secrecy was removed and the proceedings
                    were ordered to be made public.87
            
            On the twelfth, a platform of principles was adopted88 which
                    liberalized the order to some extent, making it more in consonance with the true
                    sentiment of the members in the state. The platform was extended so as to take
                    in all native born and naturalized citizens except Roman Catholics. Further
                    resolutions favored the restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise; opposed the extension of slavery; opposed any
                    alteration of the existing temperance law; favored the alteration of that
                    section of the constitution of the state which permits 
                  
                     82
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, July 4, 1855, from the 
                                Aurora
                            
                            Standard.
                  
                  
                     83
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 17, 1855; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Jeffersonian, July 26, 1855.
                  
                     84
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Sept. 7, 1855.
                  
                            
                        85
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Journal, July 14, 1855; 
                                    Madison
                                
                                Courier, July 18, 1835.
                            
                        
                                    Logansport
                                
                                Journal, July 21, 1855; 
                                    New Albany
                                
                                Tribune, July 18, 1855; 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Sentinel, July 17, 20, 1855; 
                                    Princeton
                                
                                Clarion, July 21, 1855; 
                                    New Albany
                                
                                Ledger, July 18, 1855; 
                                    Bedford
                                
                                
                                    White River Standard
                                , July 19, 1855.
                        
                  
                     86
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Oct. 31, 1855.
                  
                     87
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 14, 1855.
                  
                     88
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 17, 1855; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Republican, July 19, 1855; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, Oct. 12, 1855.
               
                     aliens to vote after a residence of six
                    months and a declaration of intention to become a citizen; and refused to
                    support anyone for office who acknowledged the existence of a
                    politico-ecclesiastical power superior to the president of the 
                        United States
                    . The unity of the party, and even the natlvlst principles were made
                    subordinate to the question of the restoration of the barrier against the
                    further advance of the slave power.
            But the repudiation of the old national features of the platform was not carried
                    out with harmony. In fact it was done in the face of much violent opposition. It
                    was said that the delegates of fifteen counties seceded from the council because
                    of this action.89 When the result was made known, it was a
                    bitter disappointment to the national Americans. "What right had they
                    to absolve the party from all connection with the national council? What is to
                    become of our pledges to stand by the Union?" said the 
                        Greencastle
                    
                    Banner. That paper regretted the course taken and claimed the
                    abolitionists had gained control. Another Know Nothing paper, the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Journal, predicted that the platform would help carry Indiana
                    but would work against them in the national election.90 The 
                        Vigo county
                     council which had instructed its delegate to ignore the slavery
                    question entirely and had in turn seen its wishes ignored, now repudiated the
                    action of the state council. It passed resolutions not to follow the state
                    council in its act of secession from the national council, but declared it would
                    maintain its organization in support of the principles' declared by the
                    latter; and that it was tired of the whole slavery agitation.91 Likewise the American party of 
                        Evansville
                     passed resolutions announcing its determination to stand on the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform.92 The Cannelton Reporter, on the ground that the abolitionists of northern Indiana were in
                    control, discarded the proceedings of the state council "in
                    toto." The Corydon Argus and the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Gazette also opposed the action of the state council.
            The Democrats rejoiced at the new dissensions within the American party. They
                    announced that the order had completely 
                  
                     89
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 25, 1855.
                  
                     90
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 20, 1855.
                  
                     91
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 23, 1855; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, July 24, 1855.
                  
                     92
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 31, 1855.
               
                     abolitionized itself and looked upon the
                    secession as a virtual disbanding of the organization.93
            
            Yet the great majority of the American party neartily approved the proceedings of
                    the state council. The opposition was confined entirely to the southern and
                    southwestern portions of the state. The majority regarded the liberalizing of
                    the order as a great advance, as an end of useless proscription, and the
                    position taken on the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise as a brave stand against pro-slavery dictation.
            In fact the state council of 1855 marks the end of the original character of Know
                    Nothingism in the state. The slavery question which threatened the order from
                    the beginning had gradually broken down the nationalism of the movement. The day
                    of mystery and secrecy was past and with it departed much of the dread and fear
                    which it inspired. Thereafter the American party was regarded as but little
                    different in character from the other parties. It was looked upon as
                    conservative rather than proscriptive. The connection between the anti-slavery
                    wing and the Republicans became continually closer, while the national or
                    straight Americans received less and less consideration from the other factions
                    of the opposition.
            The Fusion convention met at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , July 13, 1855.94 As in the previous year the
                    Know Nothings played a prominent part. Judge Charles Test, of 
                        Wayne
                    , who had been assocaited with them in 1854, was called upon to
                    preside. B. R. Sulgrove was one of the secretaries. 
                        Milton
                     Gregg, David Kilgore, and Lucien Barbour were among the eleven
                    vice-presidents. The principal speech was made by General Henry Wilson, the Know
                    Nothing from 
                        Massachusetts
                    , who had led the northern delegates in their secession from the
                    last grand council. Although the slavery question was the chief topic of his
                    address, he openly expounded and defended the principles of Americanism. A state
                    central committee of fifteen members was formed upon which several Know Nothings
                    acted, namely, J. S. Harvey, Rawson Vaile, and Lucien Barbour, of 
                        Marion county
                    ; 
                        Milton
                     Gregg, 
                  
                     93
                            
                                Lebanon
                            
                            
                        
                                    Boone County
                                 Pioneer, Sept. 22, 1855; 
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, July 21, 1855.
                  
                     94
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 14, 1855.
               
                     of 
                        Floyd
                    , Solomon Meredith, of 
                        Wayne
                    ; and John W. Dawson, of 
                        Allen
                    . A platform of resolutions was adopted. Since secrecy had been
                    abolished in the order there was no objection to an open avowal of American
                    principles, so the following plank was incorporated: 
                        
                     Resolved, That both experience and the unmistakable
                            manifestations of a just public sentiment demand a change of the
                            Constitution and laws of this State so as to limit the elective
                            franchise to such persons as are actual citizens of the 
                                United States
                            , either by birth or by a full and final conformity with the
                            laws on the subject of naturalization.95
                  
                    
            
            At this time there was very little difference between the Indiana Americans and
                    Republicans. Of course, the extreme abolitionists and the straight Americans
                    never could become reconciled but both were minority factions in their
                    respective parties. There was really no middle wall of partition between the
                    order and the People's party.96 The Indiana Republican, the Know Nothing central organ, actively supported
                    all Republican movements. It actually treated the two parties as one and the
                    same organization.97 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, although now identified more with Republicanism than
                    with Know Nothingism, openly advocated a complete union, or at least a
                    harmonious cooperation on the ground that there was no real difference in
                    principle between them. The proscriptive features of the order had been
                    abolished, the two parties stood together on the slavery question, and the
                    Republicans accepted nativist principles in a mild form at least.98 The Republicans openly proposed to make such a change in the
                    constitution of Indiana as would prevent the voting of aliens,99 and that policy was specifically declared to be Republicanism.100 Many Republicans openly declared their adherence to Know
                    Nothing principles but did not see the use of a political party to gain them.
                    They believed the principles of Protestantism too sacred to Americans to be
                    appropriated by a single party 101 The Republicans would
                    gladly have the 
                  
                     95
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 14, 1855.
                  
                     96
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 17, 1855.
                  
                     97
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Republican, Sept. 6, 1855.
                  
                     98
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 11, 1855.
                  
                     99
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, Dec. 7, 1855.
                  
                     100
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Sept. 20, 1855.
                  
                     101
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, Nov. 2, 1855.
               
                     slight barriers separating the two parties
                    discarded and would "rejoice to see the day when Republican, Know
                    Nothing, and Know Something can stand openly and unitedly on a truly American
                        platform."102 Others sensed the situation more
                    accurately when they predicted that the Republican movement would swallow up and
                    concentrate all the opposition.103
            
            The Americans too were moderating in their demands. A naturalization period of
                    five years was generally advocated, even by the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Tribune, the "straightest of the sect",
                    instead of the longer term of twenty-one years demanded formerly.
            The order of United Americans was introduced into Indiana in the fall of 1855104 A few lodges of this nativist secret society were
                    established but they did not flourish. The order of the Star Spangled Banner
                    itself was not able to prevent its own decline, so there was no room for a
                    second society.
            A number of great election riots occurred in 1855 between Know Nothings and their
                    opponents, chiefly foreigners. In the. August election at 
                        Louisville
                     more than twenty persons were killed.105
                    Although the responsibility for these acts was disputed, the Know Nothings
                    received the blame and the Democrats made political capital out of it,
                    throughout the fall campaign. In the press and in county conventions the latter
                    denounced them bitterly.106 Governor Wright declared before
                    the Democratic state convention that any attempt by Know Nothings in Indiana to
                    drive Democrats away from the polls would be forcibly resisted. A plank was put
                    in the platform, which declared hostility to secret political societies and
                    deplored the scenes of riot, outrage, arson, and murder caused by their
                        members.107 Governor Wright and other Democratic
                    speakers who stumped the state made the Know Nothings their chief target.
            For most of the county elections the Americans and Republicans formed joint
                    tickets. The tickets thus constituted 
                  
                     102
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 22, 1855.
                  
                     103
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, July 21, 1855.
                  
                     104
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Oct. 27, 1855.
                  
                     105
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 8, 1855.
                  
                     106
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal Aug. 22, 1855.
                  
                     107
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Aug 30, 1855.
               
                     were referred to indiscriminately as
                    Republican, People's, and American. In 
                        Wayne county
                     the Americans nominated by popular vote.108
                    Godlove S. Orth was nominated for judge of 
                        Tippecanoe county
                     by the Americans and Republicans. His standing with the latter was
                    not hurt by the fact that his name at the time was signed to the call for the
                    next American convention. In 
                        Harrison county
                     the Know Nothings nominated Walter Q. Gresham for clerk.110 A Know Nothing, William Wallace, was nominated for mayor
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .111 The Americans of 
                        Dearborn county
                     showed their more liberal views, as they had in the spring, by
                    supporting an Englishman and an Irishman for office.112
            
            The Americans conducted no campaign of their own except in the southern portion
                    of the state. Their demonstrations took the form of grand outdoor mass meetings
                    and barbecues. Great rallies were held at Paoli, Corydon, 
                        New Albany
                    , Charleston, and Seymour.113 The American
                    orators were Colonel William A. Bowles of Paoli, David O. Dailey, of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , David T. Laird, Thomas C. Slaughter, and G. P. R. Wilson, of 
                        Harrison county
                    , John M. Wilson, of 
                        New Albany
                    , William Sheets, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and General Pilcher, of 
                        Louisville
                    . Most of them avoided the slavery issue entirely.
            In the elections the Democrats were universally successful. Many counties which
                    had given fusion majorities in 1854 now returned Old Liners to office. The
                    American strength in 
                  Ohio,
                            Switzerland, Jefferson, Jennings, Floyd
               , and some others was sufficient
                    to give victory to the People's tickets there.114
                    It was a poor year for "Sam" in Indiana, although at the same
                    time he was winning great victories in 
                  Massachusetts, New York,
                            Kentucky, Tennessee
               , and other southern states.115
            
            
               
                  108
                        
                            Richmond
                        
                        Jeffersonian, July 5, 1855.
               
                  109
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Republican. Sept. 20, 1855.
               
                  110
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Ledger, June 27, 18555.
               
                  111
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Sept. 26, 1855; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Oct. 8, 1855.
               
                  112
                        
                            Bedford
                        
                        
                            White River Standard
                        , Sept. 6, 1855.
               
                  113
                        
                            Bedford
                        
                        
                            White River Standard
                        , Aug. 9, 23, Oct. 11, 1855; 
                            New Albany
                        
                        Tribune, Aug. 22, Sept. 12,. 26, 1855; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Aug. 10, Sept. 13, 1855.
               
                  114
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Oct. 11, 1855; 
                            Bedford
                        
                        
                            White River Standard
                        , Oct. 18, 25, 1855; 
                            New Albany
                        
                        Tribune, Oct. 17, 1855; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Republican, Sept. 20, 1855.
               
                  115
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Aug. 8, Nov. 9, Dec. 1, 7, 1855.
            
            
            The committee of correspondence, appointed at a meeting of the delegates seceding
                    from the last grand council, issued a call dated August 21, 1855, to the
                    American party authorizing state and local councils to send delegates to a
                    national convention, which was to be held at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , November 21.116 The committee desired to see
                    represented all who favored religious and political liberty; opposed the
                    importation of foreign paupers and criminals; favored an extended period of
                    naturalization; and wished for a restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise. It was signed by Godlove S. Orth, the member for
                    Indiana, and by the representatives of eleven other northern states.
            The purpose of the convention was generally understood to be the reorganization
                    of the Know Nothing Order in the north upon an anti-slavery basis–to
                    secure the consent of the states that freedom should be national and slavery,
                    sectional. The question of presidential candidates was not to be considered.117
            
            The convention met at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , November 21, 1855. Fifty-two delegates were present from 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Vermont
                and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , representing one hundred four electoral votes. The Indiana
                    delegation consisted of seven members, J. C. Moody of 
                        Floyd county
                    , Elias Thomasson of 
                        New Albany
                    , William Sheets of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the president of the state council, John M. Dawson, editor of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Times, A. P. Cobb, James Hock, and M. S. Robinson.118
            
            The convention organized by the appointment of General Williamson, of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , chairman, and W. W. Danne-hower, of 
                        Illinois
                    , secretary. 119 All were excluded from the hall
                    except third degree members of the order. The strictest secrecy was observed but
                    an official report of the proceedings was published daily. William Sheets acted
                    on the committee on credentials and J. C. Moody on the committee on permanent
                    organization. Thomas H. Ford, of 
                        Ohio
                    , was elected permanent president, with S. M. Allen, of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and 
                  
                     118 Text of the call in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 22, 1855; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Aug. 29, 1855; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Republican, Aug. 30, 1855.
                  
                     102 Inditnapolis Journal, Aug.
                            22, 1855.
                  
                     118
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 24, 1855; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, Nov. 28, 1855.
                  
                     119
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 23, 1855.
               
                     William Sheets as vice-presidents. The
                    latter escorted the president to the chair.
            The question of the platform absorbed much of the interest of the convention.
                    John W. Dawson, of the Indiana delegation, offered a resolution proposing to
                    expunge the twelfth section of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platfrom, and substitute in its stead a declaration that slavery is
                    not a national but a sectional issue, and must be settled as such by the
                        states.120 It was referred' to the committee on
                    resolutions.
            J. C. Moody offered a resolution to repeal all rituals, tests of membership,
                    etc., leaving all regulations to the organization in each. It was laid on the
                        table.121
            
            The committee on resolutions, of which Sheets was a member, offered two
                    platforms, a majority and a minority report. The latter was not extreme, either
                    of Americanism or anti-slavery. It proposed to exclude slavery from the national
                    territories. The majority platform proposed to go into convention with the south
                    next February and in place of the existing twelfth section, to gain the
                    substitution of a plank calling for the restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise; if that failed congress should refuse to admit into the
                    union any state tolerating slavery, which should be formed out of any portion of
                    the territory from which that institution was excluded by the compromise. The
                    platform further provided that: the several state councils could admit to
                    membership all citizens who were eligible to office under section eight of the
                    national platform; protested against coalescence with any party which demanded
                    the postponement or abandonment of American principles; and requested the
                    president of the national council to call a meeting of the same at 
                        Philadelphia
                    , on the 19th of the next February.122
            
            This platform was adopted by a vote of ninety-six to eleven, each state
                    delegation having a vote equal to its electoral vote. All the Indiana
                    representatives voted for it. This shows the reactionary character of the
                    convention. The seceding body was making overtures and proposing a
                    reconciliation to those who had given them offense. To go into convention 
                  
                     120
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 23, 1855; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Jeffersonian, May 15, 1856.
                  
                     121
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 23, 1855; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, Nov. 28, 1855.
                  
                     122
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 24, 1855; 
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, Dec. 15, 1855; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, Nov. 28, 1855; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 27, 1855.
               
                     with the south would be a waste of time so
                    far as any hope of compromise favorable to the north was concerned. The effort
                    of the free state delegates to get back into the national council, no matter
                    what their motive was, would undoubtedly be construed as a confession of being
                    in the wrong and would confirm the south in refusing again. The Indiana men were
                    in sympathy with the majority. The absence of men with strong anti-slavery
                    principles, such as Colfax, Cumback and Orth and the other original seceders,
                    was noticeable.
            The Know Nothing organization seemed to be at the point of crumbling to pieces at
                    the end of the year 1855. Many of the councils were disbanding.123 Hundreds of their members withdrew and openly declared their
                    connection with the order at an end.124 The politicians who
                    had rushed into the order to control it now as suddenly rushed out again. It now
                    seemed probable that the organization, which in 1854 was regarded as certain to
                    carry the state in the next presidential election, would not be able to make a
                    respectable contest in the election of 1856. The slavery question had played
                    havoc with "Sam's" plans.
            
               
                        
                     123 For example see the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel of Dec. 5, 1855, for the following, taken
                            from the 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier: "Messrs. Editors:–At a
                            meeting of the Star City Council held at the council room on Saturday
                            evening. Dee. 1, 1855, on motion it was resolved that we surrender our
                            charter to the power from whence it came, and disband our secret
                            organization.
                        STEPHEN STAFFORD
                            Secretary pro tem."
                    
               
                        
                     124
                            
                                Lebanon
                            
                            
                        
                                    Boone County
                                 Pioneer, Oct. 6, 1855; 
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, Dec. 8, 1855; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Apr. 5, 1856; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Apr. 2, 1856.
                        
                            (To be Continued.)
                        
                    
            
            (To be Continued.)
         
         
         
            The McGowan Murder at Hindostan
            WILLIAM MCGOWAN
                    Oaktown
            In the year 1787 my grandfather, McGowan with several others embarked on the
                        Ohio river from 
                  Washington county, Pennsylvania
               , for Au Post (now 
                        Vincennes
                    ); among the company were Jonathan and William Purcell and their
                    families. They proceeded down the river to the falls where 
                        Louisville
                     now stands, without accident or molestation. Landing there, a part
                    of the company with the women and children packed the horses with such things as
                    were needed for the journey, my mother, the child of one of the Purcells, being
                    eight years old. They followed an Indian trace [
                        Vincennes
                     trace] to Au Post, while the balance of the party ran the boat to
                    the mouth of the Wabash river. At Au Post the men of the
                    overland party procured help with pirogues, the largest up-stream craft then in
                    use, and went down the 
                        Wabash
                     to the 
                        Ohio
                    , where they met the balance of the party and in this way conveyed
                    their belongings up the 
                        Wabash
                     to their new home at Au Post.
            They were among the first American citizens of that place. At this time my
                    father, John Patrick McGowan was eighteen years of age, he learned his trade of
                    gunsmith with Colonel [John] Small, at Au Post.
            After my father and mother were married they lived for some time in the village,
                    my father working for the Indian agent, Thomas Jones, at his trade of making
                    guns. While here an Indian named Pop in Dick, who was partly brought up by Mr.
                    Jones became very meddlesome about the shop. On one occasion he stepped on a
                    piece of hot iron, and severely burned his foot, which made him very angry at my
                    father, who was in no wise to blame. This same Indian afterward killed my
                    father.
            In the year 1805, on September 29, I was born six miles northeast of 
                        Vincennes
                    , but all during my infancy we lived in 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            
            In the year 1808 or 1809 my father built and made improvements and established a
                    ferry on the east fork of White river, about one mile below
                    where Mt. Pleasant now stands [Hindostan]. Our nearest
                    neighbors were at Lick Creek, near where Paoli now stands in 
                        Orange county
                    ; there were a few families near 
                  Washington, Davis
                        county
               . Shortly after my father settled here, a man by
                    the name of Boggs built a cabin at or near where Mt.
                    Pleasant now' stands, a creek running into White
                        river still retains his name.
            About the year 1810 Levi Kinman, his wife and younger brother, Jeremiah, built a
                    cabin on the opposite side of the river from my father's. My father got
                    his help to roll his logs and raise his building from 
                        Vincennes
                    , our breadstuff was brought up from 
                        Vincennes
                    , but our meat consisted of bear, deer and wild 
                        turkey
                    . On this, with hominy and wild honey, we lived fat and fine. After
                    we were well established my father opened a house of entertainment for
                    travelers.
            I remember when the people called Shakers moved to the prairie which still bears
                    their name. I recollect when Captain [Spier] 
                        Spencer
                    's company, "the Yellow Jackets" stayed
                    at my father's house all night, in 1811, on their way to jdin General
                    Harrison's army. About this time the Indians became very hostile and
                    our neighbor, Boggs and family, were killed. Their house was afterward occupied
                    by a family named Dunham and later by people named Prior.
            During this time the Indians committed many depredations on the frontier and the
                    travelers. So, for their better security, the settlers built forts after this
                    manner. After felling the trees, logs were cut 12 to 15 feet long, the upper end
                    was sharpened, then a ditch was dug and these logs were set up close together in
                    it, the dirt was then packed tightly on each side, making a stockade surrounding
                    the largest house, on the best site which would be on an elevation, affording a
                    clear view for some considerable distance. To this house was added other houses
                    so as to accommodate the whole neighborhood. Into these forts the settlers took
                    their effects. Among the names I recollect are Forts Curry, Ochiltree, Pur-cell,
                    McClure and Decker in 
                        Knox county
                    . When Fort Harrison was besieged, Purcell's fort
                    concentrated their forces  with
                    McClure's fort, both sites are in what is now 
                        Washington
                     township.
            In one of these forts there was a pious man, who every evening called the
                    inhabitants to prayer. While engaged in prayer for their protection through the
                    night, the Indians drew near and while they listened, to the earnest pleadings
                    of these followers of the Most High, He that said "Touch not mine
                    annointed, and do my prophets no harm," put it into the hearts of those
                    Indians to turn aside from that place, they crossed the Wabash
                    river and attacked another fort in the dead hour of night. (This was
                    the testimony of an Indian after the war closed). While the Indians were
                    committing depredations two families that I remember, Bogard and Hathaway, were
                    attacked while moving at what is now called Steele's 
                        Prairie
                    , some of them were killed, others were saved by their teams running
                    away.
            In 1812' my father's house and Hawkin's on the west
                    fork of White river, were stations for a small company of
                    rangers. They passed from one station to the other every day so that each
                    station had guard only every other night, they not having a sufficient number to
                    divide. When they left our house one morning, they said that night would be the
                    last that we would be left without a guard. But, oh, fatal night. Our house was
                    attacked by the Indians, my father was killed in his bed, while my mother and an
                    infant sister were in the bed with him. The Indians then made an assault on the
                    house of our neighbor just across the river, but the two Kinmans with a youth by
                    the name of McGuire, held them off with their guns and dogs so that they soon
                    left. This was in May, 1812. The next day the rangers came, wrapped my
                    father's remains in a sheet, laid him on a puncheon taken from the
                    floor and buried him a few rods from the river bank. The Indian Pop-in-Dick, who
                    killed my father, was found to be a leader in assaults on the settlers, for in
                    his absence from 
                        Vincennes
                     there were always depredations committed. Before the war closed,
                    this Indian was killed by Tom White, at 
                        Fort Harrison
                    . In a few days after my father was killed, my uncles Purcell and
                    Balthis, came and moved us away from the ill-fated spot, to Purcell's
                    fort, which was seven miles northeast of 
                        Vincennes
                    , where we lived until the assault on  Fort Harrison when, for our better security we
                    moved to McClure's fort. About this time two of the 
                        Milton
                     boys, being away from their fort, were attacked by the Indians, one
                    was killed, the other supposed to have been captured.
            Through all these perilous times the people stood firm and true to each other and
                    our homely fare was free to all that saw fit to partake at our tables.
            While living at our home on White river, the Indians drove
                    off our cows, taking them into the vicinity of 
                        Vincennes
                    . If it had not been for a young man who worked for my uncle, named
                    Jacob Quick, who saw and knew the cows, it is likely we would never have seen
                    them again, but he got a company of neighbors together and they went after the
                    cows and recovered them for us.
            Our school-houses were built of logs and covered with boards, with poles to
                    weight them down, they were ceiled with poplar poles split, with the split side
                    turned down, the upper side was covered with mortar, to exclude the air. The
                    floors were made of puncheons split from trees, hewn till they were smooth. The
                    windows were made by cutting away half of two logs, nearly the length of the
                    house, putting them in the wall with the faces opposite, setting in split sticks
                    about four inches apart, and covering them with greased paper to prevent its
                    getting wet and to admit more light. The seats were made of split logs, the four
                    logs being inserted in holes bored in the ends.
            The writing desks were made of slabs or puncheons the same as the floor, and were
                    fastened to the wall under the window. Our books were few and hard to obtain.
                    Our tuition was paid by our parents, there being no school fund for us in those
                    days.
            The first plow that I used was called the bar-shear, with a wooden mould board,
                    and a bar two feet or more long.
            The next was the Carie or half-wooden mould board, which we thought was a great
                    improvement. I remember the first one was owned by Noah Purcell, and the farmers
                    went to see it, as one of the great wonders of the day.
            For grain and grass cutting we have advanced from the scythe and the sickle, to
                    the reaper and the mower. From treading out grain with horses and cleaning with
                    sheet and  wooden riddle, we have threshers
                    and separators of various models, and instead of broadcast sowing we plant our
                    seed with the drill.
            I recollect when 
                        Vincennes
                     had but one brick house and that was General Harrison's.
                    The brick was made by Samuel Thompson, in payment for the land now owned by
                    Samuel Thompson, Jr., and Bradway Thompson. The second brick house was the
                    Seminary. The third was built by Charles Smith, this was later known as the 
                        Broadway
                     tavern.
            The first steam mill was built by Fellows &Co. Samuel Thompson made the
                    brick for the furnace. I helped to haul them to the Wabash
                    river when we boated them to the building site.
            The first Presbyterian minister at 
                        Vincennes
                     was Samuel T. Scott. I recollect several of the first Methodist
                    circuit riders whose headquarters were at 
                        Vincennes
                    , these were Schrader, Richards, Posey and James McCord. The first
                    Baptist minister was Isaac McCoy afterwards missionary to the Indians at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .
            How changed the scene in the last half century. 
                        Vincennes
                     has become a city, churches and schools have advanced. Keeping pace
                    with the general prosperity of our state. Many of those who in youth endured the
                    dangers and privations of the pioneer have passed away, but few of us are left.
                    Our heads are white with the frosts of many winters. Soon we, too, must pass
                    away, but while our outward man must perish, and return to mother dust, may our
                    inward life be renewed from day to day so that we may be ready when the summons
                    shall come.1 May 27,1874.
            
               
                  1 This article was furnished by Mrs. C. B. Robbins, of
                        Oaktown, Ind., whose husband was the great-grandson of the murdered man. It
                        was prepared for and read at an old settlers' meeting in 
                            Vincennes
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Historical News
            By the INDIANA HISTORICAL COMMISSION
            
            The annual spring meeting of the 
                        Henry County
                     historical society was held in 
                        Newcastle
                    , Thursday, April 27. An all-day program had been arranged,
                    including the usual big dinner which always forms a valuable part of the
                    historical program. The 
                        Henry County
                     historical society is one of the few in the state that owns its own
                    home. Several years ago the society purchased the home of General Grose, and it
                    has been converted into a historical museum. Under the direction of Clarence H.
                    Smith, recently appointed curator, the historical society has grown greatly in
                    membership, and the museum collection is rapidly becoming one of the best in
                    Indiana. Over two hundred persons attended the annual spring meeting.
            The 
                        Carroll County
                     historical society held its first public meeting on Friday night,
                    April 28. One of the special features of the program was a large painting giving
                    an artist's veiw of pioneer 
                        Carroll county
                    . It depicted the coming of the white settlers into 
                        Carroll county
                    , the deportation of the Pot-tawattomie Indians, the opening up of
                    the first white settlements, and contained a list of the first settlers in the
                    county. A valuable collection of pioneer relics furnished by Mr. and Mrs.
                    Charles Buckley was on display. Talks by Mrs. John W. Ballard of 
                        Logansport
                     on Songs of the Pioneers, and by Dr. John W. Oliver on The Value of
                    the Study of Local History were given. Special plans for organization of
                    township historical committees are being carried on throughout 
                        Carroll county
                    .
            Of the county historical societies in Indiana, none are doing more valuable work
                    than the 
                        Jefferson County
                     society. Its membership is over three hundred, with annual dues of
                    one dollars ($1.00). The old Lanier home, recently converted into an
                    historical museum, is visited by more than five hundred people yearly. Among
                    some of the most valuable collections housed in the museum are: Copy of first
                    issue of the Western
                    
                    Eagle, dated May 5, 1813, 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana Territory; a copy of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Daily Gazette, May 1, 1789, containing an account of 
                        Washington
                    's first inauguration as President; a copy of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Museum, 1832, probably the first literary periodical in
                    Indiana; the original marriage certificate of Sarah Tittle Barrett and Nathaniel
                    Bolton, 1832; minute book of the Bronte Club, the second woman's club
                    in America, founded by Mrs. Constance Fauntleroy Runcie, 1867; documents bearing
                    the original signatures of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison,
                    Andrew Jackson, Martin Van Buren, Abraham Lincoln, Oliver P. Morton and others. 
                        Jefferson county
                     is also one of the leading counties in conducting the
                    archaeological and historical survey. Mrs. Michael C. Garber, president, is in
                    charge of collecting its valuable historical material.
            The Marshal Foch Day Volume issued by the Indiana Historical Commission has come
                    from the press and been distributed. In this volume is; to be found a report of
                    all the exercises held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during Marshal Foch's visit, November 4, 1921. A report of
                    all the addresses made on that day, an account of the different meetings held,
                    pictures and photographs of the parade, and other public exercises given in the
                    Marginal's honor, are included in the publication. A copy of the
                    publication has been placed in each of the public libraries in Indiana, and in
                    the high school libraries.
            On Saturday, April 8th, a meeting celebrating the centennial anniversary of the
                    establishment of the 
                        Decatur County
                     bar association, was held in 
                        Greensburg
                    . Judge John F. Goddard, president of the 
                        Decatur County
                     historical society, and Judge John R. Carney of Vernon, president
                    of the 
                        Jennings County
                     historical society, were responsible for this historical
                    celebration. Judges and prominent members of the bar residing in the Fourth
                    district attended this meeting, at which papers; were read recounting a
                    century's growth in the legal profession in that part of Indiana.
            A joint meeting of the historical societies of 
                  St. Joseph, Laporte, Porter
               , and 
                        Lake
                     counties, was held on Sunday afternoon  June 18th, in connection with the Dune summer camp
                    program on the shores of 
                        Lake
                        Michigan
                     in 
                        Porter county
                    ; Papers read by representatives of each of the county historical
                    societies emphasized the importance of the study of the history of the Dunes. An
                    historical pilgrimage to the home of Joseph de Bailley, the first white
                    homestead in northern Indiana, was one of the features of the program.
            
                    Among relics brought before the 
                            Orange County
                         historical society at a recent meeting, was a textbook 175
                        years old. The book, Dill-worth's Assistant to
                            Teachers, was published in 
                     London, England
                  , in 1747, and is believed to be the oldest
                        book in the county. Aaron Maris, a descendent of a pioneer family, produced
                        some interesting relics, including the copy of a land grant to one of his
                        ancestors that was originally signed by William Penn, land patents signed by
                        President Van Buren and some ancient marriage certificates.
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News, February 25, 1922.
                
            The passing of old Indiana newspapers, particularly those of a century's
                    growth or more, deserves notice among the historical items of the state. The 
                        old Vevay
                    
                    Reveille established in 1816, the year in which Indiana was
                    admitted to the Union, and which is said to have had a record of not missing an
                    issue in the 106 years of its publication, was recently sold to Earl S. Brown,
                    publisher of the 
                        Vevay
                    
                    Enterprise. The old Reveille is said to have
                    been the second oldest weekly newspaper in Indiana.
            
               
                  
                            Spencer County
                         In The World War is the title of a manuscript war history
                    recently filed with the Indiana historical commission. Mrs. Helen R. Swan,
                    chairman of the War History committee, has succeeded in obtaining reports on all
                    the organizations that took part in war work during the years 1917-1919. A
                    valuable part of the 
                        Spencer County
                     war history collection consists of six scrap books filled with
                    newspaper clippings relating to 
                        Spencer county
                    's part in the World war. Miss Blanche Kercheval assisted
                    Mrs. Swan in collecting and preparing these valuable newspaper references.
            The State library has received from Mrs. John H. Holliday as part of the gift of
                    John H. Holliday, the manuscripts of three diaries of John Tipton: The Journal
                    of John Tipton, 
                    
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battle Campaign 1811; Journal of John Tipton of an expedition to
                    the vicinity of Vallonia (now in 
                        Jackson County
                    ) of 
                        Harrison County
                     Rangers in July, 1812, to protect citizens from the hostile Indians
                    while pulling their flax; Journal of John Tipton of tour in 1820 to fix the seat
                    of government of the State of Indiana. Two or three years before Mr.
                    Holliday's death, he had deposited in the State library as the property
                    of the state, his collection on the Civil war. This he had been gathering for
                    many years. It is one of the best in the middle West. The pamphlet collection is
                    of particular interest because these bear especially on the military prisons of
                    the Civil war period and are rare, and secondly, there are many items on the 
                        Gettysburg
                     campaign in which Mr. Holliday was deeply interested. There are
                    memoirs and biographies of the principal generals on both sides, many volumes on
                    Lincoln, a set of Vanity Fair of 1860, 1861 and 1862, the
                    proceedings of the soldiers' societies of both sides, regimental
                    histories and biographies of the public men of that day. In addition there are
                    collections of pamphlets on the government of Indiana, particularly the
                    charities of the state, in which Mr. Holliday was always active. There are about
                    1,500 volumes in this gift. In the discretion of the librarian these items may
                    be loaned, but they are primarily for reference.
            The number of the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Tribune for March 9, 1922 is a hundred page golden anniversary
                    edition. The paper contains many interesting articles and pictures relating to
                    the early history of 
                        South Bend
                    .
            The Ft. Wayne historical society held its first quarterly meeting of the year
                    April 4. The program included a dinner, followed by an historical pageant. As
                    announced on the program the pageant was given to honor the Peltiers–
                        Fort Wayne
                    's first pioneer family, depicting scenes in their
                    subsequent life with faithfulness to historical facts as these are now
                    obtainable. The prologue, written by Mrs. A. J. Detzer, described the coming of
                    the Peltiers "merest lads were they both" in 1787; the arrival
                    in the summer of 1804 of the beautiful Angeline Chapeteau, and the welcome given
                    to her by the people living in and near the Old Fort. Mrs. Samuel Taylor  was the author of the pageant proper, which
                    was divided into five episodes and twelve scenes. The musical program was
                    arranged by Mrs. Will H. W. Peltier, pianist, and Mrs. Florence Cleary, soloist.
                    The pageant was directed by Ross Lockridge, Vice-President of the Society, and
                    the character interpretations were given by the Indiana University Extension
                    public speaking classes. The program emphasized three things: the importance of
                    family histories; the necessity for trained speakers; and the value of the
                    pageant in teaching history.
            On January 28, 1921, the Indiana Historical Commission received a letter from the
                    secretary of the Northern Indiana historical society, in which the information
                    was given that the society had been asleep for a few years, but signs of renewed
                    activity were evidenced in the electing of new officers, and the securing of an
                    appropriation to be expended in buying furniture and cases to furnish the rooms
                    of the society which had been permanently located in the old court house of 
                        St. Joseph county
                    . Through the efforts: of the new officers, Dr. H. T. Montgomery,
                    president, John A. Hibberd, secretary, and Frank A. Stover, treasurer, a bill
                    was presented to the General Assembly of 1919, which would make it possible for
                    historical societies having a collection of records, papers, and historical
                    relics, to obtain an appropriation from the county commissioners for the
                    employment of a curator to take charge of the rooms and collections of the
                    societies, and make them available to the public. Credit is due to the Northern
                    historical society for the passage of Senate Bill 190.
            On March 1, of this year, the county commissioners of 
                        St. Joseph county
                     made the appropriation provided for in the bill, and upon the
                    recommendation of the society Mrs. Eva Hoffman was employed as curator. The
                    rooms of the society are now open three days in the week, and the work of
                    cataloging and classifying the collections of the Society is going forward
                    rapidly under the direction of Mrs. Hoffman. One annual meeting of the society
                    is held each year, with special meetings at the call of the president. The
                    annual meeting of this year was held on the evening of April 7. One of the
                    interesting features of the program was a talk by George Brennan, of 
                    
                        Chicago
                    , an authority on northern Indiana history, and the author of a book
                    on the Dunes of Northern Indiana which is now in the hands of
                    the publisher. A representative of the Indiana historical commission was present
                    and gave an informal talk on the work of the commission in co-operation with
                    local historical societies. Talks were made by Dr. H. T. Montgomery and local
                    members of the society. A committee was appointed to take up the work of
                    compiling a history of 
                        St. Joseph county
                    's part in the World war, in manuscript form for
                    publication.
            The regular monthly meeting of the 
                        Washington County
                     historical society was held March 25. A memorial service was a part
                    of the program in honor of a former citizen and president of the Old Settlers
                    society, Lewis N. Smith. The biographical sketch was read by Mrs. Asa Elliott,
                    together with a letter from Dr. S. W. Smith of Leesville, a son of the deceased,
                    who gave to the society two Bibles over one hundred years old, formerly the
                    property of his father. A sketch of the life of Col. S. D. Sayles was read by
                    his daughter, Mrs. Martha L. Hobbs; and a paper on the Mounds of 
                        Howard
                     Township by S. H. Mitchell. This paper was prepared in connection
                    with the archeological and historical survey which 
                        Washington county
                     is making for the state. Many relics were received, consisting of
                    old newspapers, manuscripts, coins and photographs.
         
      
      
         
      
   
