
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 56, Issue 1, pages 1-104. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:56+issue:1+year:1960&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Indiana Physician as Geologist and Naturalist
            William DePrex Inlow∗
            
            In the development of natural science in Indiana during the nineteenth century the doctor of medicine
                    played an important role. His contribution is not to be marveled at, for it was he above all others
                    who by temperament and training was led to the study of nature. It was to be expected that his
                    primary concern with the science of man himself should also find expression in the exploration of
                    other fields. The physician became a botanist almost of necessity, for he had need of medicinal
                    plants. He roved forest and field in collecting; he treasured his herbarium; animal life intrigued
                    him. He often made notations and reports concerning both the flora and the fauna of his area.
                    Scientific interest thus always goes beyond subservience to what is deemed immediately practical. In
                    the streams where the physician studied fish and searched for shells he found rocks exposed, some of
                    which bore in them the remains of the life of eons past. He became a collector of fossils. The
                    pursuit of paleontology led him into the intricacies of stratigraphy. When interest in geological
                    knowledge developed, it was frequently to the physician that public authorities turned for
                    assistance in geological survey.
            Today the physician is no longer natural historian having a wide knowledge of the abundant life forms
                    of his state, no longer paleontologist classifying specimens for his cabinet, no longer field
                    geologist conducting surveys of his own and other counties. Science in days past was not so
                    comprehensive, so detailed as now. One then could be an all-round man, 
                  
                     ∗ William DePrez Inlow is senior surgeon, Inlow Clinic, 
                                Shelbyville
                            , Indiana. This article is adapted from an address delivered before the Indiana
                            Association of the History of Medicine at the Pre-conference Meeting of the Twenty-ninth
                            Annual Indiana History Conference, Indiana State Library, December 11, 1947.
               
                     competent in many fields; but with modern specialization this
                    feat has become well-nigh impossible. The present-day physician, busy with his own estate, seldom
                    pauses long enough even to visit the lands of his neighbor. Intensification of effort confined to an
                    ever smaller domain has brought much profit, but in the process of specialization something has been
                    lost—something intangible and difficult to name. It has been customary to look down on
                    the early medical man as a person of meagre intellectual attainment. In this judgment we should not
                    be too hasty. It is the purpose of this presentation to call attention to some of the
                    physician's contributions in fields not ordinarily considered his province. After briefly
                    tracing the general story of natural history and geology in the state, this article will portray the
                    part taken in this development by certain medical men whose contributions were outstanding.
            The history of science in Indiana begins at 
                        New Harmony
                    . This town, up the 
                        Wabash
                     some distance from its mouth, was founded by George Rapp and his followers, the sect of
                    Rappists or Harmonists, in 1815. In 1824 Robert Owen, the famous Scottish philanthropist and
                    socialist, purchased the property for a utopian experiment which eventually failed. Many talented
                    men and women were led to seek this singular place. Here, it was affirmed, science and letters would
                    rise like the orient sun to enlighten the benighted western world. Thus by attracting learned
                    persons from abroad and from the East, 
                        New Harmony
                     became and remained for a number of years an important scientific and literary center
                    in Indiana.
            The first person to study natural life in Indiana was apparently the eccentric Constantine Samuel
                    Rafinesque, though the ornithologist, John James Audubon, in the years immediately after 1808
                    doubtless made trips north of the 
                        Ohio
                     from his home in 
                        Kentucky
                     to add Indiana birds to his collection. Rafinesque came to the 
                        United States
                     for the second time in 1815; wanderlust led him west. Securing the professorship of
                    botany and natural history in Transylvania University at 
                        Lexington
                    , he set out down the 
                        Ohio
                     in the summer of 1818 to explore the fauna and flora of 
                  Ohio, Kentucky
               ,
                    Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    . He sojourned for a time at 
                        New Harmony
                    . Here in the West was a veritable new world with plants and animals which had never
                    before been catalogued. Unknown species were on every hand, and "like  a schoolboy, Rafinesque searched and found, studied, described, drew,
                    sent abroad, the wonderful form in which he almost alone, now reveled."1
            
            In the vanguard of those individuals who came to 
                        New Harmony
                     in the mid-twenties, besides the Owens themselves, was Thomas Say. Say has been named
                    the Father of American Entomology, the Father of American Conchology, and even the Father of
                    American Zoology.2 Rafinesque, the wanderer, scarcely can be called a true
                    Hoosier; not so Say, who lived at 
                        New Harmony
                     till his death in 1834. Although two parts of his American Entomology
                    had already been published at 
                        Philadelphia
                     before he came west, he researched and wrote all of his most pretentious treatise, American Conchology, after settling in Indiana.3
            
            But of all those who lived at 
                        New Harmony
                    , David Dale Owen was destined to be "the first, the most learned and the most
                    eminent of Indiana's State Geologists."4 In 1837 the general
                    assembly passed an act authorizing and requiring the governor "to appoint and commission a
                    person of talents, integrity, and suitable scientific acquirements, as geologist for the state of
                    Indiana…." The salary was $1,500 with $250 for expenses.
                    The geologist was to make a complete and minute geological survey of the state and "at
                    those seasons not suited to the active prosecution of the geological survey, to analyze and
                    ascertain the qualities and properties of mineral substances or soils left at his office or
                    residence for that purpose by any citizen of the state…."5
                    To this office Governor Noah Noble appointed David Dale Owen.
            
               
                  1 Richard Ellsworth Call, Ichthyologia Ohiensis or Natural
                            History of the Fishes Inhabiting the River Ohio and its Tributary
                            Streams by C. S. Rafinesque (
                            Cleveland
                        , O., 1899), 22; see ibid., 17-23, for a full sketch of the life
                        of Rafinesque. For a survey of early science in the West in the period antecedent to the time
                        covered in the present article, consult R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest:
                            Pioneer Period, 1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1950), II, 580-597. For a discussion of Rafinesque, see ibid.,
                        582-585.
               
                  2 Barton Warren Evermann, "A Century of Zoology in Indiana,
                        1816-1916," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (1916) (
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Ind., 1917), 197.
               
                  3 Thomas Say, American Entomology, or Descriptions of the
                            Insects of North America (3 vols., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1824-1828); Say, American Conchology, or Descriptions of the Shells
                            of North America (
                            New Harmony
                        , Ind., 1830-1834).
               
                  4 W. S. Blatchley, "A Century of Geology in Indiana,"
                            Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (1916), 96.
               
                  5 Indiana, General Laws (1836-1837), 108-109.
            
            
            Though Owen held the degree of doctor of medicine, he never practiced; in fact, he had an intense
                    dislike for actual contact with those who were ill. It is said that he merely studied anatomy and
                    physiology to help him understand paleontology. Until 1835 he had been primarily interested in
                    chemistry, but in October of that year he embarked upon the study of medicine, registering at the
                    Medical College of 
                        Ohio
                     at 
                        Cincinnati
                     for two terms of five months each during 1835-1836 and 1836-1837. He received his
                    degree in 1837.6
            
            David Dale Owen, fourth son of Robert and Anne Caroline Owen, was born at New Lanark, 
                        Scotland
                    , June 24, 1807. When he was seventeen years of age, he and his brother Richard were
                    sent to Fellenberg's celebrated school at Hofwyl in the Swiss Alps near Berne. The
                    foundation of David Owen's knowledge of chemistry and natural history was laid during his
                    three years of study at Fellenberg's. In the meantime his father had made a trip to America
                    and had purchased 
                        New Harmony
                    . David Dale, after returning to 
                        Scotland
                     in 1826 and attending lectures for another year, set sail from Liverpool on November
                    16, 1827, with his father and brothers, Robert Dale and Richard, and arrived at 
                        New Orleans
                     January 14, 1828. From this port he and Richard went directly to 
                        New Harmony
                    .7
            
            In 1831 David Dale Owen returned to 
                        England
                     for study at 
                        London
                     University. 
                        London
                     was alive with scientific activity. Michael Faraday and John Dalton were lecturing in
                    the physical and chemical sciences; Charles Lyell, whose Principles of Geology (3
                    vols., 
                        London
                    , 1830-1833) exercised an influence on scientific thought in the nineteenth century
                        
                  
                     6 Walter Brookfield Hendrickson, David Dale Owen: Pioneer
                                Geologist of the Middle West (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXVII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1943), 22-23. At the time of Owen's attendance, the Medical College
                            of 
                                Ohio
                             was in wretched condition. Daniel Drake, greatest physician of the West, had
                            founded the college in 1820 only to suffer expulsion from it two years later. He went on,
                            however, to a somewhat stormy but brilliant career at other institutions. In 1835 when Owen
                            entered the Medical College of 
                                Ohio
                            , Drake had just established the Medical Department of the 
                                Cincinnati
                             College (Drake's School), where he had assembled the most
                            distinguished faculty the West had ever seen. Until 1839, when the Medical Department of the 
                                Cincinnati
                             College closed, there was bitter rivalry between the two schools. According to
                            Hendrickson, ibid., 23, little is known concerning Owen's medical
                            training other than that Alban Goldsmith, arch foe of Drake, was his preceptor for a year.
                            See Otto Juettner, Daniel Drake and his Followers (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1909), 145-146, 148-150.
                  
                     7 Hendrickson, David Dale Owen, 4-9, 13.
               
                     second only to Darwin's Origin of
                    Species, and Roderick Murchison, whose investigations led to the discovery and establishment of the
                    Silurian system, were making history in geology.8 David Dale Owen remained in 
                        London
                     for two years. On getting back to 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1833, he established his own chemical laboratory and museum there. These he
                    temporarily left in 1835 to go to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to study medicine.
            The year 1837 wm a most auspicious one for David Dale Owen. He became a doctor of medicine, he became
                    state geologist, and he got married.9 In addition to these felicities he was
                    back at work in his laboratory, a place which became his headquarters for his geological surveys. In
                    1837 Indiana was in the throes of its internal improvement program; otherwise the initiation of
                    state geological work might have been delayed many years. The appropriation allowed Owen for his
                    investigations seems very niggard today, but at least it was a start—perhaps the first
                    sum ever granted by an Indiana legislature for scientific purposes.
            During the spring and summer of 1837, Owen studied the succession of formations in southern Indiana
                    which were exposed on the bluffs along the banks of the Ohio River, drawing a
                    line from the mouth of the 
                        Wabash
                     to the southeastern corner of the state. In this cross section he recognized all the
                    principal formations, though many subdivisions and reclassifications have subsequently been made.
                    This work completed, he then ran "zigzag lines" south of the National Road to
                    determine the limits of the various formations which he had identified. He determined fairly
                    accurately the eastern boundary of the coal measures, showing that it would be " a useless
                    waste of time, money and labor to search for coal in any of the counties east of the second
                    principal meridian, or 
                  
                     8 For discussion of Dalton's and Faraday's work, see
                            William Cecil Dampier-Whetham, A History of Science and its Relations with
                                Philosophy and Religion (
                                New York
                            , 1931), 218-268; note especially pp. 225-231 and pp. 241-243. For a general
                            account of the birth of historical geology, consult Frank Dawson Adams, The
                                Birth and Development of the Geological Sciences (
                                New York
                            , 1964), 209-249. The volume cited is a republication of the first edition,
                            which appeared in 1938. For discussion of geological developments which preceded the
                            Darwinian theory, refer to Erik NordenskiÖd, The History of
                            Biology (Tudor, N.Y., 1942), 453-460; see especially pp. 455-457, which contain a
                            sketch of Lyell's life and treatment of his actualistic geology.
                  
                     9 For a brief account of Owen's domestic life, see Walter B.
                            Hendrickson, "David Dale Owen, Man of Science," Scientific
                                Monthly, LVI (March, 1943), 253-255.
               
                     east of the belt of limestones that succeed to the coal formation
                    on the east."10 In the autumn he continued his survey north of the
                    National Road. He found the area covered by drift, making it difficult to locate outcrops and to
                    identify formations. In 1838 he concerned himself mostly with economic geology, giving special
                    attention to the coals and building stones of the state and investigating conditions under which
                    salt water or lime occurred. David Dale Owen had a two year term of office and reported his
                    discoveries in two accountings.11
            
            An interesting side light on Owen's field activities and the preparations required is
                    furnished by Hendrickson: 
                        Owen's headquarters buzzed with activity throughout the winter and spring when he
                            was engaged on a survey. Many people of the town found employment there in outfitting the
                            various expeditions. Wagons and carriages were overhauled, tents mended, general camp
                            impedimenta renovated, and boxes made for specimens and cloth sacks made for soil samples.
                        For use in the field Owen designed a special wagon. It was a small, sturdy vehicle fitted
                            with lockers for carrying instruments and supplies, and having a prairie schooner-like top.
                            The geologist and his assistants often used a carriage for their own transportation while
                            the sub-agents and laborers rode in the wagons. Owen took pride in having small well-painted
                            wagons and fine animals to pull them….12
                  
                    
                
            Geology was a very young science in Owen's time. It had been widely held by learned people
                    that, as laid down in biblical teaching, the earth had been formed de novo by fiat
                    of the godhead merely a few thousand years B.C. It was not until near the close of the eighteenth
                    century when it had dawned on James Hutton that the earth carried its own self-story. Cuvier had
                    only founded paleontology in 1812, William Smith stratigraphy in 1815. Furthermore, it had been only
                    seven years before Owen's first report, namely in 1830, that Charles Lyell had applied the
                    inductive method to geological study and had clearly shown that earth processes still in 
                  
                     10 Blatchley, "A Century of Geology in Indiana," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (1916), 101.
                  
                     11 David Dale Owen, Report of a Geological Reconnoissance
                                of the State of Indiana, Made in the Yew 1837 …, Part First (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1859); Continuation of Report of a Geological Reconnoissance of
                                the State of Indiana …, Part Second (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1859).
                  
                     12 Hendrickson, "David Dale Owen, Man of Science,"
                                Scientific Monthly, LVI (March, 1943), 257.
               
                     operation were responsible for earth structures.13 Thought was still in the pre-Darwinian era. When nearly everybody believed in the creation
                    of the world and the forms of life upon it by divine decree, the geologist, forsooth, had to be
                    careful about what he said. Yet Owen was constrained to believe his own eyes and to trust his own
                    reason. Concerning the genesis of the stratified rocks of Indiana he wrote cautiously: "The
                    greater part of Indiana must have been, at some period of the earth's history covered by an
                    ocean; for most of the fossils in the limestones are of marine origin."14
            
            What he conceived the functions of a state geologist to be, Owen clearly outlined in the introduction
                    to his first report: 
                        The science of Geology, of comparatively modern date, is now universally conceded to be one,
                            not of mere curious inquiry, but of vast practical utility. It indicates, not only to the
                            closet philosopher a boundless field of conjecture, whereon to erect theories of creation
                            and systems of the world; but, to the manufacturer, the raw material whence mineral riches
                            are abundantly derived, and to the farmer, the means of improving soils that nature seems to
                            have disfavored.
                        I have considered it my duty, while surveying a country as new as ours, to remember that a
                            State just settling is like a young man starting in life, whom it behooves to secure to
                            himself a competency before he indulges in unproductive fancies. I have considered it the
                            most important object to search out the hidden resources of the State, and open new fields
                            of enterprise to her citizens. That object effected, time enough wil [sic]
                            remain to institute inquiries (which a liberal policy forbids 
                        
                           13 For comments on the work of Hutton, consult Adams, Birth and Development of the Geological Sciences, 238-245.
                                    Hutton's original paper, "Theory of the Earth," appeared
                                    in the first volume of the Transactions of the Royal Society of 
                                            Edinburgh
                                        
                           ; his two-volume treatise, Theory of the Earth with Proofs and
                                    Illustrations, was published at 
                                        Edinburgh
                                     in 1795. For information on the work of Cuvier, see
                                    NordenskiÖd, History of Biology, 331-343. Cuvier was
                                    the founder of modern comparative anatomy; his Leçons sur
                                        l'anatomie compareée came out in the years 1799-1805,
                                    his studies on fossils, Recherches sur les ossemens fossiles, in
                                    1812. For the earlier views concerning "figured stones" and the
                                    birth of paleontology refer again to Adams, Birth and Development of
                                        the Geological Sciences, 250-276; for information on the role of Cuvier in
                                    the development of paleontological science, see ibid., 263-268;
                                    for comments on William Smith's role, see ibid., 268-276.
                                    Smith has been called the Father of English Geology, Father of English Geology and
                                    of Stratigraphy, and was known colloquially as "Strata Smith."
                        
                           14 Owen, Report of a Geological Reeonnoissance of
                                        the State of Indiana Made in the Year 1837 …, 60.
                     
                             us to overlook) of a less productive and more abstract
                            character; inquiries which are interesting in a scientific, rather than a commercial, point
                            of view.15
                  
                    
                
            David Dale Owen laid a better foundation than he knew. He in fact laid the groundwork for subsequent
                    geological investigations, though he was himself fully aware that his work was merely preliminary
                    and that it would need to be followed by more detailed and comprehensive survey. He left directions
                    as to what future work would entail: 
                        If it be desired to make a minute geological survey of the State, it would be necessary to
                            make, with the aid of good instruments, correct topographical examinations and maps of all
                            the ridges and water courses, to ascertain the succession, thickness, dip and course of the
                            different strata; to collect diligently fossil organic remains; to analyze carefully all the
                            ores, coal, cements, marl, clays and soils, so as to estimate their intrinsic relative
                            value; to make experiments upon the durability of certain strata for building materials; to
                            polish different specimens of such strata as seem likely to afford good marble; to endeavor
                            to ascertain the correspondence, dip and prevalence of the various seams of coal, and
                            accurately determine their thickness and succession, and those of the intervening strata of
                            sandstone, shale, limestone and clay; to make a general collection of specimens, to be
                            arranged and deposited at the seat of government; to determine the nature and variety of the
                            vegetation peculiar to each formation; and, if means are provided, to make observations on
                            the natural history of Indiana generally; to examine carefully the various species to which
                            the fossils belong, and make a rigorous comparison between them and those found in other
                            parts of America and Europe, with a view of discovering the correspondence between our
                            formations and those of other parts of the 
                                United States
                             and the Eastern hemisphere.16
                  
                    
                
            It is remarkable that Owen's successors were able to carry out as much of this program as
                    they ultimately did, considering the limited funds placed at their disposal. In 1839 the legislature
                    passed an act providing for "an examination and report of the mineral resources of the
                    state, and for other purposes."17 At this time, however, the internal
                    improvement projects collapsed, and the state suffered from the depression which followed the Panic
                    of 1837. There is 
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 5, 6-7.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 62-63.
                  
                     17 Indiana, General Laws (1838-1839), 54.
               
                     no record that anyone was ever appointed to the position created.
                    For over a decade state direction and support for geological work completely languished.15 But though public effort was thus blocked by lack of state support,
                    individual initiative was not.
            In 1837 when David Dale Owen started his career in Indiana as a professional geologist, Dr. Asahel
                    Clapp of 
                        New Albany
                     was forty-five years old and at the height of his career as physician and scientist.
                    Two years earlier he had already begun to collect plant specimens from the Knobs region of southern
                    Indiana for his herbarium, a collection of sufficient importance to command the attention four
                    decades later of that prince of Indiana botanists, John Merle Coulter.19 A
                    number of Clapp's angiosperm specimens dated 1838-1839 may still be seen in the Stanley
                    Coulter Herbarium at Purdue University.20
            
            During Clapp's time the science of botany was young, and the botanist was chiefly a
                    taxonomist or collector. Collecting and classifying was a necessary preliminary role before the
                    botanist could become a morphologist studying the ontogeny of plants, or an ecologist. That is to
                    say, the first task confronting those engaged in botanical study was that of ordering plant forms
                    into system according to their natural relationships; only then were botanists prepared to proceed
                    to the study of the life histories of individual organisms themselves and to the investigation of
                    the mutual relations existing between organisms and their environment. This classificatory or
                    taxonomic phase was to persist for sixty-five years or so after the founding of the state, and Clapp
                    was among those who contributed to the work that was done. Collecting specimens in Clapp's
                    day must have been almost as trying an 
                  
                     18 Formal geological work languished till Owen was appointed state
                            geologist again. His findings were published in Report of a Geological
                                Reconnoissance of Indiana, Made During the Years 1859 and 1860 … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1862).
                  
                     19 John Merle Coulter, "An Interesting Herbarium,"
                                Botanical Bulletin, I (January, 1876), 9-10.
                  
                     20 C. L. Porter and J. N. Porter, "The Stanley Coulter
                            Herbarium at Purdue University," Proceedings of the Forty-sixth Annual
                                Meeting, Indiana Academy of Science (1930) (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Ind., 1931), 115-117. "I am happy to inform you that despite the
                            vicissitudes endured by theCoulter Herbarium, a number of Clapp specimens from the
                            Knob's region are still preserved." Grady L. Webster, Curator,
                            Phanerogamic Herbarium, Purdue University, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., to the author, December 14, 1959.
               
                     experience as it was in the time of Rafinesque, who had
                    reported: 
                        "Mosquitos and fleas will often anoy [sic] you or suck your blood
                            if you stop or leave a hurried step. Gnats dance before your eyes, and often fall in unless
                            you shut them; insects creep on you and into your ears. Ants crawl on you whenever you rest
                            on the ground; wasps will assail you like furies if you touch their nests. But ticks, the
                            worst of all, are unavoidable when you go among bushes, and stick to you in crowds, filling
                            your skin with pimples and sores. Spiders, gallineps, horseflies, and other obnoxious
                            insects, will often beset you or sorely hurt you."21
                  
                    
                
            Dr. Asahel Clapp was born in 
                  Hubbardstown, Massachusetts
               , on October 5, 1792. While he was
                    yet a child his family moved to 
                        Montgomery
                     in northern 
                        Vermont
                    . His formal medical education consisted solely of a precepteeship under a Dr. Chandler
                    at St. Albans, a town about twenty-five miles west of his home; he was not a graduate of a medical
                    college. He came to 
                        New Albany
                     in 1817 where he boarded with the family of one of the proprietors of the town, Joel
                    Scribner. He was not long in marrying one of the Scribner girls, Mary, who died August 30, 1821,
                    when only seventeen years of age. Shortly thereafter, he wedded Elizabeth, widow of Nathaniel
                    Scribner. Within the brief period of three years, Clapp became one of the most successful and
                    influential practitioners in the state. He has left a diary which gives much insight into medical
                    practices of the time.22
            
            Dr. Clapp was interested in geology as well as botany, studying—so it is
                    said—the German language after his sixtieth year in order to be able to read the
                    paleontological works of Goldfuss. He assembled a fine collection of fossil corals. Sir Charles
                    Lyell on his second journey to the United 
                  
                     21 C. S. Rafinesque, quoted in John M. Coulter, "A Century of
                            Botany in Indiana," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science
                            (1916), 237.
                  
                     22 Biographical sketch of Asahel Clapp written by Dr. R. W. Harris, 
                                New Albany
                            , Ind. Dr. Harris was a close friend of Asahel Clapp's son, Dr. William
                            Clapp, who was no longer living when the memoir was written. See Harris, quoted in L. G.
                            Zerfas, "Indiana Medicine in Retrospect, Asahel Clapp," Journal of the Indiana State Medical Association, XXIX (March, 1936), 142-143. A
                            photostatic copy of Clapp's diary, which covers the years 1819-1862, is on file in
                            the Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; for some of its medical content, consult Zerfas, "Medical Cases as
                            Reported in Asahel Clapp's Diary," Journal of the Indiana
                                State Medical Association, XXIX (April 1936), 199-200. See also, History of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities and Their Counties, with Illustrations and Biographical
                                Sketches (2 vole., 
                                Cleveland
                            , O., 1882), II, 229.
               
                     States visited 
                        New Albany
                     on April 4, 1846, to see these specimens and to be accompanied by Clapp to the Falls of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     to the ancient coral reef where they had been obtained. The specimens later were given
                    to 
                        Harvard
                     University to be kept intact as the Clapp Collection.23
            
            Clapp corresponded with the most eminent botanists of his time. As botanical science advanced, he
                    amended his notebooks, filling them with footnotes and marginal corrections. He made a systematic
                    catalogue, running to 222 pages, of the medicinal plants of the 
                        United States
                    
               24 and presented it at the meeting of the American Medical
                    Association in May, 1852. Dr. Clapp died at 
                        New Albany
                     a decade later, December 17, 1862.
            Among Indiana physician-naturalists Asahel Clapp is outstanding on two accounts. He achieved
                    recognition not only as a scientist, but also as a leader in his profession. When the original state
                    medical society was formed in 1820, Clapp was its first president.25 For reasons
                    which are not entirely clear, the society lapsed after a half-dozen years of existence, but
                    following the establishment of the present Indiana State Medical Society in 1849, Clapp became its
                    second president.26
            
            Among Clapp's physician-naturalist contemporaries was Dr. John T. Plummer, of 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana. In contrast to Clapp, who was quite active in public medical concerns,
                    Plummer remained detached from public professional affairs, feeling that too much of this sort of
                    activity was ostentatious.27 This detachment plus the fact that he published a
                        
                  
                     23 Harris, quoted in Zerfas, "Indiana Medicine in Retrospect,
                            Asahel Clapp," Journal of the Indiana State Medical Association,
                            XXIX (March, 1936), 143. For Lyell's account of his visit with Clapp, see Sir
                            Charles Lyell, A Second Visit to the 
                                    United States
                                 of North America (
                                London
                            , 1849), 277-278.
                  
                     24 A. Clapp, A Synopsis or Systematic Catalogue of the
                                Medicinal Plants of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1852).
                  
                     25 W. B. Fletcher, "Early State Medical Society,"
                                Transactions of the Indiana State Medical Society, Twenty-fourth Annual
                                Session (1874) (
                                Indianapolis
                            , n.d.), 26-27.
                  
                     26 Charles N. Combs, "History of the Indiana State Medical
                            Association," One Hundred Years of Indiana Medicine, 1849-1949,
                            ed. Dorothy R. Russo (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1949), 8-9. This second state medical organization, like the first, was called
                            the "Indiana State Medical Society" until 1903, when the word
                            "Society" was changed to "Association." Ibid., 14.
                  
                     27 Jacob R. Weist, "John Thomas Plummer, M.D.," History of 
                                    Wayne County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), I, 598. Weist (1834-1900) belonged to the generation of physicians
                            practicing at 
                                Richmond
                             following Plummer. See G. W. H. Kemper, A Medical History of the
                                State of Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1911), 363.
               
                     great many of his observations and studies in non-medical
                    periodicals doubtless explains why Plummer is an individual largely unknown in the annals of Hoosier
                    medicine. Nonetheless, John T. Plummer is the most important all-round scientist-physician of early
                    Indiana. He is almost as interesting a personality as Constantine Samuel Rafinesqu—not
                    quite so eccentric and not such a traveler, but just as industrious and as eager an inquirer.
                    Plummer in his writings made contributions to natural history, horticulture, geology, meteorology,
                    chemistry, botany, and other fields.28 The bibliography of his works includes
                    approximately 152 titles ranging all the way from pharmacy to philology.29
            
            Plummer was born March 7, 1807, in the same year as David Dale Owen. He was the oldest child and only
                    son of Joseph P. and Susannah Plummer, of 
                  Baltimore,
                            Maryland
               . When he was eight and a half
                    years old his mother died, and he was sent to a boarding school in 
                        New York
                     for four years. His father remarried in 1819 and then removed the family to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The family was Quaker by faith and in 1823 settled permanently at 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, stronghold of the Society of Friends. Here at 
                        Richmond
                     John T. Plummer lived until his death at the age of fifty-eight years, April 10,
                        1865.30
            
            Plummer, like so many of his contemporaries in early Indiana science, was largely self-educated. Dr.
                    James F. Hibberd, Nestor of nineteenth-century Hoosier medicine and one-time president of the
                    American Medical Association,31
                    
                  
                     28 Among these other fields was history. See R. O. Dormer & W.
                            R. Holloway (pubs.), A Directory to the City of 
                                    Richmond
                                 …, with A Historical Sketch by John T. Plummer, M.D. (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1857).
                  
                     29 Lawrence J. King and M. S. Markle, "Dr. John T. Plummer
                            (1807-1866): Pioneer Scientist of 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of
                            Science (1953) (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954), 255.
                  
                     30 James F. Hibberd, "Dr. John T. Plummer," Proceedings of the Establishment of Whitewater Monthly Meeting of the Religious
                                Society of Friends (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1909), 188-194. Refer also to King and Markle, "Dr. John T.
                            Plummer," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (1953),
                            255-260. No authentic picture of Plummer is known to exist, according to his granddaughter.
                            MIX. E. H. Anderson, 
                                Williamsburg
                            , Va., to Caroline Dunn, Librarian, Smith Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind, August 5, 1946.
                  
                     31 James F. Hibberd (1816-1903), like Plummer a native of 
                                Maryland
                             who removed to 
                                Richmond
                            , was nationally known. He was president of the Indiana State Medical Society in
                            1863, and president of the American Medical Association in 1894. See Kemper, A
                                Medical History of the State of Indiana, 284-286, and R. French Stone,
                            "James Farquhar Hibberd," Biography of Eminent American
                                Physicians and Surgeons (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1894), 216-217.
               
                     has left this record concerning Plummer's attitude
                    toward study: 
                        The testimony of his friends is that his boyhood was characterized by great devotion to
                            books, and a remarkable absence of, or indulgence in ordinary youthful sports and pastimes.
                            His own notes declare in speaking of these early days, that to ten years of age he was
                            careless of knowledge and playful, but somehow learned; from ten to thirteen studied
                            diligently; from thirteen to sixteen cared not for knowledge but wanted to be good; from
                            sixteen to nineteen, when the memorandum was made, was avaricious for knowledge, and was
                            "like the battle-steed rushing over the field of literature", and it may
                            be added that his desire for knowledge continued nearly unabated for the remainder of his
                                life.32
                  
                    
                
            Both at 
                        Cincinnati
                     and at 
                        Richmond
                     young Plummer essayed to clerk in his father's store but was a failure, since
                    patrons always found him so absorbed in a book that he neglected them. He gave himself entirely to
                    study, entering a precepteeship in medicine under Dr. Thomas Griffith of 
                        Richmond
                    . In 1827 he went to Yale College and was graduated from the Medical Department in 1828,
                    one week before attaining his twenty-first birthday. At Yale he studied chemistry with the renowned
                    Silliman. Plummer has left a diary of his trip to the East, of his studies, of his final
                    examination. This work is a treasured possession of the library of Earlham College at 
                        Richmond
                    . As recounted in his diary, while he was at 
                        New Haven
                    , Plummer met Noah Webster, and later, according to Hibberd, assisted this lexicographer
                    with some western words.33 In his assessment of Plummer's scientific
                    attainments Dr. Hibberd writes: 
                        Dr. Plummer's scientific acquirements were general and profound. He was a
                            naturalist, not a mere amateur or theorist, but an active and practical one, applying his
                            knowledge to the investigation of his surroundings, giving whatever was new or otherwise
                            interesting to the world through the periodicals, more particularly Silliman's
                            Journal, between the editor of which and himself there existed a warm personal friendship.
                        
                     
                        32 Hibberd, "Dr. John T. Plummer," Proceedings of the Establishment of Whitewater Monthly Meeting of the Religious
                                    Society of Friends, 189.
                     
                        33 In regard to Plummer's linguistic accomplishments
                                Hibberd remarks: "He … obtained by his own exertions, a good, nay a
                                critical knowledge of the English language. He studied Latin, Greek and Hebrew of the
                                dead, and French and German of the living languages, and acquired some knowledge of
                                several others." Ibid., 189-190.
                  
                        
                        His cabinet of specimens and preparations was at one time large, thoroughly classified, and
                            of especial value as illustrating the several departments of natural science as they were
                            developed in his immediate neighborhood. During the latter years of his life his impaired
                            health unfitted him for exercise of this kind, and he distributed his collections to
                            schools, and to other places where he thought them likely to do most good.34
                  
                    
                
            It is not possible in this article to more than indicate the broad scope of Plummer's
                    efforts. Characteristic of his medical writings is his series of reports on diseases in 
                        Richmond
                     for the years 1855-1856, which he made for the 
                  
                            Cincinnati
                         Medical Observer.
               35 That he was writing less for the
                    readers of his own day than for readers of a later time is clearly shown by his opening words:
                        
                        If the subjoined paragraphs have no immediate value, I will venture to say that in the course
                            of one hundred years (if they last that long), they will be looked upon as interesting
                            relics of a past age. The common-place occurrences in the streets of ancient Thebes, the
                            every-day incidents of "populous No," would now, if it
                            was possible to obtain a recital of them, or to pass them in review before us, attract the
                            attention of thousands. So, in its degree, is the medical history of any locality an object
                            of interest to the resident physician of an after period.36
                  
                    
                
            We are chiefly concerned here, however, with Plummer's work in natural history and geology.
                    The range of his interests was broad. For instance, in some of his letters to the editors of the American Journal of Science in the early forties he dealt with such divers
                    subjects as insects, peppergrasses, fossil teeth, snails, and late combustion in wood ashes! His
                    observations on the shrew constitute as interesting and keen a piece of writing in natural history
                    as one will find anywhere. He made extensive geological investigations in the 
                        Richmond
                     area, noted what he termed "Diluvial scratches"— 
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 190.
                  
                     35 John T. Plummer, "Diseases of 
                        Richmond, Wayne
                     
                            Co., Ind. for the Year 1855," 
                        
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Medical Observer, I (January, 1856), 5-11; "Diseases at the
                            close of 1855, and of the First and Second Months, 1856, at 
                        Richmond, Wayne
                     
                            Co., Ind.," ibid. (April, 1856), 147-154; "Diseases of
                                    
                        Richmond, Wayne
                      Co., Ind., for the Third and Fourth Months,
                            1856," ibid. (July, 1856), 289-294; "Diseases of
                                    
                        Richmond, Wayne
                      Co., Ind., during the Fifth and Sixth Months of 1856,
                                ibid. (August, 1856), 342-353; "Diseases of
                                    
                        Richmond, Wayne County
                     , Ind., During the Seventh Month, 1856,"
                            ibid. (October, 1856), 439-442.
                  
                     36 Plummer, "Diseases of 
                        Richmond, Wayne
                      Co., Ind.
                            for the Year 1855," ibid. (January, 1856), 5.
               
                     rectilinear engravings on the stone, now known to be glacial
                    markings—studied fossils of the vicinity, etc.37 In commenting on the
                    superficiality of the Owen survey he speaks thus: 
                        There is perhaps not a "nook of earth" which would not furnish some
                            interesting geological facts to persevering inquiry. But it cannot be expected that those
                            who act under the auspices of our legislatures comprehending large territories in their
                            examinations, whose researches are limited to a given period, should do more than give us
                            the great outlines of their subjects; the minuter delineations must be left, chiefly, to
                            those whose permanent location gives them an opportunity of closely Scrutinizing the
                            features of their immediate neighborhoods.33
                  
                     John T. Plummer's work was of sufficient importance that he is perhaps as
                    deserving of full-fledged biographical treatment as David Dale Owen.
            Although private scientific investigators such as Plummer continued their work, formal study of
                    Indiana's geology had been suspended with the termination of David Dale Owen's
                    survey in 1838. It was not until 1852 that Indiana was willing to take up again the question of
                    further geological survey in the state.39 This time it was Dr. Ryland T. Brown
                    who pushed the matter. Chafing under the delay, he delivered a lecture in the Hall of the House of
                    Representatives on the evening of January 22 on "The Geology of Indiana as an Element of
                    Wealth to the State." He maintained that not only should the geology and mineralogy of the
                    state as a whole be investigated, but also that the topography of each county should be studied as
                    well. Brown was authorized by the newly created State Board of Agriculture to act as its
                    "Geological Agent." His report entitled "Geological Survey of the State
                    of Indiana" appeared in the Third Annual Report of the … Board of
                        Agriculture in 1853.40 He identified the so-called "Cliff
                    rock" of the 
                        Ohio
                     geologists as the "corniferous limestone" of 
                        New York
                    , and introduced into Indiana scientific literature for the first time the term
                    "Niagara." He likewise was the first to praise the Indiana oÖitic lime-
                        
                  
                     37 John T. Plummer, "Suburban Geology, or Rocks, Soil and
                            Water About 
                        Richmond, Wayne County
                     , Indiana," American Journal
                                of Science and Arts, XLIV (April, 1843), 281-313.
                  
                     38 Ibid.
                  
                     39 Indiana, Special and Local Acts (1862), 164-165.
                  
                     40
                            Third Annual Report of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture for the Year
                            1853 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1854), 299-332.
               
                     stone.41 In the Fifth Report of
                        the … Board of Agriculture, 1856, he discussed "The Manufacturing
                    Capabilities of the Indiana Coal Field."42
            
            In 1859 David Dale Owen was appointed state geologist for the second time. He designated his brother,
                    Richard, as his chief assistant. When the survey was only partly finished, David Dale Owen died at 
                        New Harmony
                     of malarial fever, November 13, 1860. Richard Owen, who was more of a naturalist than
                    field geologist, carried on. The results of their work was published in 1862 under the title Report of a Geological Reconnoissance of Indiana Made During the Years 1859 and
                        1860.….43
            
            Between 1862 and 1869 little geological investigation was made in the state except by Dr. Ryland T.
                    Brown, who was not only the leader in this field but also prominent in scientific work in general.
                    In the Ninth Report of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture, 1867, he published
                    "An Essay on the Mineral Resources of Indiana" and in 1868 issued a pamphlet at
                    the request of Governor Conrad Baker entitled Indiana and her Resources.44 Finally it was he and other leading members of the State Board of Agriculture
                    who persuaded the state legislature in 1869 to pass the act authorizing a geological survey and
                    creating the permanent office of state geologist.45 This last service alone was
                    to prove of inestimable value both to the state in general and to Indiana geology in particular.
            Ryland T. Brown was one of the most versatile men ever to grace the state. Physician, geologist,
                    preacher, reformer, educator, his influence was widely felt. He was born in 
                        Lewis County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , October 6, 1807, the same year that David Dale Owen and John T. Plummer were born. In
                    1809 the family removed to 
                        Clermont County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . Young Ryland was of feeble constitution, so it was thought; hence he was permitted to
                    go to school instead of working. In 1821 the family moved again, settling in the southeastern part
                    of 
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 304, 810.
                  
                     42
                            Fifth Report of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture, Containing the
                                Transactions of the Board and Reports of County Societies, for the Year 1856 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1858), 492-511.
                  
                     43 The report was published in 
                                Indianapolis
                             in 1862.
                  
                     44
                            Ninth Report of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture, Containing the
                                Proceedings of the Board for the Years 1862 to 1867, Inclusive … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1867), 497-518; Ryland T. Brown, Indiana and Her Resources
                            … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1868).
                  
                     45 Laws of the State of Indiana (1869), 22-24.
               
                    
                    
                        Rush County
                    , Indiana, where the mother soon became midwife for the whole neighborhood. The three
                    years from 1826 to 1829 the son devoted exclusively to the study of medicine, mostly without
                    preceptor. In the last of these years he attended lectures at the 
                        Ohio
                     Medical College in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Returning to 
                        Rush County
                    , he was caught in the storm of religious controversies attendant upon the introduction
                    of the ideas of Alexander Campbell into the Little Flat Rock community not far from his home. 
                        Brown
                     became one of the Disciples and thereafter was to play a significant role in the
                    Christian Church in Indiana. In 1832 he located in 
                        Connersville
                     to practice medicine; meanwhile he preached extensively throughout the
                        Whitewater Valley. In 1844 he removed to 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . Here he availed himself of the library and apparatus of 
                        Wabash
                     College and became a devotee to natural science. So well did he do that Wabash granted
                    him an honorary A.M. degree. In 1858 Brown was elected to the chair of natural science at
                    Northwestern Christian University (later renamed 
                        Butler
                    ), retaining this post until 1871. A zealous advocate of temperance reform, he became
                    head of the state temperance organization. While still teaching at Northwestern Christian
                    University, he filled the chair of chemistry at Indiana Medical College at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and in 1874 accepted the professorship of physiology. In 1871 he prepared for
                    publication an elementary text on physiology and hygiene which was widely used in the common schools
                    and academies. Brown died May 3, 1890.46
            
            The systematic development of Indiana geology under the aegis of the state began in 1869.47 Edward Travers Cox, who had been chemical and geological assistant to David
                    Dale Owen in surveys in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Arkansas
                     and who had worked on the 
                        Illinois
                     coal survey, became state geologist, retaining the post until 1879 when he was
                    succeeded by John Collett. In Cox's report for 1869 and in the Eleventh Annual
                        Report of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture, 1869, there appeared an important
                    contribution written by Dr. 
                  
                     46 Madison Evans, Biographical Sketches of the Pioneer
                                Preachers of Indiana (Philadelhia, 1862), 300-314; Caroline Brown, "Dr.
                            Ryland Thomas Brown," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIII (March,
                            1927), 92-106; Warner, Beers & Co. (pubs.), History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 106.
                  
                     47
                            Laws of the State of Indiana (1869), 22-24.
               
                     Rufus Haymond on the geology, mammals, and birds of 
                        Franklin County
                    . Haymond here gave the first published faunal list of the mammals in Indiana, recording
                    32 species and listing 163 kinds of birds.48 Previously in 1856 he had issued a
                    paper on the "Birds of Southeastern Indiana" in the Proceedings of
                        the Academy of Natural Sciences of 
                            Philadelphia
                        .
               49 Now, expanding the scope of his earlier study, he
                    reported also on the topographical features of his home county, adding thereto an account of the
                    archeological remains, a description of the trees, mammals, and paleontology, etc. of this
                        locale.50 Following the death of Thomas Say at 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1834, there had been no further studies made of the fauna of Indiana until Haymond
                    began his work in the fifties.61
            
            Rufus Haymond was born June 5, 1805, near Clarksburg, 
                        West Virginia
                    . After serving a precepteeship under a Dr. Williams, he attended lectures in 
                        Philadelphia
                     to complete his training. He came west in 1826 seeking a location and settled at 
                        Brookville
                     in the Whitewater Valley. Here he practiced medicine for sixty
                    years. He was twice elected president of the 
                        Franklin County
                     Medical Society, once at the time of its founding in 1850, and again in 1869 when the
                    society was reorganized, after a period of inactivity. He served as a member of the state
                    legislature and had charge of the geological survey of 
                        Franklin County
                     in 1869. He died at 
                        Brookville
                    , July 29, 1886.52
            
            For many years Rufus Haymond explored the hills and valleys of 
                        Franklin County
                     alone, searching for the wild inhabitants of wood and thicket. The practical folk of
                    the 
                  
                     48 "Geology of 
                                Franklin County
                            : Dr. Rufus Haymond's Report of a Geological Survey of 
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana, Made During the Summer and Fall of 1869," First
                                Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, Made During the Year 1869
                            … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1869), 175-235.
                  
                     49
                            Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 
                                    Philadelphia
                                
                     , Vol. VIII (1856) (PhiladelDhia. 1857).
                  
                     50 See "Geology of 
                                Franklin County
                            ," First Annual Report of the Geological Survey of
                            Indiana, 195-197, 188-189, 175-188, 203-208, 209-235.
                  
                     51 Evermann, "A Century of Zoology in Indiana,
                            1816-1916," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (1916),
                            202.
                  
                     52 Interview with Miss Juanita Haymond, Hempstead, N.Y., formerly of
                            Waldron, Ind., June, 1947. Miss Haymond is a great-great-grand daughter of Calder Haymond,
                            brother of Dr. Rufus Haymond's grand father. See also Kemper, A
                                Medical History of the State of Indiana, 127; and Atlas of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 88. 97, 98.
               
                     area could not understand his singular impulsion for examining
                    the exhibits of nature. This explains why one of his later disciples, Edgar R. Quick, was led to
                    write of him: "For his liking for science he was an enigma to the ignorant, was ridiculed
                    by the foolish, and even wise men wondered how he could devote so much time and study to something
                    in which there was so little pecuniary profit."53 But Haymond had his
                    own definition of what was profitable. This is shown in an address he delivered about 1850 before
                    the youths of the 
                        Franklin
                     Lyceum in 
                        Brookville
                    : 
                        I am myself well persuaded that the study of nature is calculated both to make us better and
                            happier—to draw our minds away from the difficulties which are incident to life,
                            from our own evil passions and the bickerings and strife of those among whom we
                            live—in short from the artificial to the natural…. All nature, both
                            animate and inanimate, is worthy of your study and investigation, for there is not a stone
                            or pebble upon which you tread in your daily walks which has not an interesting history
                            which the mineralogist and geologist know how to read; not a plant or flower but has a
                            secret history, known only to the botanist; each beast and bird, fish and insect has also
                            its history, read only by the zoologist, ornithologist, and so on. Much of this knowledge is
                            in reach of all of you who are young and have sufficient energy and industry to occupy that
                            portion of your time in study which ia usually wasted in idleness or thrown away in pursuits
                            that are wholly unprofitable.54
                  
                    
                
            The measure of a man's contribution to society is not determined solely by his individual
                    work, for assuredly in final assessment his influence in stimulating others to effort must also be
                    taken into account. And Haymond was the inspiration for that group of young men, who, led by Amos
                    Butler, organized the 
                        Brookville
                     Society of Natural History in 1881. While still a youth, Butler came under the
                    influence of Haymond, from whom he received both information and encouragement. For its first five
                    years this society was very active, entertaining a number of distinguished lecturers in science,
                    stimulating investigation, and issuing a short series of bulletins. But most important, through the
                    further efforts 
                  
                     53 E. R. Quick, "Dr. Rufus Haymond," Bulletin of the 
                                    Brookville
                                 Society of Natural History, No. 3 (College Corner, O., 1888), 24.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 23.
               
                     of 
                        Butler
                     it gave rise to the founding of the Indiana Academy of Science in 1885.55
            
            One year before Haymond settled at 
                        Brookville
                     in 
                        Franklin County
                    , Dr. William T. S. Cornett located at 
                        Versailles
                     in neighboring 
                        Ripley County
                    . Though the two men were the same age and must have crossed over into each
                    other's territory on their professional calls, there is no record that they had much
                    influence on one another. Haymond was interested in natural science from the start; Cornett, on the
                    contrary, devoted his most active years to medical affairs. When the Indiana State Medical Society
                    was organized in 1849, Cornett became its first president, thus preceding Asahel Clapp in this
                    office. It was only after his retirement from practice and his removal to 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, in 1867 that Cornett made his distinctive contribution to Indiana geology and
                    stratigraphy.
            W. T. S. Cornett was born July 11, 1805, at 
                        Carrollton
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    . While Cornett was yet an infant, his father died and his upbringing devolved on his
                    mother. After receiving a common school education, he was sent to Transylvania University at
                            
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , to study Latin and Greek. Subsequently, against his wishes
                    he was placed under a physician for three years as a preceptee in medicine. He developed a liking
                    for the profession and became a diligent student sufficiently concerned about his future to return
                    to Transylvania University for a full course of lectures during the winter of 1823-1824.56 The faculty of the medical department of this school was at the time the most
                    distinguished in the West. Cornett was privileged to come under the guidance of the peerless Daniel
                    Drake, who had just returned to 
                        Lexington
                     to teach for the second time at Transylvania University.57 On
                    settling in a practice, Cornett rapidly came into prominence. 
                  
                     55 Nadine K. Fichter, "The 
                                Brookville
                             Society of Natural History," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XLII (December, 1946), 305-306; Amos W. Butler, "Early History of the
                            Indiana Academy of Science," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of
                                Science, Thirty-ninth Annual Meeting, 1923 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924), 14-18; Will E. Edington, "There Were Giants in Those
                            Days," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (1934) (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1935), 27-31; Marcus Ward Lyon, Jr., "Amos William Butler,"
                                Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (1937) (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1938), 21-25.
                  
                     56 Stone, "William T. S. Cornett," Biography of Eminent American Physicians and Surgeons, 98-99.
                  
                     57 Juettner, Daniel Drake and His Followers, 44,
                            56-57.
               
                     As delegate from his district to the meeting of the original
                    Indiana State Medical Society about 1826, he took with him a paper prepared for presentation, but
                    finding that no one else except the president had done similarly, he took it home with him without
                    reading it.58 This paper, however, was a start at writing; and after abridging
                    the essay, he published it in the Western Journal of the Medical and Physical
                    Sciences, owned and edited by Drake who was now in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Other contributions on medical topics to various journals followed.59 In addition to his scientific work, beginning in 1841 Cornett represented 
                        Ripley County
                     in the state senate for six years.60 He died at 
                        Madison
                    , May 6, 1897, at the age of ninety-one years.
            Besides his many other activities Dr. Cornett was an earnest and informed geologist. Though much of
                    his extensive collection of geological specimens had been secured from the Laughery
                    hills and valleys in 
                        Ripley County
                    , it was after his removal to 
                        Madison
                     that he made his investigations concerning the Silurian formations of 
                        Jefferson County
                    . Knowledge concerning the stratigraphy around 
                        Madison
                     had been in a great state of uncertainty ever since David Dale Owen and his brother
                    Richard in 1862 had studied the strata in the hills behind and above the town. Cornett's
                    work presented clear conceptions concerning these formations for the first time, through conclusions
                    based on identification of the species existent in the fossiliferous rocks of the series. He
                    published his findings in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, July 10, 1874.61 Cornett showed "that Lower
                    Silurian fossils extended much farther up the section at 
                        Madison
                     than had formerly been supposed, and that on this account it was necessary to place the
                    line of separation between the Lower and Upper Silurian at a considerably higher level."62 In fact, his discovery raised the line of separation thirty-four feet higher
                    than it had been 
                  
                     58 Cornett, "Reminiscences," Transactions of the Indiana State Medical Society (1874), 30-31.
                  
                     59 For a list of some of these contributions, see Kemper, A Medical History of the State of Indiana, 256.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., 255.
                  
                     61 W. T. S. Cornett, "Testimony of the Rocks; The Geology of
                            the Madison Hills," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 10, 1874, 2-3.
                  
                     62 Aug[ust] F. Foerste, "A General Discussion of the Middle
                            Silurian Rocks of the 
                                Cincinnati
                             Anticlinal Region, With Their Synonymy," Indiana,
                                Department of Geology and Natural Resources, Twenty-fourth Annual Report
                            … (1899) (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1900), 61.
               
                     placed. Confusion persisted for some time after
                    Cornett's report, however, because of a curious blunder on the part of William W. Borden,
                    who made the geological surveys of 
                        Jennings
                     and 
                        Ripley counties
                     in 1875.63 Even though Borden was familiar with and quoted from
                    Cornett's article, he nevertheless misinterpreted it and failed to recognize that
                    Cornett's disclosures removed the sandy limestones identified by Borden as Clinton
                    completely from the Upper Silurian classification and established their Lower Silurian age. This
                    mistake had had the important consequence of leading the eminent paleontologist of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , s. A. Miller, "to deny the existence of the Clinton in the entire State of
                    Indiana, and made him unwilling to recognize any species published as coming from the Clinton of
                    Indiana, 
                        Ohio
                     or 
                        Kentucky
                     as being of anything but Niagara age.64
            
            In Cox's second report as state geologist there is mentioned a new assistant in the
                    department, Professor John Collett, of 
                        Vermillion County
                    .65 The frugal James D. (Blue Jeans) Williams became governor of
                    Indiana in 1877. In the act passed March 29, 1879, establishing a state Bureau of Statistics and
                    Geology, only $3,700 a year was allowed for all salaries and expenses.66 Cox's appropriations had at first been $5,000, then after 1873,
                    $8,000. Cox refused to continue on this stinted allowance, so that on April 25, 1879,
                    John Collett succeeded him.67 Fortunately, after Albert G. Porter became
                    governor an act, approved April 14, 1881, was passed which separated the departments of statistics
                    and geology and increased the amount of grant.68 Even so it is remarkable 
                  
                     63 William W. Borden, in Seventh Annual Report of the
                                Geological Survey of Indiana, Made During the Year 1875 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1876), 146-180, 181-202. According to Foerste, Borden's errors are
                            shown on pages 159, 160, 167, and 184, where he discusses the section at 
                                Madison
                            .
                  
                     64 Foerste, "A General Discussion of the Middle Silurian
                            Rocks of the 
                                Cincinnati
                             Anticlinal Region," Indiana, Department of Geology and
                                Natural Resources, Twenty-fourth Annual Report … (1899), 51. Samuel A.
                            Miller, author of North American Geology and Palaeontology for the Use of
                                Amateurs, Students, and Scientists (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1889), was a collector and describer of 
                                Ohio
                             fossils who attempted to define all the genera of paleozoic fossils found in
                            North America.
                  
                     65
                            Second Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, Made During the Year
                            1870 … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1871), 6.
                  
                     66
                            Laws of the State of Indiana Passed at the Special Session of …
                            1879, 193-195.
                  
                     67 Blatchley, "A Century of Geology in Indiana," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (1916), 144-146.
                  
                     68
                            Laws of the State of Indiana (1881), 523-624.
               
                     that Collett accomplished what he did on the slender funds
                    furnished him.
            During the decade that Cox was state geologist, no physicians served in the Department of Geology
                    other than Dr. Rufus Haymond for the year 1869. During the Collett regime, however, things were
                    quite different; three physicians—Drs. Ryland T. Brown, Moses N. Elrod, and A. J.
                    Phinney—were employed regularly as field assistants for county surveys, while other
                    medical men were at times called upon for special work. After Collett left office in 1885, only the
                    names of Phinney and 
                        Brown
                     appear on the roster of personnel of the Department of Geology for the report made in
                    1886; Elrod is mentioned in the reports issued in 1891 and 1894. Thereafter, participation by
                    physicians in the geological activities carried on by the state ceased.66
            
            The extent to which doctors of medicine dominated the field of geology and natural history in the
                    state in the early 1880's is indicated by the roster as set down in the Fourteenth Annual Report in 1884.
            
                    John Collett, A.M., M.D., Ph.D. Chief of Department, and State Geologist.
                    Field-Work Assistants. Ryland T. Brown, M.D., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind. Moses N. Elrod, M.D., Hartsville, Ind. A. J. Phinney, M.D., 
                            Muncie
                        , Ind. Rev. D. S. McCaslin, A.M., Pullman, Ill.
                    Special Assistants.
                    Botanist. Prof. John M. Coulter, A.M., 
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Ind.
                    Chemist. John N. Hurty, M.D., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Comparative Anatomist. Alembert W. Brayton, M.D., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Conchologist. Fred. Stein, M.D., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Entomologist. Ralph St. J. Perry, M.D., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    
                  
                     69 See the geological reports issued by the state from 1869 till the
                            end of the century.
               
                    
                    Ornithologist and Taxidermist. Fletcher M. Noe, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Herpetologist and Ichthyologist. Prof. Oliver P. Hay, 
                            Irvington
                        , Ind.
                    Paleontologists. Prof. Ed. D. Cope, 
                            Philadelphia
                        . Prof. Jas. L. Wortman, 
                            Philadelphia
                        .70
               
                
            It will be noticed that John Collett himself had the M.D. degree. He was not a physician but had
                    received this title as an honorary one from the Central College of Physicians and Surgeons of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1882. Born January 6, 1828, Collett had entered the preparatory department of 
                        Wabash
                     College in 1838 and graduated from this school in 1847. Twice thereafter his alma mater
                    conferred honorary degrees upon him in recognition of his scientific attainments; the A.M. degree
                    was conferred in 1852 and the Ph.D. degree in 1879.71
            
            
               
                  70
                        Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History (Fourteenth Annual Report)
                            … 1884 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1884), Part I, 4. Among Collett's special assistants, three of those who
                        were not physicians are outstanding figures. Cope was already internationally known, while Hay
                        and Coulter were to become so. Collett had submitted to Cope for determination and study such
                        vertebrate remains as had been found in Indiana, and the latter, assisted by Wortman, was now
                        publishing his report. Edward D. Cope and Jacob L. Wortman, "An Account of the
                        Mammalian Fauna of the Post-Pliocene Deposits in the State of Indiana," ibid., Part 11, 4-55. Hay at this time was professor of biology and geology at 
                            Butler
                         University and making studies in Indiana herpetology. His report, however, was
                        published after Collett left office. O. P. Hay, "The Amphibians and Reptiles of
                        Indiana," Thirty-sixth Annual Report of the Indiana State Board of
                            Agriculture (1886) (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1887), 201-227. Hay is now known chiefly as a vertebrate paleontologist. Of
                        special interest to Indiana students is his monograph, "The Pleistocene Period and its
                        Vertebrata," Thirty-sixth Annual Report of Department of Geology and
                            Natural Resources, Indiana … 1911 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1912), 539-784. Coulter, while professor of natural sciences at 
                            Hanover
                         College, had already issued a study on the flora of his local area. John M.
                        Coulter, "A Partial List of the Flora of 
                            Jefferson County
                        , Indiana," Sixth Annual Report of the Geological Survey of
                            Indiana, Made During the Year 1874 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1875), 230-273. In 1879, at the time Collett became state geologist, Coulter had
                        removed to 
                            Wabash
                         College as professor of biology. As in the case of Hay, Coulter's report
                        on the Indiana flora made in conjunction with Harvey Thompson did not appear till Collett had
                        left office. John M. Coulter and Harvey Thompson, "The Origin of the Indiana
                        Flora," Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History, Fifteenth
                            Annual Report… 1886 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1886), 253-282.
               
                  71 "John Collett," Encyclopedia of Biography of Indiana,
                        ed. George Irving Reed (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1895-1899), II 234-238. See also A Biographical History of Eminent
                            and Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1880), I, 7th dist., 23-25; and Will Cumback and J. B. Maynard (eds.), Men of Progress, Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1899), 435-437.
            
            
            The veteran Dr. Ryland T. Brown, as field-work assistant to Collett and to Maurice Thompson between
                    the years 1881 and 1886, made the surveys of 
                  Fountain,
                            Marion
               , 
                        Morgan
                    , 
                  Hamilton, Madison
               , and 
                        Hancock counties
                    . Before this in 1876 he had written a general discussion of the geology and topography
                    of the state for the Illustrated Historical Atlas of the State of Indiana (
                        Chicago
                    , [1876]).72 The other two physicians serving in like capacity,
                    Elrod and Phinney, have never received the credit due them for their services to Indiana geology and
                    Indiana science. Among Collett's special assistants one, John N. Hurty, who was later
                    colorful head of the state Department of Health, is well known to the Hoosier public; but that he
                    was once chemist for the Department of Geology needs to be pointed out.73 Of the
                    other 
                        Indianapolis
                     physicians serving Collett in special roles, only Alembert Winthrop Brayton need be
                    mentioned here.
            Dr. Brayton, a distinguished 
                        Indianapolis
                     dermatologist and medical journalist, was born at 
                  Avon, New York
               , March 4,
                    1848. In 1863 his family moved to 
                        Blue Island
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , just south of 
                        Chicago
                    . After completing high school, Brayton attended the 
                        Cook County
                     Normal School at 
                        Englewood
                     from which he was graduated in 1869. He became principal of the Glencoe schools, and
                    soon thereafter was elected professor of natural science at the normal school, his alma mater.
                    Before entering this position, however, he went to Cornell University in 1871-1872 for further
                    study. Here he had for classmate and instructor, David Starr Jordan. At the completion of his
                    sophomore year lack of funds forced Brayton to return to 
                        Cook County
                     to teach biology. In January, 1877, 
                  
                     72 Ryland T. Brown, "
                                Fountain County
                            , Geology, Geography, etc.," Indiana, Department of
                                Geology and Natural History (Eleventh Annual Report) … 1881 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1882), 89-125; "Report of a Geological and Topographic Survey of 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana," Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural
                                History (Twelfth Annual Report) … 1882 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 79-99; of 
                                Morgan County
                            , Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History (Thirteenth Annual Report)
                            … 1883 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1884), Part I, 71-85; "Geological and Topographical Survey of 
                                Hamilton
                             and 
                                Madison Counties
                            , Indiana, 1884," Indiana, Department of Geology and
                                Natural History (Fourteenth Annual Report) … 1884 (
                                Indianapolis
                             1884), Part I 20-40; "
                                Hancock County
                            ," Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History,
                                Fifteenth Annual Report … 1886 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1886), 187-197.
                  
                     73 For an account of Hurty's activities as secretary of the
                            Indiana State Board of Health, see Thurman B. Rice, "History of the Indiana State
                            Board of Health, One Hundred Years of Indiana Medicine, 1849-1949, ed.
                            RUSSO, 44-47.
               
                     at the earnest solicitation of 
                        Jordan
                    , who was then professor of natural history in Northwestern Christian University (
                        Butler
                    ) and in the Indiana Medical College, Brayton came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     where he completed his university course at 
                        Butler
                    , receiving a B.S. degree in 1878 and an M.S. in 1880. Later, in recognition of his work
                    in zoology graduate degrees were also conferred on him by both Indiana and Purdue universities. In
                    the summer of 1877, he accompanied 
                        Jordan
                     and others on an ichthyological expedition into the southern Allegheny
                        mountain region under the auspices of the 
                        United States
                     Fish Commissioner. The streams from 
                        Greenville
                    , 
                        South Carolina
                    , to 
                        Atlanta
                    , and from 
                        Chattanooga
                     on west to 
                        Nashville
                     were seined and a number of new species of fish were discovered. The result of this
                    research was published jointly by Jordan and Brayton in the Bulletin of the 
                            United States
                         National Museum, No. 12.74 Brayton also spent the
                    following summer with 
                        Jordan
                     in ichthyological research. But Brayton's efforts were not limited to the
                    study of fishes; he was also interested in ornithology and mammalogy. In 1879 in the Transactions of the Indiana Horticultural Society he published a seventy-eight-page
                    monograph entitled, "A Catalogue of the Birds of Indiana, with Keys and Descriptions of the
                    Greatest Interest to the Horticulturist." In 1882 his "Report on the Mammals of 
                        Ohio
                    " was published in the Report of the Geological Survey of 
                            Ohio
                        
               .75
            
            
               
                  74 Stone, Biography of Eminent American Physicians and
                            Surgeons, 58-59; David Starr Jordan and Alembert W. Brayton, "On the
                        Distribution of the Fishes of the Alleghany Region of 
                     South
                                Carolina, Georgia
                  , and 
                            Tennessee
                        , with Descriptions of New or Little Known Species" (Contributions to North American Ichthyology, III, Part A), in Bulletin of
                            the 
                                United States
                             National Museum, No. 12 (
                            Washington, D.C.
                        , 1878).
               
                  75 Alembert W. Brayton, "A Catalogue of the Birds of Indiana,
                        with Keys and Descriptions of the Groups of Greatest Interest to the Horticulturist,"
                            Transactions of the Indiana Horticultural Society for 1879 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1879), 87-165; "Report on the Mammals of 
                            Ohio
                        ," Report of the Geological Survey of 
                                Ohio
                            
                  , Vol. IV, Part I: Zoology (
                            Columbus
                        , O., 1882), 1-186. Brayton's monograph, according to Stanley Coulter, was
                        prepared on the mammals of Indiana, but the Indiana Department of Geology considered it too
                        extended to print. Thereupon Brayton substituted "
                            Ohio
                        " for "Indiana" and issued the work in 
                            Ohio
                        . See Marcus Ward Lyon Jr., "The Mammals of Indiana," American Midland Naturalist, XVII (January, 1936), 384. Amos Butler later issued his
                        own monograph on "The Birds of Indiana" in 1897 in Indiana,
                            Department of Geology and Natural Resources, Twenty-second Annual Report …
                        1897 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1898) 515-1187. 
                            Butler
                         felt that his publication would be useful since Brayton's catalogue had
                        long been out of print and his own catalogue of 1890 practically exhausted. Thus the studies on
                        Indiana birds begun by Haymond and carried on by Brayton found full realization in the work of 
                            Butler
                        .
            
            
            In one respect Alembert W. Brayton is different from other Indiana physician-naturalists who have
                    been discussed thus far; his studies in science were well under way by the time he started his
                    medical career. This fact is significant in that it heralds the beginning of the change from
                    generalism to specialism. A generation or so later, the trend toward specialization was to dictate
                    that the young man in medicine had to become either medical scientist or medical practitioner, that
                    he could not successfully become both. Medical knowledge was rapidly expanding; medical education
                    had passed from the days of precepteeship to those of full attendance at medical school, and the
                    requirements of practice had become all demanding. Brayton's medical studies which had
                    begun in 
                        Chicago
                     were continued in 
                        Indianapolis
                     where he was graduated from the Medical College of Indiana in 1879. In the autumn
                    thereafter he was appointed professor of chemistry, toxicology, and medical jurisprudence in the
                    College of Physicians and Surgeons, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he conducted two full courses of lectures. In 1881 he was elected professor of
                    these subjects in the Medical College of Indiana, where four years later he was transferred to the
                    chair of physiology, and then afterwards to the chair of pathology, clinical medicine, and
                        dermatology.76 For six years Brayton was on the editorial staff of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal, and from 1892 to 1911 he was editor of the Indiana
                        Medical Journal. He was president of the Indiana State Medical Society in 1902. Dr. Brayton
                    died at the age of seventy-eight years, September 21, 1926.77
            
            Brayton belongs to both the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. His interest in natural science
                    identifies him with the nineteenth century; his medical career was twentieth 
                  
                     76 In these statements the writer has been following Stone, Biography of Eminent American Physicians and Surgeons, 60, who it
                            appears—since he was on the scene at the time—ought to know. However,
                            in the matter of the existence of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Indiana, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , at the date mentioned, he is in disagreement with Burton D. Myers. There were
                            several medical schools in 
                                Indianapolis
                             in the seventies and eighties with similar names. According to Myers, the
                            College of Physicians and Surgeons of Indiana was in existence from 1873 to 1878. The
                            Medical College of Indiana, formed by union of the Indiana Medical College (1869-1878) and
                            the College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (1873-1878), existed from 1878 to 1905. See Burton D. Myers, "A
                            History of Medical Education in Indiana," One Hundred Years of Indiana
                                Medicine, 1849-1949, ed. RUSSO, 59, 62, 63-64.
                  
                     77
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, September 22, 1926.
               
                     century in character. Contemporary with Brayton in Indiana
                    science, but still of the old school in medicine is Moses N. Elrod. The contrast between the two men
                    could scarcely be greater—Brayton, a resident of the metropolis, moving in university and
                    medical school circles, editor, and specialist consultant; Elrod, the village dweller, the detached
                    inquirer, the general practitioner sought after only by the sick of his own community. Moses N.
                    Elrod is a shining example of what was at times accomplished even by the isolated rural physician.
                    Elrod began by collecting fossils at Tarr Hole near his home at Hartsville in 
                        Bartholomew County
                     where the Waldron shale with its magnificent treasure trove of Middle Silurian or
                    Niagaran fossils outcrops on Big Clifty just as it does at the better-known site at the confluence
                    of Deer Creek with Conn's Creek in 
                        Shelby County
                    . When John Collett wanted an assistant to make the survey of 
                        Bartholomew County
                     in 1881, Dr. Moses N. Elrod was chosen. In conjunction with E. S. McIntire, Elrod had
                    already made a survey of 
                        Orange County
                     in 1875, so that he was not without experience. In the years that followed, this
                    physician conducted the geological surveys of 
                  Decatur,
                            Rush, Fayette
               , and
                    Union counties, all in his part of the state. Finally in 1891 he and A. C. Benedict surveyed 
                        Wabash County
                    . It was Elrod who first recognized clearly in 1883 that there were two shales in the
                    Niagara formations: one near the top, the Waldron shale, and one at the base which he called the
                    Lower Niagara shale (
                        Osgood
                    ). The fossil crinoid, Euculyptocrinus elrodi, which he found at Tarr
                    Hole was named after him, as were certain other paleontological specimen.78
            
            
               
                  78 M. N. Elrod and E. S. McIntire, "
                            Orange County
                        ," Seventh Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana,
                            Made During the Year 1875 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1876), 203-239. Moses N. Elrod, "Geology of 
                            Bartholomew County
                        ," Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History
                            (Eleventh Annual Report) … 1881 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1882), 150-213; "Geology of 
                            Decatur County
                        ," Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History (Twelfth
                            Annual Retort) … 1882 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1883), 100-152; "Geology of 
                            Rush County
                        , Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History (Thirteenth Annual
                            Report) … 1883 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1884), Part I, 86-115; "Geologilcal and Topographical Survey of 
                            Fayette County
                        , Indiana," Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History
                            (Fourteenth Annual Report) … 1884 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1884), Part I, 41-60; "Geological and Topographical Survey of Union
                        County, Indiana," ibid., 61-72; Moses N. Elrod and A. C. Benedict,
                        "Geology of 
                            Wabash County
                        ," Indiana Department of Geology and Natural Resources,
                            Seventeenth Annual Report … 1891 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1892), 192-272.
            
            
            Dr. Moses Newton Elrod was born near 
                        Orleans
                    , 
                        Orange County
                    , Indiana, April 4, 1838. He attended the old Hartsville College at Hartsville,
                    subsequently studying medicine under Dr. John Sloan, of 
                        New Albany
                    , and attending medical lectures in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . He began practice at Hardinsburg in 1861. At the outbreak of the Civil War he enlisted
                    in the Twenty-fourth Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment and was assigned to duty as a hospital
                    steward. He was soon discharged, however, because of ill health. In the spring of 1862 he applied
                    for duty again, and this time was appointed acting assistant surgeon at Hospital No. 1, 
                        New Albany
                    , where he remained until the close of the war. During this period he contracted an
                    infection which crippled his right leg so that he was forced to walk with crutch and cane the rest
                    of his life. Following his war service, Elrod was graduated from the 
                        Kentucky
                     School of Medicine at 
                        Louisville
                    . He set up his practice at Doverhill, Indiana, but poor health soon necessitated his
                    return to Orleans. Here he served as postmaster for six years. During this time he studied law
                    independently and was finally admitted to the bar. He taught natural science at the Southern Indiana
                    Normal School at Paoli. In 1877 he removed to Hartsville where he practiced medicine actively until
                    1897, when he took up residence in 
                        Columbus
                    , where he died May 20, 1907.79
            
            That Moses N. Elrod had the true spirit of investigation is shown by the botanical studies which he
                    carried out in his own garden at 
                        Columbus
                     after his retirement. How rare such keen interest in nature that one without equipment,
                    using only such objects of study as were at hand and the simplest of means, should spend his last
                    summers still seeking to clarify some of the problems of nature. In the method he employed in these
                    last investigations, Elrod passed beyond what any of his physician-naturalist
                    compeers—with the sole exception of John Thomas Plummer—had done; he proceeded
                    from mere observation to experimentation. Even Brayton, forerunner of the new era in medicine though
                    he was, still remained a taxonomist, or classifier, like his predecessors. Working with trumpet
                    vines, Elrod noticed in July, 1902, that the stigma of Tecoma radicans was
                    sensitive. 
                  
                     79 Thomas S. Elrod, son of Moses Elrod, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., to the author, May 23, 1949,
               
                     He at first thought that he had made an original discovery but
                    later found that he had been anticipated, for the phenomenon had already been reported in
                    Muller's Fertilization of Flowers. Nevertheless, Elrod proceeded with
                    experiments designed to test the sensitiveness of the stigmas and the conditions under which
                    cross-fertilization was effectual.80
            
            Dr. Arthur John Phinney is a physician-naturalist who may be placed with Elrod in contradistinction
                    to Alembert W. Brayton with regard to involvement in public medical concerns. In many respects Elrod
                    and Phinney are similar since both had particular interest in geology. As Collett had chosen Elrod
                    to assist him in the project of surveying the individual counties of the state so did he select
                    Arthur J. Phinney. Though Phinney is known in scientific circles, he is not remembered in relation
                    to Indiana medicine. G. W. H. Kemper in his Medical History of the State of
                    Indiana does not even mention him, and gives him little notice in his History of 
                            Delaware County
                        
               ,81 albeit Kemper and Phinney were contemporaries living
                    and practicing in the same city, 
                        Muncie
                    . A possible explanation of the fact that Phinney's name is not connected with
                    medicine is that he was a homeopath, a graduate of Pulte Medical College of 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1877. Regular physicians gave scant recognition in those days to those whom they
                    considered irregulars.
            Arthur John Phinney was born near 
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               , August 27, 1850. He attended Geauga
                    Seminary, Oberlin College, and Allegheny College, devoting special attention to the sciences and
                    mathematics. He took his first course of medical lectures in the medical department of Wooster
                    University before going to Pulte. After his graduation Phinney practiced for a year at Galion, 
                        Ohio
                    , then located in 
                        Muncie
                     in 1878.82 Being deeply interested in botany, he began working on
                    the flora of his neighborhood. In 1883 in the Twelfth Annual Report of the Geological
                        Survey, he published a 
                  
                     80 Moses N. Elrod, "Botanical Notes," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science, 1903 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1904), 119-128.
                  
                     81 Kemper mentions Phinney's name only in the listing of 
                                Muncie
                             physicians. See G. W. H. Kemper (ed.), A Twentieth Century History
                                of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), I, 30.
                  
                     82 A. W. Bowen & Co. (pub.), A Portrait and
                                Biographical Record of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1894), 404-405. See also, Will E. Edington, "Arthur John
                            Phinney," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (1942) (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1943), 7-8.
               
                     "Catalogue of the Flora of Central Eastern
                        Indiana."83 In this record he classified 720 plants, including
                    grasses, sedges, rushes, and flowers. He made the geological survey of 
                        Delaware County
                     in 1881, of 
                        Randolph
                     in 1882, of Grant in 1883, of Henry and parts of 
                  Randolph, Delaware
               , and 
                        Wayne counties
                     in 1886.84 According to one sketch about him, 
                        On the discovery of natural gas, the doctor began the study of the phenomenon minutely and
                            scientifically, keeping a record of all the data obtainable throughout the State of Indiana,
                            including records of all the geological strata passed through in
                            drilling—thickness, altitude, depth of Trenton limestone; whether gas, oil or
                            water was found, total depth of well and other minute facts, and securing and labelling
                            samples of drillings. By these data he was enabled to determine the limits of the field, and
                            was the first to accurately define it. These reports were made the base of a series of
                            articles … published in the American Manufacturer and Iron World, in December,
                            and afterward, in full, in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             News, and in the Petroleum Age, at Bradford, Pa., and attracted profound
                            attention throughout the country. Major J. W. Powell, director of the 
                                United States
                             geological survey, impressed with the thoroughness of the work done, appointed
                            the doctor 
                                United States
                             geological surveyor for a continuation of the survey of the Indiana gas field
                            and directed a complete report to be made thereon. This was a labor of three years, and
                            forms a part of the eleventh annual report of the 
                                United States
                             geological survey.85
                  
                    
                
            Arthur J. Phinney was one of the charter members of the Indiana Academy of Science. He amassed both
                    books 
                  
                     83 A. J. Phinney, "Catalogue of the Flora of Central-Eastern
                            Indiana (Alpine, or Elevated, District of the State), Indiana, Department of
                                Geology and Natural History, (Twelfth Annual Report) … 1882 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 196-236.
                  
                     84 A. J. Phinney, "Geology of 
                                Delaware County
                            ," Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History
                                (Eleventh Annual Report) …1881 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1882), 126-149; Geology of 
                                Randolph County
                            ," Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History
                                (Twelfth Annual Report) … 1882 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 177-196; "Geology of 
                                Grant County
                            ," Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History
                                (Thirteenth Annual Report) … 1883 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1884), Part I, 138-153; "
                                Henry County
                             and Portions of 
                        Randolph,
                                    Wayne
                      and 
                                Delaware
                            ," Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History
                                (Fifteenth Annual Report) … 1886 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1886), 97-116.
                  
                     85 Bowen and Co. (pub.), A Portrait and Biographical
                                Record of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana, 404-405. Arthur John Phinney "The Natural Gas Field
                            of Indiana," Eleventh Annual Report of the hector of the 
                                    United States
                                 Geological Survey (1890), Part I (
                                Washington
                            , 1893), 579-742. See also, Margaret Wynn, "Natural Gas in Indiana: An
                            Exploited Resource," Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History, IV
                            (March, 1908), 31-45.
               
                     and specimens. His geological library was one of the most
                    comprehensive in the state, and his collection of specimens ran to over seventeen thousand items and
                    consisted of exhibits of fossils, minerals, fresh water and land shells, all classified and labeled.
                    In 1892 this collection was sold and donated to Buchtel College, 
                        Akron
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    .86 In the early 1900's Dr. Phinney moved from 
                        Muncie
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he practiced medicine for a while; then apparently he went into business as a
                    confectioner. He died at the Masonic Home in 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, on May 26, 1942.87
            
            Though he lived until recently, Arthur John Phinney was a product of the nineteenth century. Since
                    1900 things have been different except for one straggler, Marcus Ward Lyon, Jr., but now he too is
                    gone. Lyon was born at 
                        Rock Island
                     Arsenal, 
                        Illinois
                    , February 5, 1875, the son of an army captain. After graduation from the 
                        Rock Island
                     High School in 1893, he went to 
                        Brown
                     University, receiving the Ph.B. degree in 1897. After teaching bacteriology at the 
                        North Carolina
                     Medical College, Davidson, he went to 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , as aide in the Division of Mammals at the 
                        United States
                     National Museum. While engaged in this work he attended George Washington University,
                    receiving his M.S. degree in 1900, the M.D. in 1902, and the Ph.D. in 1913. He was made assistant
                    curator at the National Museum in 1907 and retained this position till 1912. During his connection
                    with the National Museum he and an associate were sent to Venezuela in 1899 to collect mammals. Lyon
                    was appointed special agent for the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase Exposition in 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1904 and held a similar position the next year for the Lewis and Clark Exposition at
                            
                  Portland, Oregon
               . In 1911 he visited the museums of Europe. Lyon in his medical
                    activities never practiced as a clinician, but instead worked in the fundamental medical sciences.
                    At first, 
                  
                     86 Bowen and Co. (pub.), A Portrait and Biographical
                                Record of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana, 406.
                  
                     87 R. L. Polk L Co. (pub.), 
                        
                                    Indianapolis City
                                 Directory. Phinney appears in this directory first in the year 1906;
                            he is listed as a physician till 1911, then as a confectioner at the same address. He was
                            registered with the Indiana State Board of Medical Registration and Examination as an 
                                Indianapolis
                             physician from 1906 till 1916. See Annual Report of the Indiana
                                State Board of Medical Registration and Examination for the years 1906 through
                            1916. Edington, "Arthur John Phinney," Proceedings of the
                                Indiana Academy of Science (1942), 7.
               
                     after he received his medical degree, he taught physiology,
                    bacteriology, and pathology in the medical schools of 
                        Washington, D.C.
                     After the First World War he joined the staff of the 
                        South Bend
                     Clinic as pathologist, retaining this position until his death, May 19, 1942.88
            
            Will E. Edington, memorialist for the Indiana Academy of Science, in his recital of Lyon's
                    life writes: 
                        Dr. Lyon was an ardent naturalist and nothing pleased him more than to study nature first
                            hand. When permitted freedom from museum and laboratory duties he went into the field to
                            gather specimens or to study birds and animals in their natural habitat. He made extensive
                            zoological and botanical collections. His zoological collections are now in the U. S.
                            National Museum; and the U. S. National Herbarium, Smithsonian Institution, and the
                            University of 
                                Michigan
                             each possess extensive botanical collections that Dr. Lyon made. His principal
                            zoological interest was mammals, both living and prehistoric, and one of his deepest regrets
                            was that the State of Indiana possessed no suitable museum for housing the prehistoric finds
                            made in the State. He was an authority on mammalia and he was one of the Collaborators on
                                Nomenclator Animalium generum et subgenerum being published by the
                            Prussian Academy of Sciences in 
                                Berlin
                            . He was also author of a book Mammals of Indiana. But Dr.
                            Lyon was primarily a physician and among his 160 papers on biological and medical subjects
                            are many reports on unusual or interesting cases that passed through the clinic.89
                  
                    
                
            In spite of his medical writings, however, Dr. Marcus Lyon, Jr., is little known in Hoosier medical
                    circles. In this regard he joins company with the majority of his physician-naturalist
                    predecessors—with Owen, Plummer, Haymond, 
                        Brown
                    , Elrod, and Phinney. Such, it appears, is the fate of those inquiring souls who dare to
                    stray from the strict confines of medical endeavor and to abstain from engagement in public
                    professional affairs. Though Lyon belonged to the 
                  
                     88 "Marcus Ward Lyon, Jr., 1875-1942," Journal of the American Medical Association, CIXX (July 11, 1942), 899; and [Will
                            E. Edington], "Marcus Ward Lyon, Jr.," Proceedings of the
                                Indiana Academy of Science (1942), 6-7. Lyon taught first in the Medical School of
                            Howard University, where he remained until 1917. Then for one year he was on the staff of
                            George Washington University Medical School where he taught veterinary zoology and
                            parasitology. He served as pathologist at the Walter Reed General Hospital as a medical
                            officer in the U.S. Army just prior to his removal to 
                                South Bend
                            .
                  
                     89 [Edington], "Marcus Ward Lyon, Jr.," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (1942), 7.
               
                     state and national medical societies, his main participation was
                    in the activities of other organizations, particularly in those of the American Society of
                    Mammalogists and the Indiana Academy of Science. He rose to the presidency of the Society of
                    Mammalogists, was treasurer of the Indiana Academy of Science from 1927 to 1932, and served as its
                    president in 1933. His presidential address was on the "Origins of Indiana's
                        Mammals."90 Marcus Ward Lyon, Jr., will be remembered in Indiana as
                    a mammalogist. Living as he did at 
                        South Bend
                    , it was natural that he should publish his chief work "Mammals of
                    Indiana" in the Midland Naturalist, issued by Notre Dame University.91
            
            The height of activity by the Indiana physician in natural history and geology, however, had been
                    reached during the incumbency of John Collett as state geologist. Collett was succeeded in 1885 by
                    the writer Maurice Thompson, who served till 1888. The appointment was a political one, for Thompson
                    knew little about geology and natural science.92 True, he understood the art of
                    the historical novel, as is witnessed by the later success of his Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                and other books.93 But most assuredly he did not
                    comprehend the relationship of the theoretical and the practical, for in his second report, which he
                    made in 1888, Thompson wrote: 
                        Paleontology has its place of practical utility as a sign language by which the rocks impart
                            their secrets to us, and through which we may reach the significance of things otherwise
                            meaningless; but, upon the whole, the discovery of a ledge of good building stone is more to
                            be prized than a mine of crinoids or a hill full of trilobites, pentramites and the rest.
                            The discovery of the potato was of more value to mankind than all the works of Darwin,
                            Huxley, Tyndall and Agassiz combined. Nor is this belittling these great men. It simply
                            means that though one 
                        
                           90 Marcus Ward Lyon, Jr., "Origins of
                                    Indiana's Mammals," Proceedings of the Indiana
                                        Academy of Science (1933) (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1934), 27-43.
                        
                           91 Marcus Ward Lyon, Jr., "Mammals of
                                    Indiana," The American Midland Naturalist, XVII (January,
                                    1936), 1-384. This work was also issued in book form by the University of Notre Dame
                                    Press, Notre Dame, Ind., as Mammals of Indiana (1936).
                        
                           92 Blatchley, "A Century of Geology in
                                    Indiana," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science
                                    (1916), 154, 157.
                        
                           93 R. E. Banta (comp.), Indiana Authors and Their
                                        Books, 1816-1816 (
                                        Crawfordsville
                                    , Ind., 1949), 317-319.
                     
                             should make plain as day the origin of life it would be
                            as nothing compared with a discovery of cheaper food for the poor and shorter hours of labor
                            for the toilers.94
                  
                    
                
            What would the Indiana physicians of whom we have written have answered to these words?95 Doubtless they would have pointed out that practical results often depend in the end
                    upon theoretical studies. They would certainly have said that there is nothing more important than
                    understanding the processes and origins of life. Had they been interested solely in the immediately
                    serviceable, they would never have acted as they did nor have accomplished what they did.
            
               
                  94 Maurice Thompson, "Introductory," in Indiana, Department of Geology and Natural History, Sixteenth Annual Report …
                            1888 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1889), 12-13.
               
                  95 Part of the answer to this question was given by Rufus Haymond in his
                        talk to the youths of 
                            Brookville
                         over a century ago. A more telling reply directed to the so-called
                        "practical man," and one good for all time, was set down unforgettably by
                        another physician-scientist and writer of the mid-nineteenth century, namely Oliver Wendell
                        Holmes; see his Currents and Counter-Currents in Medical Science (
                            Boston
                        , 1861), 6-7.
            
         
         
         
         
            The Medical Inventory of a Pioneer Doctor
            Edited by Gerald O. Haffner∗ Contributed by William E. Wilson
            People of today may find it difficult to comprehend how men of an earlier day got along without
                    modern drugs and medical technology. Yet early settlers in southern Indiana and elsewhere managed to
                    get by with the medicinal materials at hand and, perhaps, counted themselves fortunate if they had a
                    "doctor shop" within a few miles and a "doc" whom they could
                    reach without an appointment.
            A century and a quarter ago, the pioneer town of Charles-town, Indiana, in 
                        Clark County
                    , had at least two doctors. One of them was Dr. Andrew Rodgers, and the other was Dr.
                    Andrew P. Hay. Dr. Rodgers, however, died in 1833; whereas Dr. Hay was still practicing medicine as
                    late as 1841.1 Upon Rodgers' death, Hay helped take an inventory
                    appraising the estate left by his colleague. It is this inventory which follows.
            Available records throw very little light upon biographical details concerning Dr. Andrew Rodgers2 Newspaper sources do, however, indicate that Dr. Andrew Rodgers and Dr. Andrew
                    P. Hay entered into a medical partnership. When the partnership began is unknown, but an item in the
                    local Farmers' and Mechanics' Advocate states that the two
                    doctors dissolved it by mutual consent as of November 4, 1827. What 
                  
                     ∗ Gerald O. Haffner is assistant professor of history at
                            Indiana University, Southeastern Center, 
                                Jeffersonville
                            .
                  
                     1
                            Republican Statesman (
                                Charlestown
                            , Ind.), March 21, 1829; The People's Gazette (
                                Charlestown
                            , Ind.), November 4, 1841.
                  
                     2 There were two Andrew Rodgerses from 
                                Bethlehem
                             Township, 
                                Clark County
                            , listed in the records of the U.S. census for Indiana in 1820, but only one was
                            listed in the census of 1830. The two may have been father and son. One 
                                Clark County
                             history contains a reference to an Andrew Rodgers, a doctor at 
                                Charlestown
                            , Indiana, and an early history of the "Fall Cities" and
                            adjoining counties briefly mentions Dr. Andrew Rodgers, "who died very
                            suddenly." The probate court records of 
                                Clark County
                             do no more than verify Rodgers' death and indicate that he left a
                            small personal estate. U.S., Bureau of the Census, Fourth Census of the 
                                United States
                            : 1820, I, 20; Fifth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                : 1830, I, 40. Photostat copies of these two census records are located
                            at the Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Lewis C. Baird, Baird's History of 
                                    Clark County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1909), 414-420; History of 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities and their Counties, with Illustrative and Biographical
                                Sketches (2 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , O., 1882), 350; 
                        Clark County,
                                    Charlestown
                     , Ind., Probate Records,
                            Order Book B (1828-1835); Republican Statesman (
                                Charlestown
                            , Ind.), March 21, 1829.
               
                     Dr. Rodgers did from November 4, 1827, to January 3, 1829,
                    remains a mystery.3 An illuminating bit of information pertaining to the time
                    after January 3, 1829, comes from the doctor himself. During the early months of 1829, there
                    appeared in the Republican Statesman the following announcement:4
                    
                        
                     Andrew Rodgers, RESPECTFULLY inform, his friends and the public, that he
                            has commenced the Practice of Medicine In its several departments. He
                            had opened a shop in Charlestown, in the white building lately occupied by James Morrison,
                            Esq. where he may be found either by night or day when not absent on professional duties.
                        He has and will constantly keep on hand, a general supply of Medicines, including the most
                            valuable FAMILY PATENT MEDICINES which will be retailed in quantities to suit purchasers, as
                            low as they can be bought at the stores or elsewhere, and warranted of the best quality.
                        
                     
                                Charlestown
                            , Jan. 3, 1829— 161f
                    
                
            
               
                  3 The partnership between Drs. Rodgers and Hay was probably brief. Earlier
                        Dr. Hay and Dr. John T. Purington had entered into a partnership on June 27, 1821, and dissolved
                        it on April 1, 1822. SO the partnership between Hay and Rodgers must have been somewhere between
                        1822 and 1827; it could not have been for more than five years at the most. Furthermore,
                        Rodgers' name was not included in a list of local physicians which was printed in 1823,
                        although it is conceivable that e was practicing medicine at 
                            Charlestown
                         even though his name did not get into print. The Indiana Intelligencer
                        
                            Charlestown
                        , Ind.), June 27, 1821; The Indiana Intelligencer and Farmers'
                            Friend (
                            Charlestown
                        , Ind.), April 10, 1822, June 18, 1823; Farmers' and
                            Mechanics' Advocate (
                            Charlestown
                        , Ind.), November 10, 1827.
               
                  4 The notice reproduced here appeared in the Republican
                            Statesman (
                            Charlestown
                        , Ind.), March 21, 1829, although it is dated January 3, 1829. Evidently, the
                        announcement was repeated for several weeks, and the January date indicated the first time it
                        appeared in print; however, the March issue is the only extant copy in the Indiana State
                        Library.
            
            
            According to the foregoing notice, Dr. Rodgers began practicing by himself in 
                        Charlestown
                     early in 1829; the inventory of his estate shows that he passed away in 1833.
                    Therefore, it is assumed that he privately practiced medicine at 
                        Charlestown
                     for a little over four years.
            There is no assurance that the drugs, surgical instruments, and medical books listed in the inventory
                    were typical of the average pioneer doctor's armamentarium. Nevertheless, the list of
                    Rodgers' possessions does cast some light upon the type of medical care available to those
                    pioneer people "from 
                        Bethlehem
                    , on the 
                        Ohio
                    , to 
                        New Providence
                     [Borden] in the knobs" in 
                        Clark County
                    .5 According to lists of drugs for sale in the 1830's and
                    authorities who have written extensively about pioneer medicine, Dr. Andrew Rodgers was using many
                    of the same drugs that were then being used by other members of the medical profession.6 In addition, judging from his library, Dr. Rodgers had a fairly good set of
                    medical books for reference, especially since he lived in a period when books on medicine were
                    scarce in the West and a "physician who could afford one work on each branch of the
                    profession was considered well off."7
            
            The editor is aware that there is today rather wide acquaintance with several of the common items
                    included in the inventory, such as quinine, arsenic, digitalis, ether, and olive oil; therefore,
                    these are not identified in the explanatory notes. In discussing less well-known drugs, the editor
                    has attempted to make some comparisons between their recent usage and that of pioneer times. And now
                    a few words of caution: a mere discussion of early drugs does not in any way constitute a
                    recommendation for their application today. It is well to remember that the pioneers had to bear the
                    brunt of much experimentation.
            The original document is in the manuscript collection of William E. Wilson, State Superintendent of
                    Public Instruction, 
                  
                     5
                            History of 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities, 350.
                  
                     6 See Republican and Banner (
                                Madison
                            , Ind.), August 29, December 26, 1833, December 4, 1834, and The
                                Indianian (
                                Charlestown
                            , Ind.), November 6, 1839, for advertisements of drugs and patent medicines
                            offered for sale. For excellent references concerning pioneer medicine, see M. E. Pickard
                            and R. C. Buley, The Midwest Pioneer: His 
                                    Ills
                                , Cures & Doctors (
                                New York
                            , 1946); J. E. Wright and D. S. Corbett, Pioneer Life in Western 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                      (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1940); R. C. Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                            1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1961), I.
                  
                     7 G. W. H. Kemper, A Medical History of the State of
                                Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1911), 44.
               
                     who granted permission to publish it here and furnished some of
                    the background information about it. The editor also would like to acknowledge the assistance of the
                    following persons: Miss Carolynne Wendel, Indiana State Library; Mrs. Ruth Atwood, Medical Library
                    of the University of 
                        Louisville
                    ; Mr. William H. Butts and Mr. Myron Davis, pharmacists, Corydon, Indiana; and Miss
                    Evelyn Dale, Filson Club, 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               .
            
                    (Page 1)
                    An Inventory and appraisment1 of the Personal Estate of Doct
                    Andrew Rodgers decesd
                    August 29th 1833
                
            
               
                   
                  $ctt
               
               
                  one gray Horse
                  35.00
               
               
                  one bridle Martingale2 & saddle and BlanKe[t]
                  10.00
               
               
                  one cow
                  10.00
               
            
            
               
                  1 Except for minor modifications dictated by common sense and enumerated
                        in this note, the inventory of Dr. Rodgers' possessions has been exactly reproduced.
                        Original spelling, capitalization, and punctuation have been carefully followed. The
                        considerable number of errors and inconsistencies in spelling throughout the inventory would
                        have called for overuse of "sic," therefore, that device has
                        been utilized only in a few special instances. The arabic numerals that divide the inventory
                        into sections mark each new page in the original document. In reproducing the inventory,
                        flourishes of the pen and indiscriminate dashes and dots have been omitted. Penciled notations
                        indicating which items in the inventory were subsequently sold have also been ignored. In order
                        to clarify all items mentioned in the inventory, the editor went first to contemporary sources
                        for an explanation; if these references did not shed any light upon the item—and this
                        was often the case—he then searched modern medical literature. In most instances,
                        some hint about the usage of a drug or compound was found; however, variations in suggested
                        dosage can distort one's impression about how and for what the drug was used. It was
                        necessary, therefore, to mention a general range of maladies for which a particular drug was
                        employed. With respect to medical books, the procedure was to trace briefly the European
                        editions and to comment on the more important American editions. The footnotes indicate that it
                        is virtually impossible to track down all editions and printings of some of these works.
                        Although the editor received much help, he assumes full responsibility for all errors.
               
                  2 A leather strap attached to the bit of the bridle, passed down between
                        the horse's forelegs then fastened to the girth, which was the band around the
                        animal's body securing the saddle. The martingale's purpose was to prevent the
                        horse from rearing.
            
            
            
               
                  one sow and four pigs
                  6.00
               
               
                  one Riding Whip $1. 1 Bridlre] [illegible]
                  1.50
               
               
                  one Silver Watch chain & Key
                  15.00
               
               
                  one pair Medical Saddle Bags 3.00
               
               
                  one Stove & pipe
                  7.00
               
               
                  three cord [fire?]wood
                  3.00
               
               
                  one Settee
                  5.00
               
               
                  one Sett chairs 6
                  6.00
               
               
                  one Sett chairs 6
                  6.00
               
               
                   
                  $106.50
               
            
            2
            
               
                  Amount over
                  $106.50
               
               
                  one folding Dining Table
                  8.00
               
               
                  one breakfast table & cover
                  4.00
               
               
                  one candle stand table
                  2.00
               
               
                  one Table stand 3 drawer
                  3.00
               
               
                  one Secratory
                  18.00
               
               
                  one Bureau
                  15.00
               
               
                  one Sugar chest
                  4.00
               
               
                  one childs chair
                  .50
               
               
                  three split bottom chairs
                  1.50
               
               
                  one trunk
                  2.00
               
               
                  one table in shop
                  .50
               
               
                  one Trundle bed stead
                  2.00
               
               
                  one High post bedstead feather bed straw bed 4 cotton quilts one sheet 2 pillows &
                            bolster cases 2 BlanKets
                  41.00
               
               
                   
                  $208.00
               
            
            
            3
            
               
                  Amount up
                  $208.00
               
               
                  one French bedstead two feather beds two pillows two cotton sheets one blanket 3 cotton
                            quilts one wool coverlid3 one Tow lin[en]4 Tick
                  32.00
               
               
                  one bedstead, feather bed straw bed—wollen coverlid cotton sheet 3 pillows one
                            bolster
                  20.00
               
               
                  one cotton quilt
                  1.00
               
               
                  one Do [blue?] quilt
                  2.60
               
               
                  one large cotton counterpane
                  4.00
               
               
                  one Do D
                  3.00
               
               
                  one BlanKe[t] bound
                  2.00
               
               
                  9 cotton sheets
                  8.00
               
               
                  9 cotton pillow cases
                  1.00
               
               
                   
                  $281.50
               
            
            4
            
               
                  Amount over
                  $281.50
               
               
                  one cutting Box
                  3.00
               
               
                  8 [lbs?] Rolls
                  3.60
               
               
                  one haelf bushel
                  .37
               
               
                  one spade
                  .75
               
               
                  6 bushels corn
                  1.87
               
               
                  1 gilt looking Glass
                  3.00
               
               
                  three brass candlesticks
                  1.00
               
            
            
               
                  3 Often spoken of as "kiverlid" or
                        "coverlid" by pioneers. A description of the construction of coverlets is
                        found in Buley, Old Northwest, I, 211-213. Logan Esarey in The
                            Indiana Home (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Ind., 1947), 17, refers to the coverlet as an essential item of property in
                            the average household.
               
                  4 For an explanation of the manufacture of tow linen, see Wright and
                        Corbett, Pioneer Life in Western 
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                  , 76, and Buley, Old Northwest, I, 204.
            
            
            
               
                  1 pr. And irons
                  .75
               
               
                  1 pr Shovel & tongs
                  .75
               
               
                  one large Kettle & bale
                  1.50
               
               
                  1 large oven & lid
                  1.00
               
               
                  1 small oven & lid
                  .75
               
               
                  3 sKillets & two lid
                  1.25
               
               
                  1 frying pan
                  .50
               
               
                  1 grid iron5
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  1 small pot iron
                  .50
               
               
                  1 copper tea Kettle
                  1.50
               
               
                  1 Brass Kettle
                  1.50
               
               
                  1 pr. waffle irons
                  .75
               
               
                   
                  $306.34
               
            
            5
            
               
                  Amount up
                  $306.34
               
               
                  one wooden bucke[t] .12 1/2
               
               
                  1 Tin bucket
                  .12 1/2
               
               
                  1 wood bucke[t]
                  .12 1/2
               
               
                  2 pot warmers
                  .50
               
               
                  1 churn & dasher
                  .62 1/2
               
               
                  1 coffee mill
                  .75
               
               
                  1 large tin pan & wooden tray
                  .50
               
               
                  1 flat iron & holder
                  .37 1/2
               
               
                  1 lot Earthen ware
                  .50
               
               
                  1 [illegible] sifter
                  .50
               
               
                  2 Baskets & Tub
                  .37 1/2
               
               
                  1 large Spinning wheel
                  2.00
               
               
                  1 Bee Hive
                  2.00
               
               
                  All articles of Cupboard ware for the Table
                  15.00
               
               
                  2 window screens
                  1.00
               
               
                  1 warter
                  .25
               
               
                  2 Razors. strap & box
                  1.50
               
               
                   
                  $332.56
               
            
            
               
                  5 A grated iron utensil used for broiling food.
            
            
            6
            
               
                  Amount over
                  $332.59
               
               
                  1 large meat tub
                  1.00
               
               
                  1 Small Do
                  
                  .75
               
               
                  1 pickle ca[n]
                  .25
               
               
                  1 large tin can
                  1.00
               
               
                  1 side of Bacon
                  1.25
               
               
                  1 lot oats in Sheaf
                  2.50
               
               
                  1 lot rye in Sheaf at Mr Welchs6
                  
                  3.75
               
               
                  Books
                  
               
               
                  1 Large Quarto Bible
                  4.00
               
               
                  1 Watts Hymn Book
                  .25
               
               
                  English Exercises
                  .25
               
               
                  1 vocal Musick book
                  .371/27
                  
               
               
                  1 Volum Dewees S. M. Wifery8
                  
                  3.00
               
               
                  1 Vol. Dewees on Females9
                  
                  3.00
               
               
                  Gregorys Practice Physic. 2 volms10
                  
                  4.50
               
               
                  Wistars Anatomy 2 volms11
                  
                  4.50
               
            
            
               
                  6 Most likely refers to rye stored by Mr. Welch, the administrator in
                        whose presence the inventory was made.
               
                  7 The half-cent is omitted in the total on p. 6 of the inventory.
               
                  8 william Potts Dewees, A Compendious System of
                        Midwifery (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1824). Dewees had much to say about midwifery, for the work filled 602 pages. He
                        also was co-editor of the 
                     
                                Philadelphia
                             Journal of Medical and Physical Sciences, 1825-1827. His book is listed in
                        the Index-Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon-General's Office, 
                                United States
                             Army (1st series, 16 vols., 
                            Washington, D.C.
                        , 1880-1898), III, 720. This work will be hereafter cited as Index-Catalog.
               
               
                  9 William Potts Dewees, Treatise on the Diseases of
                        Females (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1828). Index-Catalog, III, 720.
               
                  10 George Gregory, Treatise on the Theory and Practice of
                            Physic: With Notes and Additions, Adapted to the Practice of the 
                                United States
                            , by Nathaniel Potter and S. Colhoun (2 vols., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1826). A second edition appeared in 1829, and a third in 1831. It is uncertain
                        which edition Dr. Rodgers possessed. Gregory was an English physician whose writings appeared in 
                            England
                         and 
                            Scotland
                        . This printing of his book represents and illustrates a point of practice in the
                        days before copyrights. Very often an American printer would publish a book from western Europe
                        as soon as it reached the shores of this continent—with or without additional notes.
                            Index-Catalog, V, 600.
               
                  11 Caspar Wistar, A System of Anatomy for the Use of Students
                            of Medicine (2 vols., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1811-1814). A second edition was published in 1817, a third in 1823 and 1825 by
                        different publishers, and a fourth in 1827. Index-Catalog, XVI, 515.
            
            
            
               
                  Coxs Dispens[a]tory12
                  
                  2.50
               
               
                  1 vol Johnson on Tropical Climates13
                  
                  2.00
               
               
                   
                  $367.46
               
            
            7
            
               
                  Amount up
                  $367.46
               
               
                  Eberlees Materia Medica 2 volms14
                  
                  3.00
               
               
                  Ar[m]strong on Typhus fever 1 vol.15
                  
                  1.25
               
               
                  Coopers Surgery 1 vol16
                  
                  1.50
               
               
                  Hallers Physiology 1 vol.17
                  
                  1.50
               
            
            
               
                  12 John Redman Coxe, The American Dispensatory …
                            Comprehending the Improvements in Dr. Duncan's Second Edition of the 
                                Edinburgh
                             New Dispensatory (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1806). Other editions appeared in 1810, 1814, 1818, 1830, and 1831—any
                        of which may have been the one used by Dr. Rodgers. Coxe held the chair of materia medica and
                        pharmacy at the University of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        . Index-Catalog, III, 464.
               
                  13 James Johnson, The Influence of Tropical Climates on
                            European Constitutions: To Which Is Added, Tropical Hygiene; or, the Preservation of Health
                            in All Hot Climates, From the latest 
                                London
                             edition (2 vols., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1821). Three editions of Johnson's book had been published in 
                            London
                         by 1821. Johnson, an English writer who wrote about atmospheric conditions and
                        other medical topics, was also an editor of several British journals at one time or other. Index-Catalog, III, 252.
               
                  14 John Eberle, A Treatise on the Practice of Medicine
                        (2 vols., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1830). A second edition came out in 1831, a third in 1835. A Treatise
                            of the Materia Medica and Therapeutics, by John Eberle, was published in 1834 (after
                        Rodgers' death) and is listed as the fourth edition of the first work noted above; a
                        fifth edition appeared in 1841. The first title was probably the one owned by Dr. Rodgers, but
                        Dr. Hay very likely entered it in the inventory as Materia Medica.
                        Index-Catalog, IV, 41.
               
                  15 John Armstrong, Practical Illustrations of Typhus Fever,
                            of the Common Continued Fever, and of Inflammatory Diseases, etc. With Notes Critical and
                            Explanatory, by Nathaniel Potter (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1821). This first American edition of Armstrong's book was from the third
                        English edition. Two more editions were published (1822 and 1824) at 
                            Philadelphia
                        . This same book was also published at 
                            Boston
                         in 1829 under a slightly different title: Practical Illustrations of
                            Typhus and Other Fevers: of Pulmonary Consumption, Measles, etc. Index-Catalog, I,
                        529-530.
               
                  16 Samuel Cooper, A Dictionary of Practical Surgery (
                            London
                        , 1818). Cooper's work went through at least eight editions in 
                            London
                         and three editions in 
                            Philadelphia
                        . The various editions had different titles. The editor has cited the third 
                            London
                         edition because its title is most nearly like the one listed in Dr.
                        Rodgers' inventory. Index-Catalog, III, 404.
               
                  17 Albertus Haller, First Lines of Physiology (
                            Troy
                        , O., 1803). There were four Latin editions, one German, one English, and one
                        American edition of this work. The American edition was a translation from the third Latin
                        edition and was probably the one Dr. Rodgers owned. Index-Catalog, V,
                    795-797.
            
            
            
               
                  Cabanis Essay 1 vol18
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  Johnsons Essays 1 vol91
                  
                  .75
               
               
                  Hippocrates Progno[s]tics of crisis 1 vol20
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  Miner & Tully on Fevers 1 vol21
                  
                  2.50
               
               
                  Rush on the Mind 1 vol22
                  
                  1.00
               
               
                  Bell on the Venereal 1 vol23
                  
                  1.50
               
               
                  Browns Elements24
                  
                  .75
               
               
                  Hoopers Medical Dictionary
                     25
                  
                  3.00
               
               
                  Magendies Formula26
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  4 Nos. Westn Med. Journal28
                  
                  .60
               
               
                  6 No. West Med. Gazet[te]28
                  
                  .37 1/2
               
               
                  2 Nos American Medical Recorder29
                  
                  .50
               
            
            
               
                  18 Pierre Jean Georges Cabanis, An Essay on the Certainty of
                            Medicine (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1823). There were three 
                            Paris
                         editions of this book (1798, 1803, and 1819). The American edition was a
                        translation from the French by R. La Roche. Cabanis has often been called "the founder
                        of modern physiological psychology." Index-Catalog, II, 667; Webster's Biographical Dictionary (
                            Springfield
                        , Mass., 1948), 225.
               
                  19 This item in the inventory presents a problem. It may refer to the
                        writings of the celebrated man of English letters, Dr. Samuel Johnson; but since the work is
                        listed among books exclusively medical, it may refer to the writings of either Christopher
                        Turner Johnson or James Johnson. At best, one can merely make a conjecture. Christopher Turner
                        Johnson published in 
                            London
                         (1810) A Practical Essay on Cancer, Being the Substance of
                            Observations to Which the Annual Prize for 1808 Was Adjudged by the Royal College of
                            Surgeons of 
                                London
                            . This book was printed in 
                            Philadelphia
                         (1811) with the same title. James Johnson's An Essay on
                            Morbid Sensibility of the Stomach and Bowels as the Proximate Cause, or Characteristic
                            Condition, of Indigestion, Nervous Irritability, Mental Despondency, Hypochondriasis, etc.
                            To Which Are Added, Observations on the Diseases and Regimen of Invalids, on their Return
                            from Hot and Unhealthy Climates went through six English editions and three American
                        ones. The American editions appeared between 1827 and 1831, and a copy of one of them may very
                        well have found its way to the shelves of the "doctor's shop" in 
                            Charlestown
                        . Index-Catalog, VII, 251-252.
               
                  20 It is a long way, both in time and space, from the shores of 
                            Greece
                         and Hippocrates to the hills of southern Indiana and Dr. Andrew Rodgers. How much
                        influence the "Father of Medicine" had upon the Ohio
                        Valley in the eighteenth century no one will ever know. Perhaps the item listed above
                        was a reprint of one of Hippocrates' eighty-seven treatises which collectively are
                        known as the "Hippocratic Collection." Webster's
                            Biographical Dictionary, 713. Or perhaps the Prognostics of Crisis was
                            from the pen of a local "Hippocrates." Buley, Old
                            Northwest, I, 279-280, mentions a series of articles published under the name of
                        "Hippocrates" in the Liberty Hall at 
                            Cincinnati
                         during 1821.
               
                  21 Thomas Miner and William Tully, Essays on Fevers and Other
                            Medical Subjects (
                            Middletown
                        , Conn., 1823). William Tully was a fairly well-known American physician and
                        professor at Yale. Apparently there was just one edition of this book. Index-Catalog, IX, 330; Webster's Biographical Dictionary,
                        1492.
            
            
            
               
                  22 Benjamin Rush, Medical Inquiries and Observations upon the
                            Diseases of the Mind (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1812). Through this book, some of the writings of the noted physician and
                        political leader of 
                            Philadelphia
                         had found their way to 
                            Charlestown
                        , Ind. Webster's Biographical Dictionary, 1292.
               
                  23 Benjamin Bell, Treatise on Gonorrhoea Virulenta and Lues
                            Venerea (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1795). This two-volume work had been published during 1793 in 
                            Dublin
                        . It was also published in 
                            Edinburgh
                        , and a one-volume edition with "notes adapted to the present state of
                        practice in those diseases" was printed in 1814 at 
                            Albany
                        , 
                            N.Y.
                         There is also a slight possibility that this item in the inventory was a copy of
                            A Treatise on the Diseases of the Urethra, Vesica Urinaria, Prostate, and
                            Rectum, by Sir Charles Bell, which was published in 1820 at 
                            London
                        . Index-Catalog, I, 850-852.
               
                  24 John Brown [or Bruno], Elementa Medicinae (
                            Edinburgh
                        , 1780). The first American edition was published at 
                            Philadelphia
                         in 1790 with the title: The Elements of Medicine; or a Translation of
                            the Elementa Medicinae Brunonis. With Large Notes, Illustrations, and Comments by the Author
                            of the Original Work. This book was also published elsewhere in the 
                            United States
                        . The last American edition was printed at 
                            Portsmouth
                        , N.H., in 1804. Index-Catalog, 11, 491.
               
                  25 Robert Hooper, A Compendious Medical Dictionary (
                            Boston
                        , 1801). This Medical Dictionary by an English author enjoyed wide
                        popularity in America. It was published at several places in this country and went through many
                        editions. It seems, however, that J. and J. Harper (later Harper & Bros.) of 
                            New York
                         turned out most of the American editions. The last one listed was the sixteenth
                        American edition, and of course it was based upon the very latest 
                            London
                         edition. Index-Catalog, VI, 341.
               
                  26 François Magendie, Formulary for the
                            Preparation and Mode of Employing Several New Remedies, Namely, Morphine, Iodine [etc.],
                            with an Introduction and Copious Notes, by the Late Charles Thomas Haden, Esg. (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1824). This edition was translated from the French by Robley Dunglison. Two
                        editions had appeared in 
                            Paris
                         during 1819 and 1822; other editions were published in 
                     New York, London
                  , Leipzig, and Amsterdam. Magendie was a French physiologist who
                        has been credited with the introduction of compounds of bromine and iodine, morphine, and
                        strychnine into medical practice. Index-Catalog, VIII, 508; Webster's Biographical Dictionary, 953.
               
                  27
                        The Western Medical and Physical Journal. This monthly publication was owned
                        by the medical faculty of 
                            Cincinnati
                         College and was published in the late 1820's at 
                            Cincinnati
                        . Its title was soon changed to Western Journal of the Medical and
                            Physical Sciences. It was edited by Dr. Daniel Drake and others. Index-Catalog, XVI, 399; Buley, Old Northwest, I, 280.
               
                  28
                        The Western Medical Gazette. This was a semimonthly journal published at 
                            Cincinnati
                         during the early 1830's. It was printed under the auspices of 
                            Ohio
                         Medical College, and the editorial staff was headed by Dr. John Eberle. Index-Catalog, XVI, 399; Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer, 158; Ralph Leslie
                        Rusk, The Literature of the Middle Western Frontier (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1926), I, 197. (The appraiser merely added the 37c and dropped the 1/2c of the 37
                        1/2c valuation of these six journals.)
               
                  29
                        The American Medical Recorder (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1818-1829). This journal was first a quarterly, then an annual. It was
                        "conducted by several respectable physicians of 
                            Philadelphia
                         and in 1829 was merged with the American Journal of the Medical
                            Sciences. Index-Catalog, I, 226.
            
            
            
               
                  2 Nos. American Journal Med. Sciences30
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  1 No. Baileys Morbid Anatomys31
                  
                  .50
               
               
                   
                  $387.83
               
            
            8
            
               
                  Amount over
                  $387.83
               
               
                  Surgeon Dentists Manual32
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  Home Physician33
                  
                  2.00
               
               
                  Virgil Delphini34
                  
                  1.50
               
               
                  Latin Grammer
                  .12 1/235
                  
               
               
                  Greek Grammar
                  .25
               
               
                  Natural Philosoph[y]
                  .50
               
               
                  English reader
                  .37
               
               
                  Blairs Lectures36
                  
                  .31
               
            
            
               
                  30 The American Journal of the Medical Sciences (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1827-1879). This journal was edited by Dr. Isaac Hays, and it was at first a
                        quarterly and then an annual publication. The first series (vols. 1-26) ran through the years
                        1827 to 1840; a new series (vols. 1-78) was published between 1841 and 1879.
               
                  31 Matthew Baillie, The Morbid Anatomy of Some of the Most
                            Important Parts of the Human Body (
                            London
                        , 1793). This work went through five 
                            London
                         editions. There were three American editions: 
                            Albany
                         (1795), Walpole, N.H. (1808), and 
                            Philadelphia
                         (1820). Index-Catalog, I, 736.
               
                  32 G. Waite, The Surgeon-Dentist's Anatomical and
                            Physiological Manual (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1830). Index-Catalog, III, 684.
               
                  33 The Home Physician may be one of the following books: Dr. William
                        Buchan, Domestic Medicine; or the Family Physician: Being an Attempt to Render the
                            Medical Art More Generally Useful with Respect to the Prevention and Cure of Diseases
                        (first published in 1769 at 
                            Edinburgh
                        , with subsequent editions published in the British Isles and in this country); Dr.
                        Anthony A. Benezet, The Family Physician; Comprising Rules for the Prevention and
                            Cure of Diseases; Calculated Particularly for the Inhabitants of the Western Country, and
                            for Those Who Navigate its Waters (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1826); or A. Weyer, The Family Physician or Pool Man's Friend, and
                        Married Lady's Companion: Containing a great variety of Valuable Medical Recipes,
                        designed to assist heads of Families, Travellers, and Sea-faring People in Curing Disease (St.
                        Clairsville, O., 1831). See Buley, Old Northwest, I, 269-270. It is also
                        possible that the volume inventoried might have been one of the anonymous home medical books
                        sold at the time. Index-Catalog (2nd series, 21 vols., 
                            Washington, D.C.
                        , 1896-1916), VII, 232.
               
                  34 The writings of this Roman poet must have been a good seller at this
                        time. See Republican and Banner (
                            Madison
                        , Ind.), August 22, 1833.
               
                  35 The half-cent does not appear in the total for the page.
               
                  36 Hugh Blair, Lectures on Rhetoric (n.p., 1783). Blair
                        was a Scottish Presbyterian clergyman and professor of rhetoric and belles-
            
            
            
               
                  Woodbridge [illegible] Geography37
                  
                  .20
               
               
                  Beckus discourses38
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  Life of Jackson39
                  
                  1.00
               
               
                  1 pr. Tooth Drawers. 3 hooks
                  2.50
               
               
                  1 pr. curved Tooth forceps
                  1.00
               
               
                  1 pr. Strait Tooth forceps
                  1.00
               
               
                  1 Gum Elastic Catheter
                  .75
               
               
                  1 Case Pocket Instruments
                  10.00
               
               
                   
                  $410.13 40
               
            
            9
            
               
                  Amount up
                  $410.13
               
               
                  1 optic Magnyfing Glass
                  .50
               
               
                  1 large pr. scales & weights
                  3.00
               
               
                  1 small pr Do Do
                  
                  1.50
               
               
                  1 Box small scales & weights
                  1.00
               
               
                  1 large Mortar & pestal
                  .50
               
               
                  1 Smaller D. & pestal
                  2.00
               
               
                  1 Turpentine Canister & Cock
                  .50
               
               
                  1 skillet
                  .25
               
               
                  1 Pill plate & small Do
                  
                  1.00
               
               
                  1 Pill machine
                  .50
               
               
                  4 Stone Jugs
                  .50
               
            
            
               lettres at 
                            Edinburgh
                         University. It is possible that his Lectures on Rhetoric were
                        first published at 
                            Edinburgh
                        . This book was reprinted extensively. The Dictionary of National
                            Biography (Reprint, 22 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1949-1960), II, 622-623; Webster's Biographical
                        Dictionary, 156.
               
                  37 This book was by William Channing Woodbridge, a 
                            New England
                         teacher and author of textbooks on geography. He was, in addition, the editor of an
                        educational magazine which was very influential in the 1830's. Paul Monroe, Founding of the American Public School System: A History of Education in the 
                                United States
                             From the Early Settlements to the Close of the Civil War Period (
                            New York
                        , 1940), 236.
               
                  38 No clue to the identify of this item has been found.
               
                  39 Here is another mysterious title. There was an early biography which
                        primarily discussed Jackson's military exploits; however, it was published in the
                        1840's. James Parton published three volumes entitled The Life of Andrew
                            Jackson (
                            New York
                        , 1859-1860, but this work, too, appeared several years after the death of Dr.
                        Rodgers.
               
                  40 There is an error in the total of this page of the inventory. The total
                        is approximately 136 too much if one disregards the half-cent.
            
            
            
               
                  1 Soddering iron
                  .19
               
               
                  1 Counter Brush
                  .12 1/2
               
               
                  82 Tin pill Boxes
                  .81
               
               
                  2 Spatulas
                  .50
               
               
                  1 Small Clyster pipe41
                  
                  .37 1/2
               
               
                  1 Small 1 female Do
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  1 steam Tube
                  .75
               
               
                   
                  $424.38
               
            
            10
            
               
                  Amount over
                  $424.38
               
               
                  one Gross vials
                  3.00
               
               
                  one & a half ounce ol. Cinnamon & vial42
                  
                  0.50
               
               
                  1/2 ounce ol. Mentl & vial43
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  1 ounce Anise & vial44
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  5 ounces Crude Mercury vial
                  .62 1/2
               
            
            
               
                  41 A clyster pipe was used in giving an enema. Clarence Wilbur Taber, Taber's Cyclopedic Medical Dictionary; Including A Digest of Medical
                        Subjects: Medicine, Surgery, Nursing, Dietetics, Physical Therapy (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1943), p. C-72.
               
                  42 The appraiser means oil of cinnamon. The abbreviation may refer to oil,
                        but it more than likely stands for the Latin equivalent of oil, oleum. The
                        drugs listed in this inventory often appear according to their English names, their Latin terms,
                        or a mixture of the two, as is the case in this instance. The complete Latin name would have
                        been oleum cinnnmoni. Although oil of cinnamon has germicidal action, it was
                        and is used primarily as a carminative or an aromatic. Robert A. Hatcher (ed.), Useful Drugs: A Selected List of Essential Drugs with Brief Discussions
                            of Actions, Uses and Dosage (
                            Chicago
                        , 1942), 92; Horatio C. Wood, Jr., and Arthur Osol, The Dispensatory of
                            the 
                                United States
                             of America (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1943), 754-756.
               
                  43 Mint oil (oleum menthae), but there is no indication
                        of the species of mint it was made from. According to the Pharmacopoeia which
                        was used during Dr. Rodgers' time, it was probably oil of peppermint or oil of
                        spearmint. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 677-679; The Pharmacopoeia of the 
                                United States
                             of America (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1831), 156-157.
               
                  44 Either anise oil or anise water. Used in liqueurs. Has carminative and
                        aromatic action. The Pharmacopoeia of the 
                                United States
                             of America (Easton, Pa., 1947), 43-44; Pharmacopoeia
                        (1831), 154-155; John C. Gunn, Gunn's New Domestic Physician: or Home Book
                            of Health. A Guide for Families; Pointing Out In Familiar Language, Free from Medical Terms,
                            the Latest Approved Methods of Treating the Diseases of Men, Women, and Children, and for
                            Using the Best New Remedies, Including Medical Plants (
                            Louisville
                        , Ky., 1857), 777. This work will be designated as Gunn, New Domestic Physician in
                        following citations.
            
            
            
               
                  Lunar Caustic & vial45
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  1 vial Essen [ammoniac?]46
                  
                  .121 1/2
               
               
                  1 vial ol. Tansy47
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  2 lbs lump Magnesia
                  .50
               
               
                  1 lb fol. Senna48
                  
                  .44
               
               
                  1/4 lb Cortex Aurantii49
                  
                  .06
               
               
                  3 1 1/2 Skunk Cabbage50
                  
                  .12 1/2
               
               
                  1 1/2 ii Composition Mxt51
                  
                  .37 1/2
               
               
                  3 lbs Sulph. Copper52
                  
                  .37 1/2
               
               
                  3/4 lb Rhubarb root53
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  3/4 lb Radx Gentian54
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  3/4 lb Pix Burgundy55
                  
                  .25
               
               
                   
                  $433.00
               
            
            
               
                  45 Lunar caustic is toughened silver nitrate and generally comes in the
                        form of a pencil or cone. It is used for its germicidal action and as an agent for
                        cauterization. Hatcher, Useful Drugs, 206-207; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 160-161.
               
                  46 Essence of ammoniac. The Pharmacopoeia of 1831 lists
                        this drug as elixir ammoniac. Evidently the item listed in the inventory was in the form of an
                        alcoholic solution of volatile oil or essence. Ammoniac has been used since ancient times, but
                        it is now very rarely administered. It was used largely to combat chronic bronchitis, but was
                        occasionally employed as a diaphoretic (to induce perspiration) or as an emmenagogue (to
                        stimulate menstrual activity). Pharmacopoeia (1831), 4; Pharmacopoeia (1947), 1256.
               
                  47 Oil of tansy. "Tansy adds to the medicinal properties of the
                        aromatic bitters those of an irritant narcotic." Its tonic properties were used for
                        their soothing effect in cases where there was emotional excitement. Pharmacopoeia (1947), 1552.
               
                  48
                        Folia senna or senna leaves, which was and is used to treat chronic
                        constipation. Today the syrup of senna is so pleasant tasting that even children readily accept
                        it. Hatcher, Useful Drugs, 205.
               
                  49
                        
                            Orange
                         peel. Used chiefly as a flavoring agent. Pharmacopoeia (1831), 6;
                            Pharmacopoeia (1947), 182-184.
               
                  50 The dried root of fresh skunk cabbage was given internally to stimulate
                        body secretions. Was used in treating rheumatism, asthma, and whooping cough. Pharmacopoeia (1947), 1269; Gunn, New Domestic Physician, 779. The
                        symbol "3" used in this and a number of other listings stands for
                        "ounce." Thus "3 7" is read "ounces, 7."
                        In some instances, small roman numerals are used with the symbol for ounce. Therefore,
                        "3 ii" is read "2 ounces."
               
                  51 Composition mixture—probably a composition of several acids.
               
                  52 Copper sulfate (blue vitriol). Employed as a stimulant, an astringent,
                        and as a powerful emetic. Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. c-100.
               
                  53 Rhubarb was used as an acid stimulant and as a cathartic. Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. R-30.
               
                  54 Radix (root) gentian. Made into a tincture and used as a bitter tonic.
                        Pharmacopoeia (1831), 12; Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. G18.
               
                  55 Burgundy pitch. Sometimes written as "Bergundy."
                        Derived from the Norway spruce tree and named after the French province of
            
            
            11
            
               
                  Amt up
                  $433.00
               
               
                  3/4 lb and 1 pt Jar Creme Tart56
                  
                  .45
               
               
                  1/2 [lb.?]Pulv[erized] Rheubarb & Jar
                  .70
               
               
                  1/2 Pulv Red Pepper & Jar
                  .45
               
               
                  10 3 Gum Myrrh & Pt Jar57
                  
                  .62
               
               
                  3/4 lb Gum Arabic & 1 pt Jar58
                  
                  .65
               
               
                  3 7 Castile soap & Jar
                  .32
               
               
                  3 14 Peruv. Barks & Jar59
                  
                  .75
               
               
                  3 8 Pulv Colombo & Jar60
                  
                  .70
               
               
                  3 ii Jalap & Jar61
                  
                  .32
               
            
            
               Burgundy. Used as a gentle skin irritant. Formerly employed in cases which called for
                        long-continued, but mild, counter-irritation such as for chronic conditions of the abdomen and
                        chest and rheumatic pains. Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. P-73; Pharmacopoeia (1831), 19; Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer, 305;
                            Pharmacopoeia (1947), 1292-1293.
               
                  56 Cream of tartar (potassium bitartrate). Action and uses: a mild
                        purgative and increases the secretion of urine. Hatcher, Useful Drugs, 189.
               
                  57 Myrrh in the form of gum and mixed with aloe to make pills is still
                        used today as a carminative, an agent to expel gases from the gastrointestinal tract. In the
                        tincture it is employed as an astringent mouthwash and gargle. Hatcher, Useful
                            Drugs, 165.
               
                  58 Gum arabic (acacia). In the mucilage form gum arabic is used as a
                        suspending agent in making emulsions and other mixtures. It also has value as an agent to soften
                        skin and mucous membrane. Hatcher, Useful Drugs, 9.
               
                  59 Peruvian bark (cinchona bark). Is the source of quinine, an
                        anti-malarial agent. The Indian word "quina," which means
                        "bark," is the basis for our word quinine. Some authorities state that the
                        Indian medicine men of Peru first used this bark in the treatment of malaria. Others say that
                        Jesuit priests were the original prescribers of this bark—hence giving it another
                        name by which it was known, "Jesuit bark." Authentic records show that it has
                        been used since 1630—two hundred years before the time of Dr. Andrew Rodgers. Pioneer
                        doctors, in addition to using it against malaria and other fevers, may have made a tincture out
                        of it and used it "as a bitter stimulant to gastric digestion and appetite."
                        Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 309-317.
               
                  60 Columbo (calumba) roots are pulverized into a powder which is slightly
                        aromatic and very bitter. Can be made into fluidextracts and tinctures. Acts as a tonic upon the
                        digestive organs. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 242-243.
               
                  61 Jalap root dried and made into a powder was a favorite drug among
                        pioneer doctors but not among their patients. The 
                            Jalapa
                         plant is a "native of Mexico" and derives "its name from
                        the city of 
                            Jalapa
                        , in the state of 
                            Vera Cruz
                        ." This drug "is a powerful, drastic, cathartic, in full dose
                        operating briskly and sometimes painfully with copious, watery stools." It is little
                        wonder that jalap "seems at times to have been even more feared than calomel."
                        Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. J-1; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 580-582;
                        Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer, 296.
            
            
            
               
                  1 lb Flos Sulph & Jar62
                  
                  .40
               
               
                  3 ii Red Precipitate & Jar63
                  
                  .40
               
               
                  3 1 G[um] Camph[or] & Jar
                  .30
               
               
                  1/2 lb Gum Foetida & Jarr64
                  
                  .40
               
               
                  1/2 lb Gum Guiac & Jar65
                  
                  .40
               
               
                  3 10 Creta preparata & Jar66
                  
                  .40
               
               
                  1/4 lb Nux vomica & Jar67
                  
                  .33
               
               
                  1 lb Sal Nitre & Jar68
                  
                  .40
               
               
                  1/2 lb Borax [refined?] Jar69
                  
                  .33
               
               
                   
                  $441.32
               
            
            
               
                  62 Flowers of sulfur (sublimed sulfur). This is a "fine, yellow,
                        crystalline powder" which has been used in various forms. Formerly it was considered
                        good for rheumatic conditions but probably had very few therapeutic benefits. It can be used as
                        a gentle laxative, especially in cases of hemorrhoids where griping is to be avoided. In
                        ointment form it has enjoyed success in the treatment of diseases of the skin, both the
                        parasitic and nonparasitic varieties. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1060-1062.
               
                  63 This is red mercuric oxide (listed as red oxide of mercury in the 1831
                            Pharmacopoeia). Used in ointments for body sores, e.g., the lesions of the
                        secondary stage of syphilis. Pharmacopoeia (1831), 125; Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. M-30.
               
                  64 Gum asafetida was an old stand-by with pioneer doctors. In fact, it was
                        used by the Arabian physicians of old and by the medical men of medieval Europe. Pioneers knew
                        it by its offensive and repulsive odor. Yet today a small amount used as a condiment gives
                        distinctive aroma to Worcestershire sauce. Asafetida was formerly used for nervous exhaustion
                        and hysteria, but the effect was more psychological than therapeutic. It has been added to
                        laxative drugs, used as a carminative for colic, and employed as an expectorant. Its
                        disagreeable taste makes asafetida in the pill form a little easier to take than in other forms,
                        but even then it is a hard pill to swallow. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory,
                        173-176.
               
                  65 Gum guaiac (guaiac resin) was formerly used in the treatment of all
                        types of chronic disorders, was considered useful as a nauseant, and was thought helpful for
                        skin diseases. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 507-608.
               
                  66 In its native form prepared chalk (creta praeparata)
                        is calcium carbonate. It is "used in acidity of stomach" and is
                        "admirably adapted to diarrhea accompanied with acidity." It has been applied
                        externally to ulcers and burns and has been efficient as a dusting powder when drying of the
                        skin was considered necessary. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 354-355.
               
                  67 The preparations of nux vomica, which contain a small
                        amount of strychnine, have been used occasionally as a nerve and respiratory stimulant and as an
                        appetizer, but more often they have been utilized as a tonic for the stomach. Hatcher, Useful Drugs, 172.
               
                  68
                        Sal nitri (sometimes spelled "nitre") is
                        potassium nitrate—more commonly called saltpetre. Used to increase the flow and
                        quantity of urine and also added to various mixtures of asthmatic powders. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 896-898.
               
                  69 Borax (sodium borate) possesses some antiseptic properties. Used widely
                        for cleansing and treatment in inflammatory conditions of the skin and mucous membranes. Wood
                        and Osol, Dispensatory, 986-988.
            
            
            12
            
               
                  Amt over
                  $441.32
               
               
                  1/2 lb Sugar Lead & Jar
                  .40
               
               
                  3 ii Sulp Potasa & Jar70
                  
                  .40
               
               
                  3 i Gum Kino & Jar71
                  
                  .30
               
               
                  3 iv flos Chamomile & Jar72
                  
                  .45
               
               
                  3/4 lb Chloride of lime & Jar
                  .25
               
               
                  3 14 arsenic & Jar
                  .56
               
               
                  3/4 lb Gum Amoniac & Jar
                  .95
               
               
                  [1/4?] lb Ginger & Jar
                  .25
               
               
                  3 ii Gum Tragacanth Jar73
                  
                  .38
               
               
                  3/4 lb Gum camphor & Jar
                  1.14
               
               
                  1/4, lb Sal Rochell & Jar74
                  
                  .31
               
               
                  1/4 lb Supr Car. Soda & Jar75
                  
                  .46
               
            
            
               
                  70 Sulfurated potash (potassa sulphurata) was in the
                        early days used internally for asthma, chronic rheumatism, and other maladies. Mixed in an
                        ointment or lotion and applied externally, it still has value in the treatment of various
                        diseases of the skin. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 882-883.
               
                  71 Kino, often added to chalk preparations, has been used to allay
                        diarrhea. Made into a tincture, it has been applied locally to bring about a shrinkage of
                        tissue. "Kino is powerfully astringent." Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 585-587.
               
                  72 Chamomile flowers (earth apple) when dried yield a volatile oil which
                        is an aromatic bitter. In large doses oil of chamomile acts as an emetic; in small doses, a
                        stomachic. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1263-1264.
               
                  73 Frorn the days of antiquity gum tragacanth has been used by the medical
                        profession. It has been employed in the making of emulsions and as a basis for troches
                        (lozenges). In addition it has been utilized as "a basis for a greaseless catheter
                        lubricant and as an application for chapped skin." Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1173-1175; Hatcher, Useful Drugs, 235.
               
                  74 Rochelle salt (potassium and sodium tartrate; the Phamcoposia of 1831
                        calls it tartrate of potassa and soda) is "used as a saline cathartic."
                        Phwmucopoeia (1831), 183; Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. R-33; Hatcher, Useful Drugs, 193.
               
                  75 Sulphur carbonate of soda was a dry mixture or powder of carbonate of
                        soda, which is a combination seldom listed today. The Pharmacopoeia of 1831
                        gave instructions for making the liquid "sulphuret of soda" for which one
                        ounce of sulphur and two ounces of dried carbonate of soda were mixed. The Pharmacopoeia gave no hint as to usage, but the mixture was probably used to
                        counteract excessive acidity and at the same time provide mild purgative action. Externally it
                        may have been employed to bathe the skin and as a parasiticide. Pharmacopoeia
                        (1831), 185-187; Taber, Medical Dictionary, pp. S-62, S-119; Wood and 0801,
                            Dispensatory, 990-991.
            
            
            
               
                  3 6 Tart acid & Jar76
                  
                  .57
               
               
                  3 10 Peach Kernels & Jar77
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  3 ii Santalum Runbrum & Jar78
                  
                  .32
               
               
                  1 iv Radx Valerian & Jar79
                  
                  .32
               
               
                  1 lb White Mustard & Jar
                  .40
               
               
                  3 4 Extct Catechu Jar80
                  
                  .45
               
               
                   
                  $449.72
               
            
            13
            
               
                  Amt up
                  $449.72
               
               
                  3 6 Pylygala Seneca & Jar81
                  
                  .60
               
               
                  3 4 Carb Iron Jar82
                  
                  .25
               
            
            
               
                  76 Tartaric acid increases the acidity of the body and has a laxative
                        effect. Today it is sometimes "used in artificial lemonades or in effervescent
                        drinks." Pharmacopoeia (1831), 4; Taber, Medical
                            Dictionary, p. T-6; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 54-55.
               
                  77 An oil is obtained from peach kernels and is known as "peach
                        kernel oil" or "persic oil." This oil has been used as a
                        "substitute for expressed oil of almonds" (oil of sweet almond. Peach kernel
                        oil has proven its efficacy as an emollient for inflamed skin conditions and in particular for
                        chapped hands. It mixes well with the volatile oils. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 740-741, 776.
               
                  78
                        Santalum rubrum is sometimes called "red saunders" and
                        "red sandalwood." For pharmaceutical use red saunders usually is in the form
                        of coarse powder, small chips, or raspings. This wood is used solely for coloring tinctures and
                        other preparations and has no medicinal value. Pharmacopoeia (1831), 22; Wood
                        and Osol, Dispensary, 950-961.
               
                  79 Valerian roots (radix) produce a volatile oil which has been made into
                        tinctures and fluidextracts. The roots seem to lose much of their medicinal value in the process
                        of drying; hence, preparations made from valerian roots are seldom used today. Formerly these
                        preparations were considered valuable for patients who had trouble some emotional conditions.
                        Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1212-1214.
               
                  80 Pale catechu is known perhaps more frequently by the term
                        "gambir." Gambir is used commercially in dyeing, calico printing, tanning, and
                        other industrial processes where there is need for tannic acid. Medically it has been utilized
                        in instances calling for an astringent, and especially for diarrheal conditions. Wood and Osol,
                            Dispensatory, 480-481.
               
                  81
                        Polygala senega (Seneca, snakeroot) has therapeutic virtues in the treatment
                        of various forms of asthma and bronchitis. In treating these conditions senega is used as an
                        expectorant. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 966-968.
               
                  82 Carbonate iron is today more properly called "ferrous
                        carbonate." Some form of sugar is usually added, and the mixture termed saccharated
                        ferrous carbonate." Ferrous carbonate has been considered very good for the
                        "treatment of anemia." Wood and Osol, Dispensatory,
                    446-446.
            
            
            
               
                  3 ii Sabina & Jar83
                  
                  .40
               
               
                  3 ii pulv Dovers & Jar84
                  
                  .26
               
               
                  3 6 Tart Emetic & Jar85
                  
                  .70
               
               
                  1/2 lb Calomel Jar86
                  
                  .70
               
               
                  3 i ss pulv Ipecac Jar87
                  
                  .60
               
               
                  3 i Corosive Sublimate Jar88
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  3 i Cochineal Jar89
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  3 1 ss oxyd Bismuth Jar90
                  
                  .38
               
               
                  3 ii Sulfate of Antimony
                  .26
               
               
                  3 ss Indigo
                  .10
               
               
                  3 i ss Digitalis
                  .25
               
               
                  20 grs Quinin
                  .12 1/2
               
               
                  3 ii Crude Antimony
                  .12 1/2
               
               
                  3 iii Gamboge91
                  
                  .25
               
            
            
               
                  83 Sabina (savin) is derived from the leaves and branches of an evergreen
                        tree. The fluidextract and oil are strong irritants and in overdoses are toxic. When savin is
                        "persistently applied to the skin or the mucous membrane, [there is produced a] violent
                        inflammation." Formerly it was employed as an antirheumatic, a vermifuge, and an
                        emmenagogue. See n. 110. Wood and 01301, Dispensatory, 1505.
               
                  84
                        
                            Dover
                        's powder (powder of ipecac and opium) was extensively used to counteract
                        the early stages of colds and influenza by increasing perspiration and by acting as a sedative.
                        Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 907.
               
                  85 Tartar emetic (antimony and potassium tartrate) has been used in
                        medicine "as a diaphoretic, emetic, expectorant, and counterirritant." Taber,
                            Medical Dictionary, p. T-5; Hatcher, Useful Drugs,
                        19-20.
               
                  86 Calomel (mild mercurous chloride) was another favorite of pioneer
                        doctors. It was used primarily as a laxative in small and not so small doses. Hatcher, Useful Drugs, 158-159.
               
                  87 Pulverized ipecac is "in large doses emetic, in smaller doses,
                        diaphoretic and expectorant, and in still smaller, stimulant to the stomach, exciting appetite
                        and facilitating digestion." Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 572-576.
                        The letters "ss." used in this and some of the following listings are the
                        Latin abbreviation for "half."
               
                  88 Corrosive sublimate (mercury bichloride, corrosive mercuric chloride,
                        corrosive chloride of mercury) is a powerful poison. Used as a disinfectant and germicide.
                        Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. M-31; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 618-521.
               
                  89 Cochineal possesses a rich crimson coloring and is used as a dye.
                        Medically, cochineal is an antispasmodic and relieves mild pain. Has been used for nervousness
                        and whooping cough. Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. C-75.
               
                  90 Bismuth oxide is rarely used today. It was employed against various
                        inflammations of the mucous membranes and skin. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory,
                        212-214, 1283-1284.
               
                  91 Gamboge in the full dose is a powerful and drastic cathartic and is not
                        used very much today. Formerly, because of the drug's potency, it was frequently mixed
                        with other cathartics. Also in earlier days gamboge was used to expel intestinal worms. Wood and
                        Osol, Dispensatory, 246-248.
            
            
            
               
                  3 i pulv. Liquorice
                  .6
               
               
                  1/4 lb Peach Kernel
                  .25
               
               
                   
                  $455.41
               
            
            14
            
               
                  Amt over
                  $455.41
               
               
                  3 i Sulp Zinc92
                  
                  .12
               
               
                  1 tin box Cowage93
                  
                  .12
               
               
                  3 6 Gum aloes94
                  
                  .12
               
               
                  1/4 lb Cardamon Seed95
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  1 1/2 lbs Sulphuric acid & bottle
                  .50
               
               
                  one Gallon bottle & vi[negar?]
                  .25
               
               
                  1 qut Tincture with Spirits
                  .37
               
               
                  1 large Tinct with alcoho[l]
                  .75
               
               
                  1 bott[l]e & Sal Tartar9 6
                  .25
               
               
                  1 bottle olive oil
                  .62
               
               
                  1 large vial & Tinct Lytta97
                  
                  .25
               
            
            
               
                  92 Zinc sulf ate used internally acts as an emetic; it is used externally
                        as a styptic and astringent. Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. Z-1.
               
                  93 Cowhage (mucuna, cowage) is efficient but no longer in vogue because it
                        is too disagreeable to take. At one time it was given to adults and children to destroy
                        roundworms. The heavy, thick syrup was administered "every morning for three days, and
                        then followed by a brisk cathartic." Wood and Osol, Dispensatory,
                        1448.
               
                  94 Gum aloes was another drug offered to the pioneer's intestinal
                        tract. According to the amount given, aloe is a laxative, cathartic, or purgative. Pills are a
                        favored means of administration. Action takes place largely in the large intestine. The drug is
                        still deemed beneficial for men of the atomic age. Hatcher, Useful Drugs, 15.
               
                  95 Cardamon (cardamom) is used as a stomachic, carminative, and aromatic.
                        Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. C-16; Hatcher, Useful Drugs,
                        80.
               
                  96 Salt of tartar (potassium carbonate) is too irritating to body tissues
                        to be of any value as an antacid. Years ago it was given as a diuretic and systemic alkalizer
                        for gouty and rheumatic conditions. Today potassium carbonate is used for chemical and
                        pharmaceutical manipulations. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 887-889.
               
                  97 Lytta (cantharides, Spanish flies). Blister beetles, often in the form
                        of a plaster, were used to produce redness, irritation, and blisters on the skin in order to
                        give relief for internal inflammations such as pleurisy, neuritis peritonitis. Cantharides are
                        not used to any extent today. Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. C-10; Wood and
                        Osol, Dispensatory, 252-254.
            
            
            
               
                  1 Bottle & spts nitr98
                  
                  .60
               
               
                  1 Bottle & spts Hartshorn99
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  1 Bottle & Ether
                  .25
               
               
                  1 Bottle & spts Lavender
                  .75
               
               
                  2 Bottles Balsam Copaba100
                  
                  1.00
               
               
                  1 Tinct Bottle & Rhu & Aloes101
                  
                  .62
               
               
                  1 Tinct Bottle & assafoetida102
                  
                  .31
               
               
                  [7?] Tinct & Vinegar Squills103
                  
                  .75
               
               
                   
                  $463.69
               
            
            15
            
               
                  Amt up
                  $463.69
               
               
                  1 Tinct & Elix Pargorc104
                  
                  1.00
               
            
            
               
                  98 This drug refers to sweet spirit of niter (spirit of ethyl nitrite),
                        which, according to the New Domestic Physician, was used as a diuretic. It
                        also has been used to lower blood pressure. In recent times, however, the most common usage has
                        been for vasodilation and as a diaphoretic to reduce mild fevers. Gunn, New
                            Domestic Physician, 778; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1014-1016;
                        Hatcher, Useful Drugs, 167; Taber, Medical Dictionary, p.
                        N-29.
               
                  99 Spirits of Hartshorn (ammonia water, solution of ammonium hydroxide).
                        The fumes, taken by inhalation, have been used for decades as a stimulant in cases of sudden
                        fainting spells. Ammonia water combined with various oils has been used also in stimulating
                        liniments, e.g., ammonia liniment (hartshorn liniment). Gunn, New Domestic
                            Physician, 776; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 597, 606-607.
               
                  100 Balsam copaiba was used externally in the treatment of ulcers and
                        wounds but is seldom used for this purpose today. Internally, it has been administered for
                        gonorrhea and other chronic conditions of the mucous membranes-such as hemorrhoids, chronic
                        diarrhea, and chronic bronchitis. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 343-345.
               
                  101 Mixture or tincture of rhubarb and aloes. Although this combination in
                        the form of pills is still listed today as an official preparation, the tincture is not
                        frequently listed. But since both elements have been noted for their cathartic action, it seems
                        as if the early doctors had another drug to combat the pioneer's constipation. Wood and
                        Osol, Dispensatory, 91-95, 935-937.
               
                  102 Asafetida again; this time in the form of a tincture. See n. 64.
               
                  103 Vinegar of squill (acetum scillae). During the
                        nineteenth century, the medical profession used this solution as a nauseate and diuretic, but
                        more recently it has been employed for its cardiac action. Also, the solution is still utilized
                        in making syrup of squill, which has usefulness as an expectorant. Pharmacopoeia (1831) 45, 225; Gunn, New Domestic Physician, 780; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 10-11, 962-963, 1078-1079.
               
                  104 Elixir paregoric (paregoric elixir, camphorated tincture of opium) is
                        used in small doses for abdominal pains, coughing, and nausea. It has been used successfully in
                        larger doses as an antidiarrheal drug. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1167-1169;
                            
                     
                                United States
                             Maritime Service Hospital Corps School Manual (
                            Washington, D.C.
                        , 1945), 157-158.
            
            
            
               
                  1 Tinct & Ess. peprt105
                  
                  .37
               
               
                  1 Tinct & Ant Wine106
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  1 Tinct Saponica107
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  1 Tinct & Laudanum108
                  
                  .37 1/2
               
               
                  1 Bottle & Tinct valerian109
                  
                  .37 1/2
               
               
                  1 Tinct & Emenagouge110
                  
                  .76
               
               
                  3 pint Tinct Bottles
                  .50
               
               
                  1 qut Tinct Do
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  6 pint Jars with cover
                  .75
               
               
                  2 qut Jars & covers
                  .37
               
            
            
               
                  105 Essence of peppermint (spiritus menthae piperitae)
                        acts as an aromatic stimulant and has proven itself for the relief of intestinal gas, pains, and
                        nausea. Because of its agreeable flavor, peppermint (spirit, oil, and water) is an important
                        addition to other medicinal mixtures. Oil of peppermint was used by the pioneers as a home
                        remedy for the toothache. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 677-678; Buley, Old Northwest, I, 281.
               
                  106 Some of the older antimonial preparations are now obsolete. Antimonial
                        wine (wine of antimony) is one of them. The National Formulary advises the use
                        of tincture of antimony (tincture of tartar emetic) whenever wine of antimony is ordered today.
                        See n. 85 for a general idea of the usage. The Pharmacopoeia of 1831 gave the
                        pioneer doctor these exact details concerning the preparation of antimonial wine: "Take
                        of Tartrate of Antimony and Potassa a scruple; Wine ten fluidounces. Dissolve the Tartrate of
                        Antimony and Potassa in the wine." Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1140,
                        1265; Pharmacopoeia (1831), 67; The National Formulary (
                            Washington, D.C.
                        , 1942), 442.
               
                  107 Evidently this preparation was a tincture made from one of the many
                        saponins which have foaming action producing a soapy lather and aid in the
                        "emulsification and suspension of finely divided precipitates." Several
                        saponins have been useful as cleansing agents. "They am, irritating and produce
                        vomiting and diarrhea if taken internally. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory,
                        1508-1509; Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. S-11.
               
                  108 Laudanum (tincture of opium) was prepared during pioneer days from the
                        following instructions: "Take [of] Opium, in powder, two ounces and a half; Diluted
                        Alcohol two pints. Macerate for fourteen days, and filter through paper." The
                        preparation was used whenever a sedative was required-such as in cases of indigestion, diarrhea,
                        bronchial spasms, nervous conditions and for relief of pain. Pharmacopoeia
                        (1831), 219; Taber, Medical Dictionary, pp. 0-16-16; Gunn, New
                            Domestic Physician, 777.
               
                  109 Tincture of valerian, made from valerian roots, was employed primarily
                        as a sedative. See n. 79. Pharmacopoeia (1831), 27; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1212-1214; National Formulary, 463.
               
                  110 An emmenagogue is "an agent that stimulates the menstrual
                        function." There is no way to determine what drug was listed here in the inventory as
                        an emmenagogue. Perhaps it was sabina (savin) in tincture form. See n. 83. Sabina has also
                        "been much used for the purpose of producing criminal abortion." Needless to
                        say, in such doses, it is extremely dangerous to the patient. The editor wants to point out here
                        that he is merely stating that a drug was available to the pioneer physician for both uses
                        described above. In no way whatsoever is he implying that Dr. Roders misused sabina. Taber,
                        Medical Dictionam, p. E-22; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1506.
            
            
            
               
                  26 Bottles Empty
                  .50
               
               
                  Blistering ointment & Jar
                  .75
               
               
                  Mercurial Ungt & Jar111
                  
                  .75
               
               
                  Citron ointment & Jar112
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  strong Mer Ungt & Jar
                  .12
               
               
                  3 Empty Jars
                  .19
               
               
                  3 v G. Myrrh
                  .25
               
               
                   
                  $472.49
               
            
            16
            
               
                  Amt over
                  $472.49
               
               
                  1/2 Gross vial corks
                  .10
               
               
                  5 lb Salts & Keg
                  .60
               
               
                  10 lbs Pearl ash & Keg113
                  
                  1.20
               
               
                  6 lbs Sulpher Roll & Keg114
                  
                  .75
               
               
                  3 Boxes Seidlitz powders115
                  
                  1.50
               
            
            
               
                  111 This preparation obviously refers to mild mercurial ointment (unguentum), whereas the item listed two lines farther down refers to the
                        strong mercurial ointment; the difference is in the percentage of mercury in each. The mild
                        mercurial ointment, often called "blue ointment," has been used against the
                        body louse—especially the pediculus pubis. This infestation, pediculosis pubis, was probably referred to by the pioneers, as it has been by
                        later generations, as the "crabs." The strong mercurial ointment was rubbed
                        into the skin with the hope that enough would be absorbed by the body to be beneficial in the
                        treatment of syphilis, venereal bubos, and chronic glandular swellings. U.S.M.S.
                            Hospital Corps School Manual, 138; Taber, Medical Dictionary, p.
                        P-31; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1193-1196; Hatcher, Useful
                            Drugs, 151.
               
                  112 Citron ointment (citrine ointment, ointment of mercuric nitrate) was
                        "formerly extensively employed as a parasiticide in various skin diseases-as impetigo,
                        sycosis, ringworm, etc.-but is less frequently used today." Pharmacopoeia (1831), 236; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1196-1196.
               
                  113 Purified potash is referred to as "perlash," which
                        is in turn the common expression for an impure form of potassium carbonate. During the pioneer
                        period, potassium carbonate was undoubtedly procured from wood ashes. See n. 96 for an idea of
                        the use of this item in the inventory. Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. P-105.
               
                  114 Sulfur roll was a roll of cloth impregnated with sulfur which was
                        ignited and burned for fumigation purposes. Taber, Medical Dictionary, p.
                        S-119.
               
                  115 Seidlitz powder is composed of sodium and potassium tartrate, sodium
                        bicarbonate, and tartaric acid. It is a mild cathartic and is taken in a state of effervescence.
                        This preparation was a stock item in the pioneer drug trade. Buley, Old
                        Northwest, I, 314; Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. S-31; George B. Wood and
                        Franklin Bache, The Dispensatory of the 
                                United States
                             of America (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1858), 57.
            
            
            
               
                  4 vials Godfreys cordial116
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  2 vials Thomsons Eye water117
                  
                  .26
               
               
                  2 Jars Judkins ointment118
                  
                  .44
               
               
                  10 vials British oil119
                  
                  .60
               
               
                  3 Medica m[entems?]120
                  
                  .38
               
               
                  1 Worm Seed oil121
                  
                  .12
               
               
                  1 Batemans Drops122
                  
                  . 6
               
               
                  5 Turlingtons Balsam123
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  3 i Sponge
                  .18
               
               
                  3 6 Liquoice
                  .18
               
               
                  1 1/2 lb G. aloes
                  .38
               
               
                  1/2 G. Foetida
                  .50
               
               
                   
                  $480.38
               
            
            
               
                  116 Godfrey's cordial was "intended as a preparation for
                        exhibiting opium in children." It was used for years chiefly as an antidiarrheal agent.
                        Although it is now a preparation of the past, the editor has seen it in stock (half-ounce bottle
                        for 256) and understands that some of the old-timers of today still call for Godfrey's
                        cordial. Joseph P. Remington and Horatio C. Wood, Jr., U.S. Dispensatory (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1918), 1818.
               
                  117 The editor assumes that Thompson's eye water was some type of
                        mild eye wash. It was advertised locally in the newspapers. See The Indianian (
                            Charlestown
                        , Ind.), November 6, 1839.
               
                  118 Dr. William Judkins' Specific Ointment was advertised in the 
                            Madison
                         Republican and Banner, August 29, 1833, as being good for sore legs, sore eyes,
                        ulcers, tumors, bums, sprains, and ringworms.
               
                  119 British oil was at one time a very popular remedy-a liniment used to
                        stimulate the supply of blood to a local area. One of its basic ingredients was crude oil or
                        petroleum. Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1474-1476; Remington and Wood, U.S.
                            Dispensatory, 796.
               
                  120
                        Medica mentems is an elusive item which cannot be located in the various
                        medical reference works and which seems to be advertised in only one of a dozen contemporary
                        newspapers. In this advertisement it is not identified but is merely included in a list of drugs
                        offered for sale. See The Indianian (
                            Charlestown
                        , Ind.), November 6, 1839.
               
                  121 Wormseed oil (oil of American wormseed, oil of chenopodium) was used
                        almost "exclusively as an anthelmintic." It was efficient against hookworm and
                        roundworm, but wormseed oil was "less efficacious against tapeworms." Wood and
                        Osol, Dispensatory, 752-754.
               
                  122 Bateman Pectoral Drops were popular as a medicine to relieve coughing
                        and chest conditions; they were, however, "more useful in intestinal than pectoral
                        complaints." Remington and Wood, U.S. Dispensatory, 1836.
               
                  123 Turlington's Balsam was sometimes used for chronic dysentery,
                        but it was principally employed as an inhalant and expectorant in chronic bronchitis. Remington
                        and Wood, U.S. Dispensatory, 1133.
            
            
            17
            
               
                  Amt up
                  $480.38
               
               
                  3 ii Bitter almonds124
                  
                  .12
               
               
                  3 10 Verdigris125
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  17 shoemakers heel Balls126
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  1/2 lb Peruvian Bark
                  .60
               
               
                  1 Tin & 1 glass funnel 1 pt Measure
                  .37
               
               
                  1 Tumbler & 1 Cupping glass127
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  5 Doz Batemans Drops
                  3.75
               
               
                  2 Doz & 9 Liquid opodeldoc128
                  
                  3.44
               
               
                  1 Doz & 10 Solid opodeldoc
                  1.62
               
               
                  7 Boxes Lees pills128
                  
                  .87
               
               
                  1/2 Doz Curtis Ink powder
                  .25
               
            
            
               
                  124 Bitter almond oil (oil of bitter almond) acts physiologically like
                        hydrocyanic acid—potent stuff and a deadly poison. The oil has been employed in a
                        very weak solution for "cases of troublesome itching" and to soothe and soften
                        the skin. It has sometimes been used "to conceal the taste of cod liver oil and of
                        castor oil." Gunn, New Domestic Physician, 773; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 739-740.
               
                  125 Verdigris, a "mixture of various basic acetates of
                        copper," is rarely used today for medicinal purposes. It was used locally for its
                        "astringent, caustic, and fungicidal properties." Gunn lists it as being
                        "violently emetic." Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 1336; Gunn,
                            New Domestic Physician, 780.
               
                  126 Shoemaker's heelball is a composition of lampblack and wax.
                        Shoemakers use it for polishing. Antiquarians use it for copying inscriptions on stone.
               
                  127 The cupping glass was a glass vessel that was applied to the skin to
                        create suction and draw blood to the surface. Cupping was used to stimulate the local area, to
                        lessen pain, and to relieve congestion. Taber, Medical Dictionary, p. C-116.
               
                  128 Opodeldoc (camphorated soap) was composed of soap, camphor, alcohol,
                        etc. Dr. Rodgers had opodeldoc in the solid and liquid form. The liquid was used as a liniment;
                        the solid as a soft ointment. Even the solid opodeldoc is often referred to as "solid
                        liniment of soap." Recent authorities have no praise for it when they state that the
                        "proportion of active ingredients is too small to exert any therapeutic
                        effect." Pharmacopoeia (1831), 141; Wood and Osol, Dispensatory, 600; National Formulary, 232.
               
                  129 Doctor Samuel H. P. Lee's New-
                            London
                         Bilious Pills were advertised during 1821 in a 
                            Louisville
                        , Ky., newspaper. Even at that date, the ad stated that Dr. Lee's Pills had
                        been in use for twenty years. They were the concoction of Dr. Samuel H. P. Lee, of 
                            New London
                        , Conn., and the title indicates the nature of their use. 
                            Louisville
                         Public Advertiser, October 19, 1821; 
                            Louisville
                        
                        Daily Journal, March 18 and December 7, 1831.
            
            
            
               
                  3 papers Sloughters bitters130
                  
                  .75
               
               
                  1 Lanthorn & Sadlers Stool131
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  1 Silver Pencil
                  .56
               
               
                  1 Sign Board
                  .25
               
               
                   
                  $494.66
               
            
            [18]
            We the subscribers after having been duly sworn by Alexander Mars a Justice of the Peace of 
                        Clarke County
                     Indiana to make an Inventory and appraisment of the goods & chattles of Andrew
                    Rodgers deceased, Certify, that the foregoing is the Inventory and appraisment made by us, in the
                    presence of Patrick Welch, the Administrator of the Estate of said Rodgers—(Amount of
                    appraisment errors excepted is four hundred & ninity four dollars and fifty five cents.)
                    31st day August 1833.
            ANDW. P. HAY JOHN WORK
            [19]
            
               
                  one lot of Medicine from saddle bags
                  1.50
               
               
                  one syringe
                  .75
               
            
            
               
                  130 Sloughter's Bitters is an item as elusive as medica mentem. See n. 120. An array of references was also searched for
                        Sloughter's Bitters-but to no avail. The title indicates that the mixture was probably
                        a tonic which was used for the intestinal tract; however, one cannot be positive.
               
                  131 "Lanthorn" is an archaic term meaning
                        "lantern."
            
         
         
         
         
            Water (?) Witching Can Be Fun
            R. Carlyle Buley∗
            
            This is a review of a book plus some comments on the art of water witching, dowsing, divining,
                    bletonizing, or "rod walking." The reviewer's qualifications for this
                    task are as follows: (1) he has read the book; (2) he is a "witch"—a
                    right powerful one. Further, he believes that he has some "contributions,"
                    suggestions, arguments, and questions, which, though they may not add mightily to the corpus of
                    scientific knowledge, at least may serve further to obfuscate the issue and add to the fun.
            The art of water witching is an ancient and venerable one, and the literature on the subject is
                        voluminous.1 Folklorists, students of magic, novelists, and even scientists
                    have written hundreds of books and articles on the subject, yet "witching" remains
                    as much of a mystery today as it was when Georgius Agricola wrote his treatise in 1556.2
            
            The book under review is Water Witching U.S.A., by Evon Z. Vogt and Ray Hyman (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1959. Pp. xl, 248. Illustrations, appendices, bibliography. $4.95).
                    Dr. Vogt is associate professor of anthropology at 
                        Harvard
                     University, and Dr. Hyman, a psychologist, is research consultant in behavioral
                    studies, General Electric Company, 
                        New York
                    . The authors do not tell us how they first acquired their interest in water witching,
                    or whether they are "witches," but one concludes from internal evidence that they
                    are not. At any rate, they have produced an interesting and worth-while book which contains almost
                    all—but not quite—that any mentally astute, socially aware, and
                    self-respecting citizen need know about the subject.
            Water witching, like the question of the proper way to make a mint julep (or a martini), or whether
                    it is possible to make ice in the summertime—which almost started a feud in 
                        Kentucky
                    —is a controversial one. As the authors of Water Witching
                    U.S.A. comment, "Few subjects arouse such vigorous 
                  
                     ∗ R. Carlyle Buley is professor of history at Indiana
                            University.
                  
                     1 S. W. Tromp, in Psychical Physics: A Scientific
                                Analysis of Dowsing, Radiesthesia, and Kindred Divining Phenomena (
                                New York
                            , 1949) has a bibliography of some 700 items.
                  
                     2 De re metallica (
                                Basel
                            , 
                                Switzerland
                            , 1566).
               
                     and emotional debate as the question of the validity of water
                    witching…" (p. 5). Though "geologists, water engineers, government
                    officials, and other scientists have opposed this unorthodoxy ever since it became popular some four
                    hundred years ago" (p. 3), it is only necessary to read extracts from the newspapers of our
                    day (several are cited in Chapter I) to realize that there are those equally educated, who hold that
                    these "geological eggheads" and other "ignorami" should have
                    some sense hammered into their heads. Most persons feel that they have to be either for water witching or against it; there seem to be few neutrals.
            The book is organized around six questions as follows: (1) "What is water
                    witching?"; (2) "Does it work?"; (3) "What makes the rod
                    move?"; (4) "Who is the witch?"; (5) "Under what conditions is
                    water witching practiced in the 
                        United States
                    ?"; and (6) "Why does water witching continue to be practiced in the 
                        United States
                    ?" After study of the literature on the subject, the authors devised a
                    questionnaire (reproduced in the appendix) which was sent to five hundred county agricultural
                    agents; they observed and interviewed diviners in different states and corresponded with diviners in
                    various countries. The basic data were sifted by TBM machines which tabulated the extent of water
                    witching and the conditions under which it is practiced.
            In Chapter II, "The Family Tree," the history of water witching is traced and the
                    techniques explained. Though some writers find evidence of the practice among ancient peoples, no
                    positive evidence of water witching occurs until the fifteenth century. Witching apparently
                    originated in the mining districts of what is now 
                        Germany
                     (Luther issued a proclamation against the rod in 1518), then spread throughout Europe,
                    to Africa, and parts of Asia, the Americas, 
                        Australia
                    , and 
                        New Zealand
                    . The technique has not changed since Agricola's day. The practitioner takes a
                    forked branch of live wood (almost any kind) with a butt end; he grasps the ends of the branches
                    with his palms up, points the butt end up, springs (bends) the branches apart somewhat, and walks to
                    and fro to find the spot at which the butt end will describe an arc of 180 degrees and point at the
                    earth. A series of photo diagrams illustrates the technique. In Chapter II we are also introduced to
                    Kenneth Roberts and his high-powered diviner, Henry Gross, who was reputed by his  discoverer to be able to locate water, estimate its depth, etc., even
                    from a map.
            Chapters III and IV deal with "Does it work?"; that is, does the rod indicate
                    water. Case histories are recorded, controlled experiments described, and the data interpreted.
                    Result: case not proved. In one recorded experiment with seventy-five dowsers, not one did better
                    than chance in returning to an "underground stream" with his eyes closed or in
                    locating the same "underground water" that others had located. Here our argument
                    begins.
            Before proceeding further, let us make two things absolutely clear. (After all, the reviewer thinks
                    of himself as a more or less sane and law-abiding citizen and does not want to go too far out on a
                    limb—or even a switch!) First, though he has had some twenty-five years experience with
                    "witching" and has "discovered" some scores of
                    "witches," he has conducted no scientific experiments, recorded no mass data. He
                    has not "witched" the Sahara Desert, the Empire State Building, or Wall Street.
                    (That might be an idea!) He knows nothing about metal gadgets, mechanical divining rods, and
                    perpetual motion machines. Second, though he admits to being a "witch"
                    ("warlock" or "wizard" somehow do not seem to fit), he means
                    merely that he is one in whose hands the rod twists; twists with a measurable physical force, a
                    force strong enough not only to peel the bark off the rod and the skin off his hands, but, after a
                    certain number of passes, to twist the rod in two above the hands. This force can be measured by
                    holding a small spring scale in one's mouth and attaching a string to it and to the butt of
                    the rod; the force varies, of course, with the size of the rod and the "hotness"
                    of the spot which affects the rod. The reviewer does not have the slightest notion what
                        the movement of the rod indicates. It might indicate bubbles in the earth, extinct
                    volcanoes, moles, or the meanderings of the devil. But it sure does indicate!
            What is the feeling like? Imagine, those of you who are not endowed with the power, you
                    "non-witches," that you are carrying a flexible cane fishing pole across a given
                    area of land, holding it at an angle of 45 to 90 degrees. Suddenly the pole begins to bend and point
                    towards the earth—about like the pull of a half-pound sunfish or bluegill, but more
                    steady. Pass the spot and the rod straightens up again. That is the  feeling. The first time it happens it makes one feel foolish, silly,
                    spooky, but in time one learns to live with "the power" and to accept it as a
                    special talent which distinguishes him from the ordinary run of citizens—like being able
                    to whistle two tunes at once or always to find a parking place.
            Perhaps the reviewer's case may be of interest to other "witches," active
                    or potential—and the world is full of them! Though he grew up with a heritage of
                    mid-western pioneer folklore—and loved it—one thing he could not swallow was
                    "water witching." For forty years he laughed and scoffed at the idea, not only of
                    the rod locating water, but that it moved from any other motivation than that given it by the person
                    who held it. He even regarded persons who thought the rod might move because of
                    reasons unknown as being slightly "tetched" or
                    "hypoed"—and not entirely to be trusted either indoors or out in the
                    rain. Then in 1937 he started to build a house in the country. Foundation stakes were driven and a
                    stake set just off one corner to indicate the well site.
            When the well driller looked over the situation he asked whether it would not be a good idea to have
                    the well location "witched." The reviewer started to laugh, then suddenly realized
                    that this was an opportunity to see, firsthand, something which he knew would be a joke and a fraud,
                    but, since the fee was to be only $2.00, fairly cheap amusement even at depression
                    prices. The WPA worker selected to do the job did not keep his appointment, but the well driller
                    said that sometimes the rod worked in his hands. So the skeptical house builder sat down on a stump,
                    filled his pipe, and prepared to be amused. Within a minute, however, his eyes were popping. It was
                    obvious that those gnarled hands gripping the ends of the rod until the knuckles were white were not
                    making that rod dip.
            "Here, let me have that thing!" Back and forth over the same spots went the
                    skeptic. There was no more result than if he had been carrying a WPA shovel. (WPA shovels were
                    practically immovable objects.) Then the well driller said, "Sometimes it works if we join
                    hands." He was right. As long as inside hands were joined and each person held one branch
                    of the rod with his outside hand, the "non-witch" was a "witch"
                    and got the full feel of the power. Had there been any lingering doubt it was dispelled. But, if
                    contact  were broken, even by a quarter of an inch, the
                    "non-witch" was just an object, foolishly marching back and forth with a V-shaped
                    switch in his hand. For two hours the performance went on. Fortunately the house site was about two
                    hundred yards from the highway, otherwise passing acquaintances would probably have reported strange
                    goings on in 
                        Richland
                     Township by that college professor feller. Surely the well driller must have added
                    several feet to the cost of the well for services rendered beyond the call of duty. Coincidentally,
                    the spot where the well stake was driven proved to be the strongest pulling spot within a
                    half-acre—it still is—and a five thousand-gallon-per-day well was brought in,
                    but the well would have been drilled at that spot regardless, and there is no doubt that the amount
                    of water would have been the same, "witch" confirmation or no.
            A few days later the mistress of the new home-to-be, though somewhat bored with a description of the
                    foregoing events, was persuaded to try her success with the rod—the same one used by the
                    well driller. No sooner had she tried to set it in position than the butt end flew back and hit her
                    in the face. The rod was simply uncontrollable. She was standing too close to the "hot
                    spot." So, with a "witch" in the family, a demonstrator was usually at
                    hand for picnics and other social events, and the "non-witch" could always get a
                    vicarious thrill by holding hands with the "witch." Then one day about two years
                    later when the reviewer picked up a switch and was wandering aimlessly about, there it was.
                    "The power" had suddenly descended upon him and he has been a
                    "witch" ever since.
            But back to our book and the report of an experiment (p. 73) which showed failure of the diviners to
                    "locate an underground stream" and return to it blindfolded, and failure of
                    different diviners to agree on the "location of underground water." Since we do
                    not know what the rod indicates, let us take out the "underground
                    water" (which generally is not in "streams" anyway) and substitute
                    "spot which affects the rod"—hereafter called the "hot
                    spot." The reviewer will offer very fair odds in depreciated promises to
                    pay—commonly called dollars—that the rod in his hands will dip at the same
                    spots in fair weather or foul, in broad daylight or darkest night, whether he is dressed in swimming
                    trunks or formal clothes, blindfolded or both eyes wide open. Further,  he will offer even odds that the rod in the hands of any given number
                    of "witches"— whether card carrying members of the union or mere
                    neophytes—will indicate, pull, bend down, or flop at the same spots. He will map those
                    spots in advance. (Given enough takers he feels confident that he can retire from his onerous duties
                    as a teacher and devote his time to writing scholarly and non-remunerative articles such as this. He
                    might even endow a home for retired "witches.")
            Then comes this choice bit (p. 33): "Another part of the folklore that crops up now and then
                    in our American sample is the idea that a person who is not gifted as a diviner can temporarily gain
                    the ‘power’ if he is in physical contact with a gifted person." If by
                    "folklore" is meant myth, something said or believed which isn't true,
                    this statement itself is certainly "folklore." Physical contact always works, or
                    at least it has never failed in several hundred trials. Perhaps the ten-thousandth case might prove
                    to be a blooper, who knows. At any rate we offer odds of ten to one on this one and should come out
                    better off than the "house" or the government on the pari-mutuels or the
                    "one-armed bandits." Contact even "works" through a circle of
                    persons. With one or more "witches" inside the circle and end men who are
                    "non-witches" grasping the ends of the rod, it sometimes appears that the effect
                    is more potent than in the hands of the "witches" singly. Surely the authors, who
                    have delved into this subject so deeply, have not denied themselves this intriguing and confusing
                    experience.
            Now for the most interesting—and controversial—part of the book. Chapter VI,
                    "Why Does the Rod Move?," presents two general theories: (1) that it moves from
                    physical causes, and (2) that the cause is psychological.
            Chief among the physical causes is supposed to be the internal stress or tension which the V-shaped
                    rod suffers when the diviner "pushes the two forks toward one another to create the
                    tautness in the rod," (it works better when they are pulled apart), and hence slight
                    rotation of the wrists will cause the rod to move. Sounds good, BUT: Since the tension is present in
                    anyone's hands, why doesn't the rod work for anyone? And why, in the hands of the
                    "witch" does it work only at certain places? And why will the rod always go
                    forward if the "hot spot" is in front of the rod holder and always go backward if
                    it is behind him? Unless someone  can answer these questions by
                    way of the laws of mechanics, we can drop the internal tension theory.
            Still more difficult to accept is the second theory that the rod moves because of unconscious
                    "muscular activity" ("motor automatism," "ideomotor
                    action," "cryptesthesia" or whatnot).
            
                    According to this explanation, "the dowser. … is a person endowed with a
                        supernormal cognitive faculty, which, its nature being unknown we call, after Professor Richet,
                        cryptesthesia By means of this cryptesthesia, knowledge of whatever object is searched for
                        enters the dowser's subconcious and is revealed by means of an unconscious muscular
                            reaction."3
               
                
            Freely translated into English this statement would appear to mean that the "witch"
                    has an idea in his head which someway or other comes out through his muscles and effects the rod.
                    This theory the authors agree with "in part."
            So—they wind up with a chapter (V) on "From Talking Horses to Talking
                    Twigs," which in between these two topics covers revolving tables (from the laying on of
                    hands), Ouija boards, and "mind reading" feats. This is an interesting chapter but
                    in the reviewer's humble (?) judgment has about as much to do with what makes the rod move
                    as it would with planting potatoes or running a bulldozer. What if the counting horse's
                    trainer did reveal the time to stop pawing by some slight facial or muscular movement? (Talking
                    horses are fairly common, but can one always believe what they say? Talking tables are scarcer but
                    more easily housed, and it costs less to feed them.) And what would be the relation between the fact
                    that some persons can make an Ouija board talk and the fact that a magnet will make a piece of iron
                    jump through the air-but not a piece of copper. The authors admit (p. 120) that some persons might
                    question whether these subjects have a common denominator with witching, hence they decide
                    "to look more closely at the behavior of the rod and also bring to our aid laboratory
                    experiments on suggestibility and hypnosis."
            Even more questionable is the chapter which follows. In a section titled "The Psychophysics
                    of the Divining Rod" 
                  
                     3 Vogt and Hyman, Water Witching U.S.A., 127,
                            quoting Sir William Barrett and Theodore Besterman, The Divining Rod (
                                London
                            , 1926).
               
                     (pp. 130-131), we are told that we "should keep these
                    aspects of the divining situation in mind": 
                  (1) "The diviner learns his trade through diffusion or imitation."
                  This is about as true as the statement that the kitten learns to catch the mouse or use
                            the sandbox by watching the mother (or some other) cat, which any aelurophile knows is not
                            true at all.
                  (2) "The witching process involves intense concentration and the focusing of
                            attention upon the task at hand. The eyes are typically rivited upon the point of the
                            rod."
                  (3) "During this process the diviner is usually described as being in a trancelike state and oblivious of all distracting stimuli. Often the
                            witching of the well is accompanied by physical exhaustion."
                  (4) "The muscles and the body of the diviner are under considerable tension. The rod is compressed with great force and this compression is maintained
                            over a considerable period of time."
                  (5) "Not only is the witching activity physically exhausting, but it is
                            frequently described in terms of an intense emotional
                            experience."
                  (6) "In this state the diviner is receptive to cues of which he
                            is not consciously aware."
               
                
            Let us tackle points two through six en masse and all at once. One is tempted to reply in the
                    parlance of the realm used by General McAuliffe when he communicated with the Germans. Let us say
                    rather that it would appear that someone has been pulling someone's leg. Perhaps there has
                    also been some occupational build-up and showing off on the part of operating witches to make their
                    labor appear more difficult and important, like the smoke screen of meaningless jargon laid down by
                    bureaucrats. (Really, there is nothing like it.) Slipping a slider low over the N.E. corner of the
                    home plate, driving a golf ball, or dodging drivers in traffic requires some concentration, some
                    coordination between mind and muscle, but "witching," that is holding the rod
                    while it does its stuff, requires no more concentration than turning a door knob, stubbing
                    one's toe, or falling down stairs. One can do it while dancing a jig, reading a newspaper
                    aloud or- if someone would hold it-tooting a tuba horn. As for that "intense emotional
                    experience," it is about the same as sneezing or tying a shoelace, and as for
                    "physical exhaustion," about the same as lighting a cigarette—with a
                    match, not a  lighter. So, not being in this complex state, how
                    can the diviner be "receptive to cues of which he is not consciously
                    aware"?
            Point No. 7 states that the "divining ability improves with practice." The reviewer
                    knows of no evidence to support such a statement.
            Point No. 8 is as follows: "The diviner has no feedback from his arms to tell him that his
                    muscles are initiating the action; he is unaware of any involvement on the part of
                    his muscles until after the rod has begun its move, and he feels that his hands are trying to
                    prevent the action."
            This is revealing. Not only is there no "feedback," but the diviner is unaware of
                    any involvement of his muscles (that is, in making the rod move) because there isn't any.
                    And he feels that "his hands are trying to prevent the action" because they are.
                    What is the natural muscular response when someone suddenly trys to snatch something out of
                    one's hands? Is it to relax the hands or to hold on tighter?
            Point No. 9: "Not only is the diviner unaware of any muscular involvement on his part but he
                    seems to have a defensive need to assert (even when no one questions him) his innocence in regard to
                    the rod's behavior."
            Is it the "witch" who protests his innocence first or is it the skeptic who accuses
                    him of manipulating the rod who usually takes the offensive? And if one is accused of a heinous
                    crime, isn't it natural for him "to assert his innocence"? Or even if he
                    is accused of merely being a faker?
            Next the psychologists are brought forth, William James among others, with their explanations of
                    "ideomotor action," that is, the theory that "ideas may
                    become the sources of muscular movement, independently either of volitions or of emotions."
            Could be, in many things, but not in handling the rod. If so, how come the "witch"
                    can consciously, and with all the strength of his grip (and to get a better grip,
                    leave several stubs of smaller branches near the ends of the rod to fit between the crotches of the
                    fingers), try to turn the rod the opposite way to that which it wants to go
                    without success. Remember, if the witch's grip is strong enough, the rod will
                        eventually twist itself in two as a result of the opposing forces. AND HOW DOES ONE ACCOUNT
                    FOR THE FACT THAT THE ROD WILL ACT JUST THE SAME IF HELD IN THE JAWS OF TWO PAIRS OF PLIERS? Do 
                    their "implicit muscular responses accompany thinking" (p. 137)?
                    What muscular responses? Whose thinking? The reviewer will believe this when he sees a pair of
                    pliers on a table begin to snap and rotate its jaws because someone had an idea it ought to.
            Other sections of this chapter deal with "Ideomotor Action and Suggestibility," and
                    hypnotic susceptibility and posthypnotic suggestibility tests. There is no doubt that these tests
                    are valid in many instances, but do they apply to the subject in hand? The reviewer does not believe
                    that they do. He has yet to learn of an eight-foot high jump or a 350-yard golf drive brought off as
                    a result of suggestion, either before, during, or after hypnosis or otherwise. He imagines there
                    would be a fairly good cash reward for any psychologist or hypnotist who can produce such results.
            For persistent doubters of the rod's pull, or better still for those hard-boiled cynics who
                    accuse the "witch" of manipulating it, the following stunt works often enough to
                    be worth trying: Cut a heavy rod with a butt about the diameter of a healthy broom handle. (If you
                    are real mean and vindictive, you may load the butt with nails or lead.) Try out the doubting Thomas
                    in an area where the attraction is weak—just strong enough to determine whether or not he
                    is a "witch." If he is—and the chances are perhaps one to five or six
                    that he is—then lead him in front of a "hot spot," or back him into it.
                    The first time the butt of the rod smacks him between the eyes he will probably whirl around to see
                    who did it. Reactions to successive blows are likely to be varied. If the subject of this experiment
                    should be a psychologist, ask him whether the bump on his forehead resulted from his own idea that
                    he should whack himself on the head or whether it was suggested to him by someone.
            Some years ago the reviewing "witch" was tormented by two scientists until he
                    finally persuaded them either to "put up or shut up." As he had hoped, one of
                    them—the most satirical-turned out to be a "witch." For several
                    hours—until darkness intervened—said scientist paraded back and forth trying
                    to stop the rod from turning. Finally, thinking he was out of hearing distance, he threw down the
                    rod and said: "Damn it, there isn't any such thing.—But there
                    is!" From that day until he left for other parts, he would never discuss
                    "witching."
            
            The authors conclude Chapter VI with a statement of their belief that "the rod's
                    behavior is a problem for psychology and physiology." Yet on the last page (152) they seem
                    to admit that the cause of the rod's action is not known: 
                        This is not to say that there are no unknowns in the story of the rod's behavior.
                            There are sufficient unsolved problems to challenge the physiologist and psychologist for
                            many decades to come. But these problems are not peculiar to water witching. They are
                            problems involving the more general questions of human behavior—problems such as
                            how stimuli initiate sensory and motor behavior, the complicated and elusive problem of
                            consciousness and awareness, and the dramatic manifestations that occur in abnormal and
                            emotional behavior.
                    
                
            The remainder of the book is, to the reviewer, a sort of anticlimax. Chapter VII,
                    "Who's Who in Witching," indicates there are relatively few young
                    "witches" or female "witches." The reviewer would guess that
                    there are as many or more female "witches" than male. After all, are not women
                    filled with more mysterious powers than men? Intuition for instance. Also, data collected by the
                    authors seem to justify the belief that "water witching is something that thrives only
                    among the uneducated" (p. 161). Eliminating the word "water" and assuming
                    that college students, college graduates, and college professors are "educated,"
                    then the percentage of "witches" among the uneducated must be quite large.
            Statistics in Chapter VIII, "For Whom the Witch Tells," show that the number of
                    "water diviners" in the 358 counties sampled varies from zero to 343 per 100,000
                    population; the average is 18 per 100,000. Certainly this low figure has little or no
                    "correlation coefficient" to the number of "witches." Almost any
                    county probably. has several hundred "witches." The only thing is they
                    don't know that they are "witches" or, if they do, do not go around
                    trying to locate wells. Other data show that the practice of witching for water is more common in
                    rural than in urban regions, and in locations which have water problems than in those which do not.
                    This, of course, is to be expected.
            The last chapter, "Water Witching as Magical Divination" tries to provide
                    "a psychological rationale for water witching," that is, an explanation of the
                    practice of trying to locate water with the rod, which, "from the scientist's
                    viewpoint, is 'irrational' divination," divination being the "
                    'art or practice of foreseeing or foretelling future events or discovering hidden
                    knowledge'" (p. 192). The conclusion for  the
                    book is expressed in the first sentence of this chapter: "We have reached the conclusion
                    that water witching does not work as a reliable empirical technique to locate underground
                    water." The reviewer agrees. But what makes the rod move and why does it not move for
                    everyone? This question has not been settled.
            Obviously there is need for further investigation and more exact data on a number of points. Why not
                    test ten thousand people for witching propensities and determine percentages by age, sex, and
                    education? The reviewer hazards a guess that perhaps a thousand of them would prove to have
                    "the power." At any rate the number would be surprising. (What we need is not
                    fewer witch hunts but bigger and better organized ones. Some foundation, attention!) Can a
                    "non-witch" become a "witch"? See above, pp. 68-69. Can a
                    "witch" lose the power? No data exist on this at all. Someone should gather some.
                    Will the rod work when the "witch" is not in direct contact with the
                    ground—on stilts, roller skates, or in a wheel chair? (The reviewer is afraid to try
                    stilts or skates and is superstitious about the wheel chair. The rod does not work for him in his
                    car). And will it work several stories off the ground? (A fellow "witch" got some
                    strange results in a fourth-story apartment. In some rooms the switch dipped at certain corners or
                    tried to point out particular windows. In one room it sought to elongate itself upward). And will it work in an airplane? The reviewer has made no
                    "researches" along this line; he believes that there is a limit as to how far one
                    can go in calling attention to his peculiarities in public places. But someone should try it.
            Just one more thing—the subject of map dowsing a la Kenneth Roberts and
                    his dowser Henry Gross: How big a map—what scale—for a West Indies island or a
                    farm in 
                        Kansas
                    ? In either instance the "hotspot"—which usually covers a
                    few square yards—would be a mere pinpoint in size. How witch this? And suppose a map of
                    an area devoid of "hotspots" were held over a "hotspot" on the
                    ground. Which would the rod indicate, the map or the ground? On this subject the reviewer agrees
                    with the diviner quoted on page 154 of the book: "I don't believe in it. I think
                    it's baloney."
            What are the reviewer's conclusions about what makes the rod work? None. What makes the bit
                    of iron jump through the air to the magnet or one mass attract another mass? Yes-lines of force, but
                    what is in those lines and  what do they take hold of? What
                    enables the homing pigeon to find its home? What makes the water fowl (or other bird) which has
                    never been with the flock take off at a certain time and find its way to the wintering or breeding
                    grounds? What makes lemmings go to sea periodically and commit mass suicide? What makes the seedling
                    vine grow toward the nearest support? What makes people want to go to the moon?
            Who knows? Perhaps, the explanation offered by Henry Mager (Water Diviners and Their
                        Methods [
                        London
                    , 19311) makes the most sense; he thinks there may be evidence that the rod's
                    actions are governed by the laws of electrodynamics rather than unconscious muscular action.
                    Possibly so.
            A generation ago Clarence W. Alvord, one of the better American historians of his day, wrote an
                    amusing and confusing article entitled "Musings of an Inebriated Historian.4 In it Alvord got into an argument with the ghost of Henry Adams, but the
                    "inebriated" historian was no match for Adams' ghost, stone sober. So it
                    is with this article on "witching," which might be retitled "The
                    Bedizened Bemusings of a Bewitched Historian." The historian hasn't much of a
                    chance against the scientists, but he is sure that he has the "witches" on his
                    side. Perhaps the "pro witch" view as expressed by a disciple of Bleton almost a
                    century and a half ago may eventually prevail: 
                        The learned world has been always governed more by imagination and fashion than by judgment.
                            And we have seen the most splendid theories, the united effort of the talent of ages moulder
                            into their original nothingness, before the decomposing quality of a few simple facts.
                        Shall I then shrink from a public avowal of a peculiar property, merely because it may be
                            doubted by the wise and ridiculed by the ignorant? Or, rather, should not this stimulate me
                            to attempt to establish its existence? I know that I possess the property. And every trial
                            hitherto made has proved that in me it does exist.5
                  
                    
                
            At any rate, dear reader, don't let the scientific "eggheads" and other
                    "ignorami" scare you out. You can have lots of fun, and to date (March, 1960)
                    there is no amusement tax on it. Cut your own switch, be your own witch, and at the end of a
                    lifetime you will probably know no more about what makes the rod move (or what it indicates) than at
                    the beginning. But as Galileo said, "And yet it does move!"
            
               
                  4 See The American Mercury, V (August, 1925), 434-441.
               
                  5
                        The 
                                New York
                             Statesman, June 19, 1822, quoted in The 
                                Kentucky
                             Gazette (
                            Lexington
                        ), August 15, 1822.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Civil War Centennial Commission
            Governor Harold W. Handley has appointed the following persons to membership on the Indiana Civil War
                    Centennial Commission: Ira J. Anderson, Uniontown; J. J. Bailey, Anderson; Robert L. Brokenburr, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Donald F. Carmony, 
                        Bloomington
                    ; John Caylor, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Robert Christianson, 
                        Mishawaka
                    ; Roy Combs, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; A. W. Crandall, 
                        Greencastle
                    ; Owen Crecelius, 
                        Crawfordsville
                    ; Carrol F. Dillon, 
                        Evansville
                    ; Mrs. Roy Dunnington, 
                        Franklin
                    ; George L. Fisher, 
                        Leesburg
                    ; Hubert H. Hawkins, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; William A. Koch, Santa Claus; Eli Lilly, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Maurice L. Mendenhall, Sheridan; Mrs. Edward C. Rumpler, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Miss Elsa Strassweg, 
                        New Albany
                    ; Gordon s. Thomp son, 
                        Evansville
                    ; Melville E. Watson, 
                        Greenfield
                    ; Carl Zenor, Bainbridge.
            The commission has had only a few meetings to date. Its chairman, Carl Zenor, invites ideas or
                    suggestions from members of the Indiana Historical Society for review by members of the
                commission.
         
         
            Indiana Sesquicentennial Commission
            The following persons have been appointed to membership on the Indiana Sesquicentennial Commission by
                    Governor Harold W. Handley: V. Dewey Annakin, 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; John V. Beamer, 
                        Wabash
                    ; Oliver Bumb, 
                        Muncie
                    ; Donald F. Carmony, 
                        Bloomington
                    ; Leo Craig, Delphi; Richard H. Gemmecke, 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; John T. Goodwin, 
                        Brookville
                    ; Hubert H. Hawkins, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Clarence Jackson, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Paul Myers, Bloomingdale; Marbury B. Ogle, 
                        Lafayette
                    ; Edward D. Pierre, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Charles Rochelle, 
                        Evansville
                    ; Hassil Schenck, 
                        Lebanon
                    ; Lucius Somers, Hoagland; Paul E. Strate, Freelandville; Howard Wilcox, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Governor Handley and LieutenantiGovernor Crawford Parker are ex-officio members of the
                    commission.
            The commission has thus far held two meetings. Its chairman, Donald F. Carmony, invites ideas or
                    suggestions from members of the Indiana Historical Society for consideration by members of the
                    commisison.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Benjamin Harrison: Hoosier Statesman. Volume II, From the Civil War
                        to the White House, 1865-1888. By Harry J. Sievers. (
                        New York
                    : University Publishers, Inc., 1959. Pp. xxi, 602. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $6.00.)
            To judge a man's character or to evaluate his contributions to his fellow man on the basis
                    of a few personal traits and an equally few events selected from a long and active life is at best
                    presumptuous. But, through the medium of history texts, this type of judgement too often forms the
                    essence of Benjamin Harrison in the minds of students in survey courses in American history.
                    Harrison, if remembered at all, may be remembered as a president (and who usually hears he was
                    anything but a president) who had "some political experience," or who has the
                    dubious honor of being "one of the more notable presidential nonentities." Or, as
                    just the grandson of William Henry, he has been described as "colorless in personality,
                    cold in manner, and singularly aloof."
            In this second volume of a proposed three-volume biography, Father Sievers' meticulous
                    research has produced a most readable and probably definitive account of an energetic, warm, and
                    human Harrison who was more than Indiana's only president. One who participated actively in
                    state and national politics for more than two decades, including a term as 
                        United States
                     senator, and, who for the same period was leader of his states' Republican
                    party, certainly had "some political experience." One who was the financial fount
                    for more dependent relatives than any one person should have, and who, for over forty years, was an
                    indefatigable leader in his church must have been more than colorless, cold, and aloof. One whose
                    integrity was unimpeached and who was known far beyond the limits of his state as a skillful
                    prosecutor and defense attorney should escape the singular appellation of nonentity. These facts and
                    more are revealed by Father Sievers as he exhumes this Hoosier statesman from his traditional and
                    rather ignominious historical tomb.
            The fact that we see possibly too little of Harrison's non-public life, and the fact that we
                    are never quite certain why Senator Morton's shadow engulfed Harrison's political
                    aspirations for twelve years may disturb some readers. The chapter, "The Harrison
                    Horror," concerned with a body snatching episode in 
                        Ohio
                    , though a part of the Harrison story, may appear to be somewhat extraneous. It might
                    also be suspected that the author is captivated by his subject and fails to record
                    Harrison's unfavorable features, which are popularly expected in any person engaged in a
                    public career-but possibly there were none.
            The revelations in the second volume cause one to suspect that the final volume, may it not be too
                    long in creation, will prove that Harrison's administration was notable for more than just
                    the wiring of the executive mansion for electricity.
            
               Indiana State Teachers College Donald Scheick
         
         
         
            
               Robert Rogers of the Rangers. By John R. Cuneo. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1959. Pp. xii, 308. Illustrations, mps, appendix, sources and notes,
                    index. $6.00.)
            With a barrister's skill, lawyer-author Cuneo has presented a convincing defense of the
                    famed Indian fighter, Robert Rogers. He has traced the life of this colorful, yet tragic, figure
                    from his humble beginnings in 1730 as the fourth son of a 
                        New Hampshire
                     squatter to his place in the sun when, not yet thirty, he was "the
                    army's most famous colonial fighter, to whom all society was open" (p. 143). The
                    account continues through Rogers' successive disappointments—flights from
                    creditors, court-martial, debtors' prisons, disease and intemperance—until he
                    died in 1795, broken in mind and body. The hazards of his uncivilized frontier world had proved as
                    nothing compared to the dangers and pitfalls of the civilized world which he was ill fitted to
                    combat.
            A poor frontier farmer tempted into a counterfeiting scheme, Rogers was saved by the outbreak of the
                    French and Indian War wherein he rose to a position of eminence as commander of a "Company
                    of Rangers." Numerous feats of daring in the 
                        Crown Point
                    -Ticonderoga area won for him a reputation both in America and abroad. Yet every
                    accomplishment won also an increasing degree of professional jealousy from General Thomas Gage. The
                    fact that Amherst ignored Gage's attempts to discredit both Rogers and the Rangers only
                    intensified Gage's hostility.
            After Gage became commander of the British forces in America, he was in a position to vent his spleen
                    and succeeded in impeaching Rogers for treason while the latter served as commandant of the
                    Michilimackinac post. Cuneo devotes several interesting pages to the court case, as one might
                    expect, and, according to his evidence, anything but a complete acquittal would have permanently
                    stained the integrity of British courts-martial. Both Rogers' defense and Cuneo's
                    reporting make dramatic reading.
            The interbellum years found Rogers in and out of debtors' prisons, and at the outbreak of
                    the Revolutionary War he offered his services to 
                        Washington
                    . Since he was a retired British major, he was suspect in 
                        Washington
                    's eyes, however; and after being arrested by the patriots and threatened with
                    imprisonment, he escaped to the British and offered his services to them. He formed another Ranger
                    unit and for a brief period terrorized the settlements of 
                        Connecticut
                     until his battalion was taken over by the British Regulars. For all practical purposes
                    the story ends here, for the author condenses the remainder of Rogers' life into only a few
                    pages since there is a paucity of source material for after this time. It apparently is just as
                    well, for Rogers' career from this point on, judging from what evidence is available, was a
                    tragedy of degradation, divorce, drunkenness, and debt.
            The author freely consults Rogers' own books, A Concise Account of North
                        America and Journals, as well as an impressive list of source materials from depositories
                    in this country, 
                        Canada
                    , and Great Britain. Yet, it is lamentable that space limitations did not permit more
                    specific  references to sources than the general lists of
                    materials at the end of the volume. Cuneo indicates that those wishing to pursue the topic further
                    can find detailed notes on deposit at the New-York Historical Society and at the Clements Library,
                    University of 
                        Michigan
                    .
            Students of Rogers' period will welcome Cuneo's volume. It is a competent work that
                    does much to present a clear and concise account of this exciting partisan leader whose life has
                    been much clouded by folklore, fancy, and fiction. Cuneo writes well—his terse, pithy
                    style makes the exposition as dynamic as his subject matter.
            
               Indiana University Philip M. Crane
         
         
            
               Bluegrass Craftsman: Being the Reminiscences of Ebenezer Hiram Stedman, Papermaker,
                        1808-1885. Edited by Frances L. S. Dugan and Jacqueline P. Bull. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1959. Pp. xxi, 226. Frontispiece, appendix, index. $5.00.)
            Editors Bull and Dugan, head archivist and associate archivist, respectively, at the University of 
                        Kentucky
                    , present the memoirs of Ebenezer Hiram Stedman in the form of letters written to his
                    daughter. The original letters are in the Dard Hunter Paper Museum at the Institute of Paper
                    Chemistry, 
                        Appleton
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Stedman's brief account of the papermaking industry in 
                        Kentucky
                    , which is also included in this book, is at the University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Library.
            The Stedman family came to 
                        Kentucky
                     shortly after the War of 1812, and Ebenezer's father became the foreman of a
                    paper mill in 
                        Lexington
                    . Observation of his father's work and his own job as a "lay
                    boy" helped to prepare Ebenezer for his own entry into papermaking. He and his brother Sam
                    took over a broken-down mill in 
                  Franklin County, Kentucky
               , in 1833 and made a thriving business
                    out of it. In 1847 the mill was destroyed by fire, but it was rebuilt and by 1850 the enterprise was
                    valued at more than $50,000. Subsequent floods and fires damaged the mill repeatedly, but
                    each time it was repaired or rebuilt and for a time furnished all the paper used by the state
                    printers and most of the newsprint used by 
                        Frankfort
                     newspapers. The Civil War bankrupted the business, and in 1875 the DuPonts purchased
                    the mill machinery.
            The reader will be fascinated by Stedman's lively and colorful description of his business
                    and also of society in the Bluegrass region. He pens interesting character sketches of his
                    acquaintances, describes details of the papermaking industry, bills of fare of that day, the life of
                    rivermen, squirrel migrations, and many other aspects of frontier life. Although tinged with
                    nostalgia and containing some errors of fact, Stedman's account shows his remarkable
                    ability to recall minute details (he began writing in 1878). The editors prove that his memory is
                    surprisingly good. For an uneducated man, the old papermaker had a large vocabulary and an engaging
                    style of writing. His spelling is poor, but at least phonetic. One wonders, however, why he stumbles
                    over such words as "her" and "see," yet correctly spells others
                    like "consanguinity" and "anomalous."
            
            The editors deserve much praise for their efforts. Often in works of this kind the reader is baffled
                    by an imposing array of footnotes; such is not the case here. Perhaps a few more might have been in
                    order, such as a note on Cassius Clay (p. 189) and one to clarify lines five and six on page 152. It
                    was not the "Alien and Sedition Law" under which Matthew Lyon was jailed, but the
                    Sedition Act (p. xvi). The introduction is quite helpful, as is the index. The book is valuable for
                    an understanding of both early papermaking and frontier society.
            
               
                  
                            Vincennes
                         University Chelsea L. Lawlis
         
         
            "Sunset" Cox: Irrepressible Democrat. By David Lindsey. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, 1959. Pp. xx, 323. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $5.00.)
            David Lindsey has written a lively and significant life of Samuel Sullivan Cox, better known as
                    "Sunset" Cox, whose political career spanned most of the latter half of the
                    nineteenth century. As a Democrat, Cox was elected to the 
                        United States
                     House of Representatives from the 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , district in
                    1856 and served continuously from 1857 until 1865. Gerrymandered out of his position by a hostile
                    Republican legislature in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1865, Cox moved to 
                        New York City
                    , was again elected to the House of Representatives in 1868, and served regularly with
                    but two brief breaks until his death in 1889. Although a candidate for the position of speaker on
                    several occasions, Cox never received this honor, but he did serve competently as speaker pro tem at
                    various times and missed by a hair being chosen permanent speaker in 1876.
            Cox was in Congress during the political crisis of the 1850's, the Civil War itself, the
                    political battles of Reconstruction, and the political drift of the Gilded Age. He witnessed the
                    spectacular rise of the Republican party to a quarter century of power. At the same time he was a
                    part of the split in his own party with its subsequent eclipse. But he was also a part of the slow
                    revival and recovery of the Democratic party from the lean years of the war and Reconstruction, and
                    he was on hand when the Democrats regained control of the White House and Congress in the
                    mid-eighties.
            It is in this political milieu that Cox had three decades of active leadership. If he is classifiable
                    at all, says Professor Lindsey, "he may perhaps be best described as a conservative in the
                    Jeffersonian tradition. His was a belief in a simple, modest, frugal federal government of strictly
                    limited powers, as defined in the Constitution, coupled with respect for states rights and local
                    government where the decisions could be made by the people most directly affected" (p.
                    259). While Professor Lindsey feels that it is difficult to measure Cox's influence upon
                    the course of American politics from the 1850's to the 1880's, he does conclude
                    that the course of American public affairs might have moved along different lines had Cox not lived
                    during the period. He did attempt to prevent secession. Yet despite his compromise efforts, when the
                    break in the Union came, he supported the Lincoln administration 
                    in its military efforts even though he deplored the use of armed force to pull the Union together
                    again. Yet he wanted no more of war than to restore the Uniog, and thus he opposed efforts at change
                    such as the emancipation of slaves and the raising of the tariff. These, he argued, were measures of
                    revolution not of restoration. But when Cox became convinced that emancipation was not an obstacle
                    to the restoration of the Union, he moved to support it, although in the end he did vote against the
                    Thirteenth Amendment. He opposed Radical Reconstruction, the disabilities imposed upon the
                    Confederates, the Force Bills of 1870-1871, Greenbacks, railroad land grants, and a high tariff. He
                    was a champion of a low-tariff policy, resumption, better wages and working conditions for letter
                    carriers, and of a Lifesaving Service.
            Grover Cleveland spoke of Cox's "honorable career" and 'useful
                    life"; John Hay said about Cox that "few men have ever lived more universally
                    loved and admired; few have ever died more sincerely mourned" (p. 256); and William M.
                    Evarts stated that "through thirty years among the eminent men of the Democratic party in
                    the state of 
                        New York
                    ," there had been "no one that can be fairly considered as having been
                    more engaged in public affairs than Mr. Cox" (p. 268). Thus Cox deserved a scholarly
                    biography, and Professor Lindsey has provided us with one. It is a first-class book, scholarly in
                    every respect and thoroughly documented, and Professor Lindsey is to be commended for his excellent
                    performance here. The research is sound and is based upon extensive work among Cox's own
                    writings and speeches and upon a variety of manuscripts, government documents, party documents,
                    newspapers and periodicals, and books, articles, and unpublished dissertations. Professor
                    Lindsey's book makes two contributions: one to the field of political biography, and
                    another to the general field of American politics from the 1850's until the late
                    1880's. It will be useful, informative, and entertaining to students of American politics
                    of the latter half of the nineteenth century.
            
               University of Notre Dame Vincent P. De Santis
         
         
            
               The Making of an American Community: A Case Study of Democracy in a Frontier County.
                        By Merle Curti et at. (
                        Stanford
                    , Calif.: 
                        Stanford
                     University Press, 1959. Pp. vii, 483. Tables, maps, appendices, bibliographical notes,
                    index. $8.50.)
            This study of a 
                        Wisconsin county
                     is indirectly an outgrowth of the work of Frederick Jackson Turner. In his day,
                    numerous historical forces were studied by him, and where possible their presence or influence was
                    indicated on maps, perhaps to increase the objectivity of his work. He dealt extensively with census
                    statistics, particularly of population and agriculture. At various times he expressed his conviction
                    that the frontier exerted a democratic influence upon the people living there.
            One of Turner's students, Merle Curti, Frederick Jackson Turner Professor of History at the
                    University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , directed this study and became the principal author of the volume. He consulted the
                         usual categories of source materials as well as the
                    manuscript records of the census. Curti sought to increase the objectivity of this history by
                    applying the latest machine methods to his investigation. By employing punch cards and business
                    machines, he was able to study the entire population of 
                        Trempealeau County
                    . This procedure is not only more scientific than other means, but it gives to his
                    conclusion a wider base of support. But this study is not merely concerned with demonstrating new
                    methods of handling data; it is also intended to test Curti's interpretation of
                    Turner's theory, particularly in relation to the democratic influence of the frontier.
            The conclusions are of particular interest. For certain questions and problems, the combination of
                    long-accepted procedure with certain quantitative methods used in the social sciences (these methods
                    are described in Appendix 1) is feasible and useful. A higher degree of objectivity was attained.
            A large turnover of settlers was found, and in the fluid society that resulted, immigrant groups as
                    well as native Americans made excellent economic adjustments. Immigrants increasingly entered
                    business and the professions, intermarried with Americans, participated in politics, and became
                    landowners. A majority of the "farmers" without farms did have land, and even farm
                    laborers as a group were by no means landless. "Practically all new settlers who remained
                    in the county made striking advance…. The rich became somewhat richer, the poor became a
                    good deal less poor…. All but one of the young men who had started as farm laborers in
                    1860 were farm owners in 1880" (p. 445). Some of these results may have been the outcome of
                    a postwar boom, but the authors believe that the stimulus and opportunity were largely provided by
                    frontier conditions.
            "Frontier experiences in 
                        Trempealeau
                     promoted self-confidence, optimism, resourcefulness, perseverance, … as well
                    as individual initiative and sense of responsibility…. Decisions were made, and remade,
                    in accordance with the democratic principle of majority rule and consideration of minority
                    interests" (p. 447). For a time disparity in educational opportunity existed, but with
                    later developments it was lessened. "Turner's poetical vision of free land and of
                    relatively equal opportunity was for a great many people being realized in 
                        Trempealeau County
                    . The story of the making of this American community is a story of progress toward
                    democracy" (p. 448).
            Little objection can be offered to the methods of procedure, the industry of the researchers, and the
                    conclusions of Curti's volume. Two decisions in the research could not be highly objective,
                    and yet they may have influenced in some degree the final conclusions. The reader may ask why 
                        Trempealeau County
                     was chosen and not be entirely satisfied with the authors' answer, even though
                    no very satisfactory reason occurs for not choosing it. Only the study of other counties will reveal
                    the wisdom of the choice. The reader may also question the use of eleven contiguous townships in the
                    area between Montpelier and 
                  Burlington, Vermont
               , as a "control area"
                    for purposes of comparison. Why 
                        Vermont
                    , particularly in view of its mountainous topography? Why not an industrial area?
            
            Within its particular field this study is unique, and it is a valuable and significant study in its
                    larger implications as well. The critics of Turner's interpretation have not produced a
                    critique having such solid foundations. It is interesting to note that a midwestern university
                    furnished graduate student assistants and a grant to further the research.
            
               Indiana University John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               The American Heritage Book of the Pioneer Spirit. By the editors of American
                    Heritage, Richard M. Ketchum et al. (
                        New York
                    : American Heritage Publishing Co., Inc., 1959. Pp. 394. Numerous illustrations, index.
                    $12.95; deluxe edition, $14.95.)
            This is the third in a series of elaborate pictorial history books to be published by the American
                    Heritage Publishing Company, and is, in the reviewer's mind, the most interesting of the
                    three. (American Heritage Book of Great Historic Places was published in 1957 and American Heritage Book of the Revolution in 1958.)
            The "Pioneer Spirit" is broadly construed; it includes much more than the conquest
                    of the continent by means of the rifle, axe, and plow. The book contains sections on
                    "Foot-holds of the Forest," "Adventures in Independence,"
                    "Manifest Destiny," "A Tinkering People" (inventions), and
                    "The Strenuous Life," as well as ten others. There are subsections on clipper
                    ships, utopian schemes, buffaloes, cowboys, reformers, dime novels, the factory system, and many
                    other subjects. The introduction and chapter prologues are written by Allan Nevins, and the text
                    which accompanies the pictures has been written by a number of journalist-historians.
            From the early pages on "Breaking the Ocean Barrier" to the building of the Panama
                    Canal and the coming of the airplane the reader is confronted by almost 500 pictures, 160 of them in
                    full color and many of them double-page. In the early sections there are reproductions of rare maps;
                    the reader would have to visit numerous libraries to see these in the original. One naturally
                    expects reproductions of the paintings of such well-known artists as Bodmer, Bingham, Miller, and
                    Remington, but one is hardly prepared for the gallery of portraits. The reviewer, for instance,
                    confronted face to face for the first time historical acquaintances of fifty years standing; he had
                    never realized how handsome a man was General John Forbes nor how tremendous a piece of humanity was
                    Johan Printz. Distribution of pictures is good although the more spectacular Far West seems to be
                    somewhat favored over the less spectacular but no less important frontier development east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            The accompanying text is sprightly and in general historically accurate, though there are some
                    serious lapses. For example on the Constitution of 1787 the text states that a national government
                    was organized (p. 112); there is no mention whatever of the fact that a dual government was
                    established with a division of powers between the states and the general government. We also learn
                    that "the Continental Congress by a momentous clause [in the Northwest  Ordinance of 1787] forever debarred slavery from the
                    Northwest" (p. 107), and that "
                        New Hampshire
                    's Senator Daniel Webster" made the famous 7th of March Speech in 1850
                    (p. 186).
            There is a special folio (sixteen pages) of quotations which illustrate the spirit of "The
                    Promised Land." These quotations extend in time from Plato to Carl Sandburg, and, though
                    each reader who is familiar with our history will probably think he could have selected some better
                    ones, most of them are appropriate and inspiring.
            This book should be made available in every schoolroom in the 
                        United States
                     from the first grade through high school. Any pupil who could not—if not
                    forced to do so-find something in it to stimulate his curiosity and interest in his country and the
                    political and economic system under which it developed would not be worth wasting time on.
            
               The Pioneer Spirit is a large book, a beautiful book, and an expensive book to
                    make. It illustrates the fact that history books can be made attractive, and when so made sell
                    enough copies to cover the costs.
            
               Indiana University R. Carlyle Buley
         
         
            
               The Papers of John C. Calhoun. Volume I, 1801-1817. Edited by Robert L.
                    Meriwether. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        South Carolina
                     Press, for the South Caroliniana Society, 1959. Pp. xlii, 469. Frontispiece, calendar,
                    genealogical table, bibliography, index. $10.00.)
            The publication of comprehensive editions of prominent Americans' papers during the past
                    thirty years has been a heartening historiographical development. Several projects of the
                    1950'8, including the 
                  Franklin, Hamilton, Madison, Clay
               , and Calhoun papers, were inspired in part by
                    counsel and encouragement of the National Historical Publications Commission, directed by Dr. Philip
                    M. Hamer. Sundry groups and persons—advisory and publications committees, the 
                        South Carolina
                     Archives Commission, the South Caroliniana Society, libraries, and
                    historians—contributed to the Calhoun project, but the major responsibility for
                    originating the proposed fifteen volumes of the South Carolinian's papers must be credited
                    to Robert L. Meriwether. He planned the entire work to serve a twofold purpose: to reproduce in
                    printed form Calhoun's most significant speeches, reports, and letters; and to append to
                    each volume a calendar of unpublished papers as a supplementary guide to the great collection of
                    Calhoun holdings in the South Caroliniana Library. Unfortunately, Dr. Meriwether died when Volume I
                    reached galley proof, but a "primary achievement" had already been attained. He
                    had assembled and classified all of Calhoun's "known extant words,"
                    whether in manuscript, microfilm, or photostat, an accomplishment that will promote the publication
                    of succeeding volumes under other editorship.
            Editorial procedure emulates the high standard maintained by similar projects in recent years. Each
                    letter, report, and speech is followed by a not—often a page or two in length-that puts
                    it in perspective with events and persons associated with it. These scholarly discussions represent
                    painstaking research and collation of different  texts; and they
                    indicate how far editorial responsibilities have advanced since the early years of the century. Even
                    more than the editor's introduction, the notes provide an understanding of Calhoun and his
                    writings. Footnotes identify significant persons and items that appear in the text.
            No one can understand completely either the nationalism or the sectionalism of the nineteenth
                    century's first half without a clear conception of Calhoun's dynamic mind and
                    restless energy. His Olympian stature in Congress is revealed in his chairmanship of the Foreign
                    Relations and Uniform Currency committees, in his sponsorship of forward-looking measures and forces
                    that personified America, and in his successful forensic encounters with John Randolph and
                    northeastern Federalists. In the years covered by the first volume of his Papers, he was a bold and
                    resourceful representative of the spirit that made Americans of 1900 characterize the past hundred
                    years as the "wonderful century."
            The portrait of the South Carolinian that emerges from this volume resembles closely the nationalist
                    pictured in Charles M. Wiltse's monumental biography. The speeches, reports, and letters
                    from Calhoun's six years in the lower house-85 per cent of the pages-contain both
                    confirming and supplementary evidence that reveals the ardent nationalism of a war hawk who gave
                    loyal support to an administration in which he had little confidence, who staunchly advocated war
                    with 
                        England
                     for endeavoring to destroy American trade through violation of neutral rights and
                    impressment, who favored an aggressive campaign against 
                        Canada
                    , and who battled unceasingly for support in men and money. Calhoun's advocacy
                    of a national bank, a protective tariff, and internal improvements in postwar years is already well
                    known; the Papers provide tangible evidence of his commanding position in the House and his
                    enthusiastic confidence in the future of the nation under a Constitution that should be broadly
                    construed. His support of the tariff yielded such phraseology as "the liberty and the union
                    of this country were inseparably united" fifteen years before Daniel Webster combined the
                    three oft-quoted words against nullifiers of the early 1830's.
            The University of 
                        South Carolina
                     Press should be commended for the attractive and substantial appearance of the volume,
                    a format worthy of Calhoun's stature.
            
               University of Southampton 
                            England
                        
                Wendell Holmes Stephenson
         
         
            
               Travels in the Old South: A Bibliography. Volume III, The Ante
                        Bellum South, 1825-1860: Cotton, Slavery, and Conflict. Edited by Thomas D. Clark. The American Exploration and Travel Series, Number 19. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1969. Pp. xviii, 406. Illustrations, index. $10.00.)
            This volume of the American Exploration and Travel Series is the third edited by
                    Professor Thomas Clark, of the University of 
                        Kentucky
                    . With his earlier volumes, The Formative Years, 1527-1785,  and The Expanding South, 1750-1835, and the early
                    works of Dr. E. Merton Coulter, those interested in southern history now have available a critical
                    bibliography of southern travel accounts covering almost four centuries.
            Of these works the present volume is concerned with what may be the most important period of full
                    southern growth—both geographic and institutional. Certainly the 506 books reviewed in
                    this volume will interest students of southern and local history, by area, and students of Jackson
                    or the ante-bellum South, by period. When properly used, this reference tool may serve in more
                    specialized fields such as immigration or commercial history or in specific topics of social
                    history. In many respects the same volume will be a gold mine for scholars patient enough to be
                    interested in arguments evaluating and criticizing slavery.
            This volume's organization is similar to that of the two earlier volumes edited by Professor
                    Clark and has many of the same conveniences and disadvantages. The book encompasses bibliographies
                    for four periods: "Cotton South, 1826-1835," by James W. Patton; "Decade
                    of Nationalism, 1836-1845," by Charles Sydnor; "Slavery South at Noontide,
                    1846-1852," by Robert G. Lunde; and "South in Sectional Crisis,
                    1852-1860," by F. Garvin Davenport. The first three sections are uniform in presentation.
                    Authors and titles are listed alphabetically in their respective chronological classifications, and
                    each volume is accompanied by a description of its format, publication dates, later editions, and
                    copy location. This information is followed by critical abstracts which vary in length according to
                    the value of the book and its relevance to travel within the South. The authors are generous to
                    include titles of no value as a warning for researchers. The fourth section has organization similar
                    to that of the first three, but Professor Davenport makes greater use of comparison in his
                    presentation. Each of his reviews ends with the sometimes repetitious listing of titles covering the
                    same period or area as the work reviewed and, in addition, titles giving contrasting views are
                    included. This sort of listing has been employed since the period is cluttered by the slavery issue
                    and consequently by less rewarding and less objective travel accounts than are available for other
                    periods.
            As in the first volumes the authors warn users of the bibliographies about the obvious facts that not
                    all titles are included, about the limited contact of some travelers within the South, or about
                    their preconceived prejudices. As before, the English compose the largest number of foreign
                    travelers who left accounts, but in this period the German works are generally praised as the most
                    accurate and objective narratives. The frequency of references to 
                        Texas
                     may surprise some students of southern history, particularly those holding the 
                        Mississippi
                     as their regional western boundary.
            Readers should realize that index citations are for title entries, not pages, and that the index is
                    absolute in neither accuracy nor completeness. For best use of this valuable reference tool, and for
                    some enjoyable impressions of the Old South, the entire bibliography should be scanned. One should
                    not overlook valuable evaluations or citations connected with obscure authors or those not indicated
                    by titles.
            
               Lamar State College of Technology Andrew Johnson
         
         
         
            
               Clash of Cavalry: The Battle of Brandy Station, June 9, 1863. By Fairfax Downey. (
                        New York
                    : David McKay Co., Inc., 1959. Pp. xv, 238. Illustrations, maps, appendices, notes,
                    bibliography, indices. $4.96.)
            
               Gardner's Photographic Sketch Book of the Civil War. Reproduction. By
                    Alexander Gardner. Introduction by E. F. Bleiler. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Dover
                     Publications, Inc., 1959. No pagination. Numerous illustrations, index.
                    $6.00.)
            On the morning of June 9, 1863, the Union cavalry corps under Brigadier General Alfred Pleasonton
                    crossed the Rappahannock River on a reconnaissance in force and surprised the
                    Confederate cavalry under Major General J. E. B. Stuart at Brandy Station, 
                        Virginia
                    . The fighting that resulted was the zenith of American cavalry action.
            In Clash of Cavalry, Fairfax Downey ranges from the topic of the feelings of a
                    northern trooper before the battle to a vivid description of the attacks of the Union divisions.
                    Clearly described are the countermoves of the Confederates, the failure of Colonel Duffie's
                    Union division to reach Brandy Station, and finally the confused and bitter fighting for
                        Fleetwood Hill—the key spot of the battle.
            
               Clash of Cavalry is more than an account of the strategy and tactics of a cavalry
                    engagement. The book includes a study of the training and equipment of the cavalryman and discusses
                    the use of cavalry forces in the Civil War. There is also a comparison of Confederate and Union
                    cavalry that explains the superiority of the southern cavalry during the first years of the war.
                    Pictures of some of the important cavalry leaders, short evaluations of their training and
                    abilities, plus side lights about the manual on the saber, and poems and songs of the cavalry troops
                    give background to the battle.
            Some criticisms can be noted. The battle maps are good, but clearer reproductions would be more
                    helpful. A more detailed explanation of Colonel Duffie's failure to press home his attack
                    along the Stevensburg road would have been valuable. Clash of Cavalry should be
                    interesting, however, for both the student and general reader. It is an exciting and vividly told
                    story of an important Civil War cavalry battle.
            Another vividly told story of the Civil War appears in Gardner's Photographic
                        Sketch Book. Alexander Gardner (1821-1882) was a Scotsman whom Mathew Brady, the famous
                    Civil War photographer, brought to America in 1856. By 1858 Gardner was head of Brady's 
                        Washington
                     "gallery," and there he made his famous studies of Lincoln and other
                    contemporary leaders. When the Civil War broke out, Gardner followed the armies with a horse-drawn
                    darkroom and made many historic photographs of the conflict, and in 1863 he formed his own
                    photographic organization in 
                        Washington
                    .
            In 1866, Gardner published Gardner's Photographic Sketch Book of the War.
                    This publication was in two volumes and contained one hundred photographs taken by Gardner and
                    members of his organization. A text, probably written by Gardner, accompanied each photograph. Few
                    copies of the 1866 edition were sold, and in recent years this collection of Civil War photographs
                    has become a collector's item.
            
            The present volume is a repoduction of the original two volumes in their entirety, and was made
                    possible by the cooperation of the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Library, which loaned its copy of the original edition for reproduction. Reproduced on
                    quality paper and in the same size as in the original, the photographs show unusual crispness and
                    clarity of detail. Though partisan and including some editorial comments that would be questioned by
                    Civil War students of today, the text contributes to the understanding of each photograph. An index
                    to both the text and photographs plus an introduction by E. F. Bleiler that provides the reader with
                    general background on the collection and an explanation of the photographic processes at the time of
                    the Civil War, are useful additions to the present volume. Gardner's
                        Photographic Sketch Book of the Civil War should be an interesting and delightful addition to
                        the library of the Civil War buff.
            
               
                  
                            Mishawaka
                         High School Ward Baker
         
         
            
               Republicans Face the Southern Question: The New Departure Years, 1877-1897. By
                    Vincent P. De Santis. The Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and Political
                        Science, Series LXXVII (1959), Number 1. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins Press, 1959. Pp. 275. Tables, index. Paperbound, $4.00;
                    cloth, $5.00.)
            The "Southern Question" has plagued the American public and the American politician
                    for over a century. Before 1860 it revolved around the "sinfulness" of the
                    slavocracy; during Reconstruction it included the controversies relating to the Negro, the Civil
                    War, and military occupation of the South; after 1880, it involved treatment of the Negro, the
                    one-party system, and the possible economic exploitation of the South. The latter three problems are
                    with the country today.
            In Republicans Face the Southern Question Dr. Vincent De Santis, of Notre Dame
                    University, neglects the broad implications of his title and examines only the attempts of the
                    Republicans to regain their position in the South after 187'7. Primarily, the volume is
                    even narrower in scope; it is the story of the efforts of four Republican presidents, Hayes,
                    Garfield, Arthur, and Harrison, to garner votes for their party in the former Confederate states. De
                    Santis believes that the Republican party has consistently worked to break up the Democratic
                    South" and states that "Republican lack of success in the South has not been from
                    a lack of effort" (p. 12). But as his volume itself indicates, few Republicans outside the
                    White House ever gave much attention to the South; fewer still spent campaign money there. And the
                    presidents, a cynic might charge, were interested in the area only because of its votes in the
                    nominating conventions.
            But whatever their reasons, various presidents did try to rebuild the Republican party in the South.
                    Hayes, after carrying only three southern states, and those probably because fellow Republicans were
                    counting the ballots, tried conciliation. He attempted to build a "conservative"
                    party by awarding patronage to former Whigs, then uneasy Bourbon Democrats, abandoning the policy of
                    military occupation, and,  to the disgust of many of the party
                    faithful, leaving the Negro in the lurch. In return he got nothing, for Southern Democrats could see
                    no good reason to come over to his side.
            Garfield and Arthur almost completely dropped Hayes's strategy. They decided to build the
                    party around the various independent movements springing up in the South, movements led by
                    dissatisfied politicians who for diverse reasons were anxious to bring Bourbon domination to an end.
                    By recognizing and giving the patronage to these leaders and ordering the Southern Republicans to
                    cooperate with them, Garfield and Arthur hoped to add Republican votes in Congress and, possibly, in
                    the electoral college. In the end the Garfield-Arthur program with the Independents collapsed,
                    leaving a residual taste of bitterness in the mouths of many forgotten southern Negro Republicans.
            From 1888 to 1892 Republican efforts to redeem the South centered around a quasi-return to
                    Reconstruction. Harrison's program called for strong backing for Senator Henry C.
                    Lodge's "Force Bill," which would allow federal supervision of local
                    elections. Harrison felt that if only the Republicans could get a fair count in the South they could
                    win some Congressional seats. But despite administrative pressure, many Republican senators were
                    uninterested and the bill died in the Senate. By 1896, in despair, the Republicans had returned to
                    the Garfield-Arthur policy of fusion with Independents, this time the Populists. Nothing came of
                    their efforts-the two parties could never agree on a common policy.
            Dr. De Santis recounts the story of these various Republican attempts to win the South with great
                    skill. Although there is little here that is new, it is the first time this information has been put
                    together into a coherent whole, The book is attractive (although the proofreading is poor) and is a
                    credit to the Johns Hopkins Press.
            
               University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                Stephen E. Ambrose
         
         
            
               The World War and American Isolation, 1914-1917. By Ernest R. May. 
                  
                            Harvard
                         Historical Studies, Volume LXXI. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1959. Pp. viii, 482. Bibliographical essay, index. $7.50.)
            There have been, if sweeping generalizations are permitted, two periods when the 
                        United States
                     has been preoccupied with foreign relations. During its earliest years the new country
                    successfully wrested its course away from the European balance of power in order to promote its own
                    best interests. During its latest history it has voluntarily reentered a somewhat different balance
                    of power for the same reason. It was the ill fortune of the American people and their president,
                    1914-1917, to have to make a decision as to their role with regard to a world conflagration before
                    thinking about the country's new position had crystallized. Therefore, they did not have a
                    clearly defined standard with which to assess the relation of the 
                        United States
                     to the war.
            
            Consequently, interpretations of the American decision for belligerency have varied. Initial judgment
                    tended to stress ideological motives. Beginning in the late twenties, cynicism attributed the
                    decision to propaganda and selfish economic interests. A second World War brought a further
                    reassessment that emphasized the pursuit of national interest by way of the Atlantic System and
                    balance of power alignments. What, then, the question naturally arises, can Dr. May's study
                    add to our understanding of this ebullient period?
            For one thing, May has utilized the perspective of 1959 to present a thoughtful synthesis of the
                    topic. He has given much more than usual attention to policy conflicts in the British and German
                    capitals that impinged upon American neutrality. His careful recounting of the formulation of German
                    policy and of Bethmann Hollweg's unheeded warning to his German colleagues constitutes
                    perhaps the most valuable contribution of his study.
            With respect to the American side of the Atlantic, the author traces carefully the evolution of
                    Wilson's attitude toward the war. The resulting judgment is favorable to the President.
                    Close analysis "cannot find the point at which he might have turned back or taken another
                    road" (p. vii). Moreover, according to May, public opinion approved all the major steps
                    along that road.
            
               State University of South Dakota Cedric Cummins
         
         
            
               The Economic Mind in American Civilization. Volumes Four and Five, 1918-1933. By
                    Joseph Dorfman. (
                        New York
                    : The Viking Press, 1959. Vol. IV: Pp. xxxiv, 398. Vol. V: Pp. xxxix-lxxxviii, 401-776.
                    Bibliographic notes, index. $12.50 per set.)
            In these two volumes the author concludes his comprehensive history of American economic thought from
                    the colonial beginnings to the year 1933. Unlike the earlier volumes, these treat a shorter period
                    of time, but one of much significance during which the nation reconverted to a peacetime economy
                    after World War I, experienced the giddy sensations of the booming twenties, and plunged downward
                    into the suffering and despair of the worst depression in its history. Professor Dorfman performs
                    the task with his customary thoroughness and with such success that the reader will regret that he
                    has decided not to go beyond 1933 for fear of losing historical perspective.
            Although there is quite naturally a strong emphasis upon that class of persons known as
                    "professional economists," the scope of the study is broad enough to include the
                    economic ideas and attitudes of politicians, social reformers, business and labor leaders,
                    journalists, and, where possible, the common man. Consequently, the volumes will interest many
                    people outside the economists' ranks, certainly historians, who, by the way, receive some
                    attention in connection with the interdisciplinary currents of the years from 1918 to 1933. In order
                    to accomplish his large objective, the author has necessarily consulted a great variety of
                    sources—manuscript collections, archives, public documents, newspapers, and periodicals.
                    Out of these materials are written  chapters on schools of
                    thought, individual theorists, and the major problems of the era. Frank W. Taussig, John R. Commons,
                    Richard T. Ely, together with rising lights like Rexford Tugwell and Paul Douglas, are a few of the
                    many figures who come forward. An inherent organizational difficulty in the volumes is the
                    compartmentation of contents, which too often resemble a biographical dictionary and make for slow
                    reading by the non-specialist.
            During the twenties, says Professor Dorfman, economists shared the prevailing optimism that the
                    prosperity and growth of the 
                        United States
                     would continue indefinitely. Giving little attention to the uninviting subject of
                    business cycles, they searched for measures to accelerate the rate of expansion or to distribute
                    more equitably its fruits. Very few "experts" anticipated an imminent depression,
                    or at least one of such magnitude as befell the land. Indeed, after the stock market crash of
                    October, 1929, the belief was widespread that there would not be any detrimental general effects of
                    the sudden halt to wild speculation in securities. Nevertheless, the decade witnessed substantial
                    progress by scholars toward increased economic knowledge and improved techniques of research which
                    were later useful in combating the depression. In fact, major ideas adopted by both the Hoover and
                    Roosevelt administrations had taken shape by 1929: industrial codes of fair practice, minimal labor
                    standards, agricultural crop restriction, and reforms of money, credit, and banking. All these
                    measures owed much to pioneering work in such new fields as labor relations, industrial management,
                    agricultural economics, international trade, governmental policy, and sociological-psychological
                    forces. Older classical economics, propounding universal laws, gave way to new approaches of a
                    pragmatic, behavior-istic, and institutional character. The goal was now not to define an inflexible
                    theory of value but to recognize the infinite number of variables operating within realistic
                    conditions.
            Both in its depth and its breadth this work is most satisfactory. It will be received with the
                    enthusiastic approval that it deserves, and it will remain for a long time an excellent reference in
                    the fields of economics and history.
            
               Indiana University Maurice G. Baxter
         
         
            
               The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the 
                            United States
                        : One Hundredth Anniversary History, 1859-1959. By R. Carlyle Buley. (
                        New York
                    : Appleton-Century-Crofts, Inc., 1959. Pp. xviii, 262. Illustrations. $5.00.)
            Anniversary histories, especially those of commercial ventures, are frequently either monotonous
                    chronicles or biased laudations. As one would expect of him, Professor Buley has avoided both of
                    these errors in the One Hundredth Anniversary History of the Equitable. To say that his narrative is
                    interesting is not to condemn it with faint praise.
            It is doubtless easier to write an interesting story if the characters are interesting people. In
                    this respect the author has full cooperation from the cast he has selected. Certainly the men who
                    founded and  guided the destinies of Equitable have been
                    independent and vigorous specimens of the human race.
            Professor Buley writes in a clear, forceful style, using anecdote and quotation to advantage. Far
                    from being an account of a "soulless" corporation, this book is an intensely human
                    document tracing the evolution of the Equitable Life Assurance Society from its origin one hundred
                    years ago. Only in the final portion, which deals with the contemporary period, does the personal
                    become somewhat subordinate to a description of the magnitude of corporate operations. Perhaps this
                    change in emphasis from the personal to the impersonal is inevitable in dealing with such a vast
                    enterprise.
            In addition to furnishing an account of the Equitable Society, this work throws much light upon life
                    insurance as a social institution. The author deals objectively with such subjects as inter-company
                    competition, relations between the company and investment and commercial banking interests, foreign
                    operations, the insurance "investigations," and government regulations.
            The men who have led the Equitable Society have not been infallible, nor does the author represent
                    them as such. On occasion they have disagreed among themselves and with their competitors. Professor
                    Buley does suggest that they have consistently sought to conduct a business which meets a special
                    need in the social order and that they have done this well. His treatment is convincing, and the
                    thesis is supported by the facts presented.
            The reader cannot escape being impressed by the enormity of the growth of Equitable and the life
                    insurance business as a whole. In the opinion of this reviewer, one of the most significant
                    contributions the author has made is in describing the evolution of the form and content of life
                    insurance contracts. The changing patterns of the sales organization and sales policies are also
                    effectively presented.
            The style of writing is such that this book may be read with equal interest by the insurance
                    fraternity and the general reader. The reviewer assumes that reference notes were omitted because
                    the book is general in character. Historians may regret this omission. In 1926, William Alexander,
                    the secretary of the society, upon the occasion of his retirement after fifty-seven years of service
                    with the organization, stated, "I should like to be here on the Equitable's One
                    Hundredth Birthday when presumably the history of the Equitable's First Century will be
                    written by some competent historian having accurate knowledge of all the facts. Such a story will be
                    as interesting as the history of a great nation, and the record of the achievements of its
                    presidents and others who have aided in its building, will be as interesting as the achievements of
                    the rulers of a nation" (pp. 261-262). If Alexander were here today he would not be
                    disappointed.
            The format of the book is attractive, dignified, and in keeping with the character of Equitable. The
                    text, the typography, and the illustrations, especially the reproductions of cartoons and
                    advertisements, combine to create a distinctive volume.
            
               Davis and Elkins College Evan R. Kek
         
         
         
            
               The Study of Politics: The Present State of American Political Science. By
                    Charles S. Hyneman. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1959. Pp. xi, 232. References, index. $4.50.)
            Professor Charles S. Hyneman, of Indiana University, proposes in this volume to diagnose the present
                    state of American political science and to illumine some of the major issues facing members of the
                    profession. He divides his essay into three parts. He first outlines the problems that most trouble
                    political scientists, e.g.: Do they spend too much time in public affairs and too little at
                    scholarship? Do they try to cover far more ground in their studies than can effectively be embraced
                    by one discipline? Is their work adequately related to the efforts of other disciplines that study
                    social relationships? Second, Hyneman describes the scholarly undertakings of political scientists.
                    These entail description of legal governments, examination of political ideas, development of a
                    scientific literature, and presentation of normative doctrine and proposals for social action.
                    Finally he indentifies the major issues of intellectual conflict among American political
                    scientists, e.g.: Are workers in the field scientific enough in method and purpose? What is the
                    proper place of values in political science? Does study of the "classics" serve
                    any useful purpose for contemporary students?
            It is of course not possible for so brief a survey of so many and and such fundamental problems to do
                    more than indicate the fields of battle and the probable lines of attack and defense. In attaining
                    this goal Professor Hyneman's lucid if at times repetitive book succeeds admirably. It is
                    intended for graduate students, but it is an outline of problems confronting American political
                    science today which can be used profitably by teachers as well.
            Particularly helpful is Professor Hyneman's suggesting in which areas of study American
                    political science has been strong and in which it has been weak. Political scientists, for instance,
                    have done a good job in analyzing voting in public elections, but contributions to an understanding
                    of ideas essential to democracy are meager, indeed. An evaluation of the significance of
                    Christianity for politics, to give one example, has been left almost entirely to the theologians,
                    men like Barth, Maritain, and Niebuhr.
            Although American political scientists have devoted a substantial share of their energies to the
                    national government of the 
                        United States
                    , Hyneman cites shortcomings in this field as well as in studies of state and local
                    government. As a political science teacher just completing his first year as a member of Congress,
                    the reviewer notes with particular interest the author's contention that "very
                    little" of what men and women in the American national government do and how they do it
                    "has as yet been described."
            Apparently, few political scientists have made much effort to make their way through the jungle that
                    is the House of Representatives of the 
                        United States
                    . The task of analyzing the crosscurrents of party, personality, section, economic
                    interest, pressure groups, and constituency, which together play upon the constellation of
                    committees which constitutes the House, is a formidable one which the reviewer now appreciates  more readily than he did while teaching American government.
                    That the task is of great importance and that few persons are working very hard at it seems also to
                    be true. It is however encouraging to see that political scientists are beginning to tiptoe toward
                    the political reality of Congress, to mention only one branch of the federal government, through
                    various participant-observation projects.
            One major explanation of such gaps in our knowledge may simply be lack of imagination on the part of
                    political scientists. Last year, for example, the House battled long weeks through what veteran
                    congressmen described as the most savage legislative struggle in Congress in over ten years, the
                    issue of labor-management reform. It required no great political sophistication to know in January
                    of 1959 that this issue would be coming to a head during the first session of the Eighty-sixth
                    Congress. Some group of political scientists might well have conducted a series of confidential
                    interviews with party leaders in the House and Senate, members of the House Education and Labor
                    Committee, lobbyists of concerned organizations, and knowledgeable newspapermen—the
                    difficulties in making such arrangements notwithstanding.
            It is true that waiting for the smoke of battle to clear away may bring greater objectivity to an
                    investigation. It is also true that battlefield accounts may provide evidence not easily recoverable
                    at a later date or, to point to another hazard, evidence not so readily subject to what the Congressional Record knows as "extension and revision of
                    remarks."
            Perhaps Professor Hyneman's thoughtful book will stimulate the coming crop of American
                    political scientists to a more imaginative and fruitful use of their talents.
            
               Member of Congress Third District, Indiana John Brademas
         
         
            
               The President's Cabinet: An Analysis in the Period From Wilson to
                        Eisenhower. By Richard F. Fenno, Jr. 
                  
                            Harvard
                         Political Studies. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1959. Pp. xii, 327. Notes, index. $5.50.)
            Disregarding the usual historical or legalistic method of writing about the president's
                    cabinet, Professor Fenno declares that the cabinet is a distinct, discreet and describable political
                    institution" (p. 3). Many, although by no means all, of the precedents that Washington
                    initiated in dealing with his cabinet have remained to the present. Naturally new cabinet offices
                    have kept pace with our increasingly complex technological society as well as with our evolving
                    social conscience. Nearly all of the added cabinet departments began ae insignificant administrative
                    agencies.
            Although the president is supreme in relation to the cabinet, the author contends, and logically so,
                    that this group is always being "transformed by other influences in the American political
                    system" (p. 60). For example, in making cabinet appointments the chief executive recognizes
                         such criteria as party, geography, personality,
                    social-economic status, etc. Very definitely, the cabinet represents the pluralism of American
                    culture.
            Presidents have usually had extreme difficulty in establishing and maintaining group coherence among
                    the members of the cabinet. This is understandable when one knows how deeply these advisors of the
                    president are involved in legislative activities, in bureaucracy, in the intricate machinery of
                    political parties, and in the tactics of numerous pressure groups. The author shows how chief
                    executives from Wilson to Eisenhower have sought cabinet coherence and notes that their failures
                    have far outnumbered their success.
            Eisenhower has many more business executives in his cabinet than did Wilson or Franklin D. Roosevelt.
                    A master politician like Roosevelt appointed a cabinet which reflected numerous political group
                    opinions within his own party and at times contained recruits from the opposition. Contrary to
                    popular belief, most presidents have difficulty in finding persons of national reputation to fill
                    cabinet berths. By and large, cabinets have been composed of obscure personnel.
            Until recently the cabinet was a group totally responsible to the president and could not exert any
                    influence on the national scene. Fenno believes that no one has done more to make the cabinet an
                    American political institution than Eisenhower, who named a cabinet secretary and invested him with
                    the power to set up the agenda for each meeting. Poor cooperation from members who do not want their
                    departmental matters discussed by others has marred, however, the results the President hoped to
                    attain. Nevertheless, he has taken a significant step in the right direction.
            With The President's Cabinet, the author has made a scholarly, scientific,
                    and valuable contribution to American political literature.
            
               University of 
                            Florida
                        
                George C. Osborn
         
         
            
               American Research on Russia. Edited by Harold H. Fisher. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1959. Pp. xiv, 240. Notes, index. $5.00.)
            This is a most useful volume for everyone interested in research and instruction in the 
                        United States
                     on Russia. Edited by Professor Harold H. Fisher, one of the pioneers of the study of
                    Russian affairs in this country and for many years director of the Hoover Institute (formerly the
                    Hoover Library for War, Revolution, and Peace) at 
                        Stanford
                     University, it was written at the suggestion of a subcommittee of the Joint Committee
                    on Slavic Studies of the American Council of Learned Societies and the Social Science Research
                    Council. This subcommittee, in its review of research and instruction on Russia in this country,
                    also stimulated the work which led to a companion volume, The Study of Russia in
                        American Education, edited by Professor Cyril E. Black, of 
                        Princeton
                     University, and Professor John M. Thompson, of Indiana University, published early in
                    1960 by the Indiana University Press. These two volumes together describe what is known and what  is being taught—or, alas, not known and not
                    taught—about Russia, and also make a number of pointed suggestions concerning what should
                    be done in the years ahead.
            The essays in American Research on Russia are not bibliographical articles, but
                    critical reviews of American scholarship in particular disciplines—history, economics,
                    political science, philosophy and religion, social relations, science, geography, literature,
                    linguistics, music, and architecture and minor arts—with emphasis on the quality of the
                    published work and, above all, on the kinds of subjects neglected thus far. The essays naturally
                    vary in quality, and one receives the impression that they often follow the tradition of American
                    book reviews in being too cautious and tender in comments upon the books and articles that have been
                    published.
            For this reviewer, among the most interesting and stimulating essays were Philip Mosely's
                    fine survey of "The Growth of Russian Studies" in this country since 1900 and the
                    essays on some of the disciplines in which little effective research has yet been done, especially
                    the one on social relations by Arthur S. Barron, that on science by John Turkevich, and that on
                    music by Robert M. Slusser. These latter essays are particularly clear in suggesting guidelines for
                    future research.
            If American scholars and administrators read this volume with care, the funds which will certainly be
                    invested in research on Russia will be wisely spent. The disciplines in which little research has
                    been done will remain weak unless those with most responsibility in our training programs direct
                    more funds and energy into these neglected fields. Errors in the next few years will lead to an
                    unfortunate lack of balance in Russian studies, a weakness which is already apparent and which will
                    become of especial significance as more and more attention is devoted to Russia at all levels of our
                    educational system.
            
               Indiana University Robert F. Byrnes
         
         
            
               From Wilderness to Empire: A History of 
                            California
                        . Combined and revised edition. By Robert Glass Cleland. Edited and brought
                    down to date by Glenn S. Dumke. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1959. Pp. xii, 445, xvi. Maps, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $6.95.)
            In 1944 Robert Glass Cleland produced From Wilderness to Empire: A History of 
                            California
                        , 1542-1900; three years later appeared his 
                  
                            California
                         in Our Time, 1900-1940. These two volumes have now been revised, edited, and
                    material for the past two decades added by Glenn S. Dumke. The new version is published as a single
                    volume with the title indicated at the heading of this review. Dr. Dumke was a student and ardent
                    admirer of the late Dr. Cleland, and the present volume shows evidence of skill and devoted care in
                    retouching the master's original work. Dumke states that except for occasional passages,
                    the first two chapters, the concluding chapter, and the bibliography the writing is that of Dr.
                    Cleland. The editor's major job has been, therefore, to reduce the two original volumes to
                    one.
            
            Without disparagement of the new product, one wonders why this boiled-down version was considered
                    necessary. Certainly the original two-volume work is not lacking in either solid, worthwhile content
                    or stylistic charm. Actually, the word reduction is not so great as one might at first suspect. The
                    445-page new edition is set in smaller, more compact type than are the 692 pages contained in the
                    original two-volume work. Much of the condensation has taken the form of trimming Spanish regalia in
                    order to make room on the coach for such new riders as Richard M. Nixon, Earl Warren, William F.
                    Knowland, and Goodwin Knight.
            A distinguishing feature of the two-volume work was the author's frank appraisal of
                    personages and events in 
                        California
                    's long and varied history. Fortunately this original flavor is retained in the
                    present version. The final chapter entitled "
                        California
                     at Mid-Century" (Dumke's own) may perhaps be distinguished from the
                    foregoing ones by its tender regard for Republican luminaries.
            The number of illustrations and maps have been reduced from a list of 34 items to 22. Only a couple
                    of contemporary scenes have been included in the new edition. As usual, the general make-up and
                    appearance of this Borzoi book meet the standard set by the publisher.
            
               Indiana University Oscar Osburn Winther
         
         
            
               The National Forests. By Arthur H. Carhart. Introduction by Joseph W. Penfold. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1959. Pp. xiv, 289. Map, illustrations, appendix, index.
                    $4.75.)
            It is not necessary to be a lumberman, an irrigation farmer, or a bird watcher to appreciate the
                    review of American forestry policy presented by Arthur H. Carhart. In fact, one already aware of the
                    role of the national forests in conserving timber, water, or wild life will find the consideration
                    given his special interest in The National Forests too cursory for satisfaction. In the same way,
                    the historian looking for intimate views of the makers of American forest policy will be
                    disappointed, for the glimpses one catches of James Wesley Powell, Gifford Pinchot, and Theodore
                    Roosevelt are too brief. This, in short, is not a book for the specialist unless he seeks to broaden
                    his vision—to see his particular interest in the general context of the forestry
                    movement.
            Qualified for his task by brief employment in the forest service and lifelong interest in and
                    contribution to the conservation movement, the author accepts the responsibility of acquainting the
                    American public with its increasingly valuable property, the national forests. He presents a broad,
                    well-balanced, and multi-dimensional picture of the forests and of the service which maintains them.
                    The primary, legally defined purposes of the national forests—preservation of timber
                    resources and protection of watersheds—receive emphasis. The inception and development of
                    national forestry policy is outlined; the sources of conflict between forestry policy and
                    profit-seeking interests are explained; the administrative organization which enables the United  States Forest Service to perform its diverse functions is
                    sketched. Of course, the outstanding floods and fires are considered along with modern methods of
                    preventing and combating them.
            The individual forests, however, are the principal subject of consideration. To Arthur Carhart each
                    forest has a distinct personality. Deriving its basic traits from geological and climatic
                    conditions, each has its typical plant and animal associations. The author successfully combines
                    description of the forests with description of the work of the service. His technique is to describe
                    a particular forest region and then to present a phase of the work of the service that is especially
                    important therein.
            Well-chosen pictures do much to help the reader visualize the distinctiveness of the individual
                    forests and the work of the forest service. The map of the regions, to which one is constantly
                    referred, would be more useful if it were larger and more detailed. Had it been a fold-out sheet or
                    an end paper it would have been much more readily accessible and immeasurably more useful.
            As the conservation movement receives increasing attention, this work should prove useful although it
                    is not a formal history of the movement and takes note of conservation's origins and
                    development only incidentally. It is a three-dimensional description of a national asset: nature,
                    the land and its products; the service which maintains and develops it; the time perspective through
                    which the land and its products have been developed by the men of the forest service.
            
               Woman's College of the University of 
                            North Carolina
                        
                Betty Carol Clutts
         
         
            
               A Ticket to the Circus: A Pictorial History of the Incredible Ringlings. By
                    Charles Philip Fox. (Seattle, Wash.: Superior Publishing Co., 1959. Pp. 184. Numerous illustrations.
                    $10.00.)
            
               A Ticket to the Circus, by Charles Philip Fox, is a very interesting account of the
                    Great Ringling Circus' birth, reign, and decline. It is nonfiction, but if you are a circus
                    fan, circus enthusiast, or just a middle-aged person with the warm reminiscence of sawdust in your
                    veins, you will enjoy every word of the 184 pages. The author is director of the Circus Museum at
                    Bamboo, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , so authentic newspapers are quoted and rare photographs are reproduced for the reader.
            The volume tells of the deveolpment of the Ringling Circus and of the era that was its heyday.
                    Outstanding sections include a Preface by Hester Ringling Sanford, a chapter by Alice Ringling
                    Coerper, and a chapter entitled "Circus Logistics," which was originally published
                    in Fortune magazine for July, 1947.
            This is the story of seven incredible brothers named Ringling, but it is also a story of the circus
                    itself. It is the story of a family born into poverty, but whose thoroughness of execution, honesty
                    of purpose, and devotion to an ideal resulted in the amassing of immense fortunes. Also, it is the
                    story of the one Ringling sister, Ida Ringling North.  Her sons,
                    John Ringling North and Henry Ringling North, have guided the Ringling Circus since 1937.
            The Ringling Circus has always been a fast-moving performance by the top stars and acts in the world.
                    To accomplish this feat and to give the audience a smooth-running show requires almost split-second
                    timing by the entire company. The book tells of the working menagerie, the ticket seller, the cook
                    house, the circus band, the "spec," the side show, the after show or concert, the
                    elephants and horses, the street parades, the winter quarters, and of all the departments working
                    together in the "back-yard" under the "Big Top." It ends with
                    the chapter, "The Tent is Folded." This chapter leaves the reader with the
                    question of whether the original Ringling Brothers would have favored a circus under the canvas or
                    whether they would have cut expenses to produce a circus under the sky.
            
               Peru, Indiana Ferol Friedline Meeker
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Enduring Lincoln. Edited by Norman A. Graebner. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1959. Pp. viii, 129. Index. $3.00.) This volume includes four
                    lectures given at the University of 
                        Illinois
                     as part of the university's sesquicentennial observance of Lincoln's
                    birth. Professor Roy P. Basler deals principally with Lincoln as symbol and myth, as "An
                    Immortal Sign," the interpretation of which is varied, often ambiguous, and frequently more
                    a reflection of the popular image of America than of the real Lincoln. Basler indicates major
                    problems which arise from Lincoln myths and symbols that have developed. Professors T. Harry
                    Williams, David Donald, and Norman A. Graebner have much in common in what they say of Lincoln. To
                    Williams, Lincoln was a "Pragmatic Democrat"; to Donald, he was a "Whig
                    in the White House"; to Graebner, he was a "Conservative Statesman."
                    Basler is quite likely in basic agreement with much that these three lecturers say, but he and they
                    travel different paths in these lectures. Williams, Donald, and Graebner agree that Lincoln
                    distrusted doctrinaire minds such as possessed by abolitionists, that he had basic principles but
                    was not rigidly committed to any definite set of policies, that he was the Great Nationalist even
                    more than the Great Emancipator, and that he was essentially a conservative. These are thoughtful
                    essays in a broad historical context, interesting to scholars and general readers alike.
            
               The Bark Covered House, or Back in the Woods Again. Reprint. By William Nowlin. (
                        Dearborn
                    , Mich.: 
                        Dearborn
                     Historical Commission, 1959. Pp. xiv, 250. Illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $2.00.) The Bark Covered House, first published in 1876, is a classic
                    description of pioneer life in southeastern 
                        Michigan
                    . Its author, William Nowlin, migrated from the Hudson Valley of 
                        New York
                     to a wilderness farm  near 
                        Detroit
                    , arriving with his parents in the spring of 1834. The privations and hardships of
                    pioneer life, characterized by isolation and the need for self-sufficiency, are vividly detailed.
                    The early and rapid development of both water and railroad transportation, however, soon shattered
                    pioneer life in the 
                        Detroit
                     area. The Bark Covered House supports the thesis that the pioneer era
                    was much shorter in areas where transportation developed rapidly than in areas lacking such
                    development. Teachers of junior and senior high school students wanting source material about
                    pioneer life will find The Bark Covered House a mine of information.
            
               On the Threshold of Liberty: Journal of a Frenchman's Tour of the American
                        Colonies in 1777. Translated by Edward D. Seeber. Indiana University
                        Publications Humanities Series, Number 43. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1959. Pp. x, 172. Index. Paperbound, $3.00.) This
                    volume records an unknown Frenchman's impressions of the American colonies as they were
                    when he made a tour of several months during 1777. The author stresses that he noted a spirit of
                    liberty and a tendency toward independence on the part of the American colonists, then in the midst
                    of the War for Independence. His observations indicate that he also perceived American distrust of
                    the French, and he expressed the view that Americans would never sincerely like the French (pp.
                    66-67). Professor Seeber appears to have done his editorial work with care. The account offers
                    observations which bear upon social and economic history as well as upon political and military
                    aspects of the American Revolution.
            
               Here is Your Indiana Government. Ninth edition, revised (September, 1959). (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana State Chamber of Commerce, 1959. Pp. vi, 127. Tables, charts, illustrations,
                    appendix, index. Paper-bound, $1.25.) This ninth edition of Here is Your
                        Indiana Government includes much valuable information about state and local government in
                    Indiana. Much of the information included is either not otherwise available or else not readily
                    available. The Indiana State Chamber of Commerce has performed a worth-while service in continuing
                    annual publication of Here is Your Indiana Government, which first appeared in
                    1944. This booklet should be extremely useful to teachers and students in the junior and senior high
                    schools of the state. In addition, it should also be a valuable reference book for adult study
                    groups as well as for citizens in general.
            
               Bibliography of School Laws and Texts of Major School Laws ewted by the Ninety-first
                        Indiana General Assembly. School Law Series. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana State Teachers Association, 1959. Pp. xxvii, 168. Bibliography. Paperbound.)
                    This item is a useful compendium of legislation regarding schools enacted by the Indiana General
                    Assembly at its biennial session in 1959. Forty-three school laws are here
                    "photographically copied from the official print of the Acts" (p. iii). In
                    addition, an annotated bibliography summarizes the content of these and various additional laws.
                    This publication is part of the  School Law Series which the
                    Indiana State Teachers Association has published following the close of each legislative session
                    since 1945. It should be particularly useful to school administrators, members of school boards,
                    students of Indiana school law, and citizens wanting information about school laws in a convenient
                    form.
            
               
                  
                            Elkhart County
                         Year Book, 1959. (
                        Goshen
                    , Ind.: 
                        Elkhart County
                     Agricultural Society Project Committee, 1959. Pp. 112. Numerous illustrations, map,
                    indices. $3.00.) This book emphasizes information about farm and rural life in 
                        Elkhart County
                     as of approximately 1958, though some historical information is included. Numerous
                    pictures illustrate and supplement the text. Here is substantial information that, at least in 
                        Elkhart County
                    , farm life has become more "organized" and also represents a much
                    higher standard of living than formerly. These and other important changes in farm life are readily
                    apparent when the content of the 
                  
                            Elkhart County
                         Year Book, 1959 is compared with the content of the Annual
                        Reports of the State Board of Agriculture for Indiana during the 1850's.
            
               Interurban Railways of 
                            Allen County
                        , Indiana. By Roy M. Bates. (
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Ind.: 
                  Allen County-Fort Wayne
                Historical Society, 1958. Pp. 49. Map, illustrations,
                    bibliography. Paperbound.) This pamphlet contains considerable information about interurban
                    railroads of 
                        Allen County
                    , and much of it is of interest to students of such railroads within Indiana and the
                    American Middle West. Author Roy Bates has previously studied ghost towns and water-powered mills of 
                        Allen County
                     as well as other aspects of local history. Bates credits Charles L. Henry, an Indiana
                    lawyer and congressman, for coining the word "interurban." He indicates that 
                        Allen County
                    's last interurban was discontinued in 1941.
            
               A List of all the Friends Meetings That Exist OT Ever Have Existed in Indiana,
                        1807-1955. Compiled by Willard Heiss. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Published by the compiler, 1969. Pp. 64. Bibliography. Paperbound, $3.00.)
                    The content of this mimeographed publication is correctly described by its title. In introductory
                    remarks Mr. Heiss modestly writes: "The following pages are the result of many years of
                    this writer collecting bits of information from this source and that. This has been a tedious task
                    and even now only points the direction. Errors and mistakes abound in these lists and it will be a
                    continuing process of corrections." Perhaps some readers of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History can suggest additions or possible corrections to the list. This listing
                    of Friends' Meetings in Indiana offers much evidence that considerable diversity has
                    characterized Indiana Quakers.
            
               Whitewater: Indiana's First Monthly Meeting of Friends, 1809-1959. By Opal
                    Thornburg. (
                        Richmond
                    , Ind.: Igelman Printing Co., [19691. Pp. 32. Illustrations, bibliography, chronology.
                    Paperbound.) In this brief pamphlet Miss Thornburg has ably indicated the primacy  of the Whitewater Monthly Meeting within Indiana. Her sprightly style
                    and ability to interpret facts with perception make this sesquicentennial account both readable and
                    useful. Her references to persons such as David Hoover, Dr. John F. Plummer, Levi Coffin, Barnabas
                    Hobbs, and Cyrus Hodgin show that leaders of more than local importance have been nourished by the
                    Whitewater Monthly Meeting.
            
               Vanishing Crafts and Their Craftsmen. By Rollin C. Steinmetz and Charles S. Rice. (
                        New Brunswick
                    , 
                        N.J.
                    : Rutgers University Press, 1959. Pp. 160. Illustrations. $4.75.) An
                    illustrated popular account of the persistence of various crafts: blacksmithing, wood carving, lime
                    burning, candymaking, charcoal burning, cigar making, pottery making, glassmaking, ox-yoke making,
                    etc. This volume presents "vanishing crafts" as one of the unfortunate casualties
                    of modern industrialization.
            
               Adventures of Isaac Knight—Indian Captive: A True Story of the Northwest
                        Territory for Young and Old Americans. By Ken McCutchan. (
                        New York
                    : Greenwich Book Publishers, 1959. $2.75.) Ken McCutchan has written an
                    interesting tale regarding Isaac Knight's captivity among the Indians of the Old Northwest.
                    According to the legend here recounted, the Knight family settled where 
                        Henderson
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , now stands in the spring of 1793, and soon thereafter Isaac was captured by Indians.
                    The bulk of the story details his life among the redmen. This tale indicates the dreadful loss of
                    life among the Indians because of smallpox; it offers information about the fur trade and Indian
                    life generally; and it uses General Wayne's campaign of 1794 to illustrate the costly
                    conflict between the whites and Indians. One might easily question various details and aspects of
                    this story, but here is a legend of Indian captivity which should be of interest to junior high
                    school students of Indiana history. Experiences such as those McCutchan describes were a serious
                    danger among the early settlers of the Ohio Valley. (This type of danger is
                    also vividly related in "
                        Spencer
                     Records' Memoir of the Ohio Valley Frontier,
                    1766-1795," which appeared in the Indiana Magazine of History, December,
                    1959. Records' memoir is also suitable for use by junior high students as well as by
                    adults.)
            
               Blind Tiger: A Novel of the Triumph of Faith over Alcohol. By Anet Garrison. (
                        New York
                    : Exposition Press, 1959. Pp. 172. $3.00.) The subtitle of this volume, A Novel of the Triumph of Faith over Alcohol, suggests its general content. Its
                    locale is a small Indiana town. Anet Garrison previously wrote Abe Lincoln at Loafer
                        Station.
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
