
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 20, Issue 1, pages 1-121. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:20+issue:1+year:1924&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Early 
                        Vevay
                    
            
            PERRET DUFOUE, 
                        Vevay
                    
               1.
            
            There are many incidents connected with the settlement of all new countries, which, if committed to
                    writing or printing, would be a source of pleasure to those who come upon the stage of action long
                    after those who first made their settlement have gone to that "bourne from whence no
                    traveler returns".
            It is a source of regret to many of the descendants of the settlers of this part of the land that
                    they have not a more minute account of incidents that occurred from 1802 till 1820; for they have to
                    bring to their aid. the recollections of some who were but children, for the greater part of what
                    they know of but a small portion of the incidents connected with the settlement which was commenced
                    here in 1802. But in order that some few of those incidents may not be entirely forgotten, I will,
                    agreeable to a promise made to you, try, in my feeble manner, to write an article occasionally for
                    insertion in your paper (the 
                        Vevay
                     Democrat), and if you should think them of sufficient interest, or that they would in
                    any wise prove acceptable to the readers of your paper, you may publish them. I will not promise
                    that the style in which these articles may be written will be so fascinating as to cause them to be
                    read, but that the incidents that may be 
                  
                     1 These articles were published in the 
                                Vevay
                             Democrat In 1869. They are republished here primarily because 
                                Switzerland
                             county has no published county history.
               
                     related will enable those who may read them to learn the
                    privations and hardships endured by the early settlers of this part of the now great state of
                    Indiana.
            As an introductory article, I must give some of the incidents and reasons that induced the colony of
                    Swiss who first settled 
                        Vevay
                     and vicinity to leave the ease and comfort of an old-settled and wealthy country to
                    come to a wilderness in search of a home. I will try and not make any of these articles too lengthy.
            In March, 1796, John James Dufour, a citizen of 
                        Vevay
                    , Canton De Vaud, in 
                        Switzerland
                    , started from his native village for the 
                        United States
                    , with the design of selecting in the then wilderness of the West a home for himself,
                    his brothers and sisters, and after examining different localities along the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     rivers, from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        St. Louis
                    , he finally selected the lands between Hunt's creek and Indian creek as the
                    future home of himself, his brothers and sisters.
            Previous to his selecting these lands, he had formed a vineyard association with some of the citizens
                    of 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , among whom were Henry 
                        Clay
                    , Dr. 
                        Brown
                     and a Mr. Hart, and planted a vineyard on the 
                        Kentucky
                     river, about four miles above the mouth of Hickman creek, in Jessamine county. This
                    vineyard was commenced in the spring of 1799.
            As yet, the brothers and sisters of John James Dufour had not come to this country, and the
                    preparation of the land for planting the vineyard and keeping it in order was done by Americans,
                    under the direction and superintendence of John James Dufour.
            On the first of January, 1801, the Dufour brothers and sisters, together with a few of their
                    neighbors, met together at the appointed place, for taking a last and long farewell to home, friends
                    and native country, to cross the broad Atlantic for their new home in an unknown and howling
                    wilderness where, instead of the voice of friends, they would hear the whoop of the Indian and the
                    howl of the wolf. It must have been an affecting scene to behold young men and young women, some of
                    them in their teens, and two or three infants,  bidding farewell
                    to friends and home, to settle in such a wilderness as this part of the country then was.
            The whole number who then came to this colony were seventeen souls: Daniel Dufour and his wife, John
                    Francis Dufour, David Dufour, Jane Maria Dufour, Antoinette Dufour, Susannah M. Dufour, Philip
                    Bettens, his wife and daughter, Jean Daniel Morerod, Francis Louis Siebenthal, John Francis
                    Siebenthal, Peter Borallay, his wife, son and daughter.
            After a boisterous voyage across the Atlantic they arrived at Norfolk, 
                        Virginia
                    , in May, 1801. From thence they crossed the Allegheny mountains in wagons, to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , thence down the 
                        Ohio
                     river to Maysville, and from there by land to 
                        Lexington
                    , where they arrived on the 3rd of July, and were present at the celebration of the 4th
                    of July; and on the 6th the seventeen souls arrived at the vineyard on the 
                        Kentucky
                     river, where they remained for some time.
            In the spring of 1802 these persons petitioned congress to pass an act authorizing then to enter
                    lands on an extended credit, with a view of giving them an opportunity of introducing the culture of
                    the grape in the 
                        United States
                    . Accordingly, on the 1st of May, 1802, an act was passed by congress and became a law,
                    giving them the power to enter four sections of land on a credit of twelve years. Under that act
                    about 2,500 acres were selected and about 1,200 acres more, adjoining thereto, was entered and paid
                    for as other purchasers of the public lands entered land; and after they commenced settling on these
                    lands they gave it the name of New 
                        Switzerland
                    .
            There were but few settlers near these lands when the settlement by the Swiss families commenced.
            The lands selected by John James Dufour for the settlement of his brothers, sisters and the other
                    emigrants who came with them to the 
                        United States
                    , were fractional sections seven and eighteen, town one, range two; sections twelve and
                    fifteen, and fractional sections thirteen, fourteen, twenty-two, twenty-three and twenty-seven, town
                    two, range three west, extending along the 
                        Ohio
                     river from Hunt's creek down to the lands now owned by Francis E. Mennet,
                    whose  father, Samuel Mennet, Frederick L. Raymond, Frederick
                    Deserns, Louis Gex and Luke Oboussier, had joined this Swiss colony and purchased some of the lands
                    up the river to the road that turns out from the river bank and runs out to the Indian creek bridge,
                    passing the residence of the Widow Norrissey. The balance of these lands were divided among the
                    Dufour family, Golay, Siebenthal, Bettens and Morerod.
            These lands were covered with the heaviest forests, for which the 
                        Ohio
                     river bottoms were so famous, and the undergrowth being overrun with grape vines, made
                    it almost impossible to get through it. These almost impenetrable forests were more congenial for
                    the abode of the Indian, bear, wolf, catamount and wild cat, than for man. Suffice to say, that into
                    this forest these Swiss families had "come to stay", or, in other words, to find a
                    home, and with their vigorous arms and determined courage, to clear up the land and cultivate it as
                    a means of procuring a living.
            In 1803 some of these families came from the first vineyard in 
                        Kentucky
                     to these lands. Jean Daniel Morerod and Philip Bettens moved into a cabin that had been
                    erected by some "squatters" on the public lands near where Charles
                    Norrissey's house stands, and remained there together until they could build themselves
                    cabins on their respective tracts of lands, which lie adjoining.
            They had for neighbors a family by the name of Maguire, who lived in a cabin some where near the lot
                    owned by William Hall, and John Rayl, who lived in the bottom opposite the foot of 
                        Vevay
                     island, and Heathcoat Picket, the grandfather of Benjamin Picket, living near where the
                    Place house, now owned by Julius McMakin, stands, and Griffith Dickason, and William Cotton, who
                    lived on Indian creek, near where John Baker now lives.
            Any one who has assisted in opening a new settlement can easily understand what an undertaking it
                    must have been to clear the land and raise log houses where the settlements were so sparse, and they
                    may imagine what a work was here for persons to do, in this heavy forest, who had been born and
                    reared in a country that dated its settlement back to the time of the Ceasars, and who knew little
                    or nothing about
            
            using the axe as our "Yankees" do, who had a house to raise, logs to cut and roll,
                    and but few, very few, neighbors who knew anything about this kind of work, to assist them.
            These persons had been accustomed to all the necessaries and many of the luxuries that could be
                    obtained in old settled countries; and here they were in a howling wilderness, far from any market
                    in which to purchase the coffee, chocolate and other articles of food and clothing-
                        Cincinnati
                     at that time being the nearest and most convenient place to obtain these articles.
            It is related of Mr. Bettens’ and Morerod's families, which were then small, that
                    when they had no milk, they did not use coffee. Their neighbor, Maguire, having a cow, sent them
                    milk every other day. On that day they used coffee, and on the day they received no milk they would
                    take the cloth in which the coffee was pounded (having no mill) and smell of it to get the flavor of
                    the coffee.
            During the spring of 1804 others of the Swiss families came to their lands, the
                    Siebenthal's, Golay's, Gex and others, so that the settlement was considerably
                    increased and the lands from that time began to be cleared up more rapidly; and in 1805 quite a good
                    crop of corn and some wheat was raised. The straw was saved, in a very neat manner, to make hats.
                    The Dufour girls made a great many of these hats, which were sent to 
                        Cincinnati
                     for sale.
            It was said of Mr. Morerod, who married one of the Dufour girls, Antoinette, that on one occasion his
                    wife had made two or three dozen of these hats which he took to 
                        Cincinnati
                     with him in a canoe. While going up the street with these hats on his shoulder the
                    citizens ran after him to see what he had, and when they saw he had hats for sale he sold them all
                    in a very short time at about two and a half and three dollars each.
            Mr. Morerod used to relate many incidents in relation to the wild game that came about his clearing
                    and fields. I recollect he related that one fall in particular wild turkeys were so numerous and
                    tame that he was obliged to keep them away from his hogs when he fed them corn, as they could eat
                    the corn faster than the hogs could; and if a turkey
            
            was needed for the table, nothing was necessary to be done but to select out one that appeared fat
                    and with a stick knock it over and kill it, which could be done very easily. Bear, deer and wilk
                    turkey were so plentiful that there was no fear of a famine for flesh to eat.
            Improvements began to be made at other points along the river above where 
                        Vevay
                     now stands, and the land on which 
                        Vevay
                     was laid out was being cleared up, Daniel Dufour having commenced in 1804 to make an
                    opening between where William Hall resides and U. P. Schenck's warehouse; and John F.
                    Dufour, who was yet at the first vineyard, had hired some person to commence an opening on his land,
                    between where Vineyard and Liberty streets now run.
            About this time the Indians had been quite troublesome on the 
                        Wabash
                    , about 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the settlers began to take precautions against a surprise, but they were not
                    molested, and matters were going on prosperously for the new settlement. Vineyards were being set
                    out as fast as it was possible to prepare the land for that purpose. But still the settlers were
                    almost shut out from the world around them. If they wished to get letters from their friends, or to
                    send any, they were obliged to go to Port William (now Carrollton), the nearest post office, and
                    that supplied with a mail once in two weeks, or perhaps once a week.
            These were privations which we at the present day would be very far from submitting to, for we can
                    now in a few hours get news direct from 
                  London,
                            Paris
                and from the Pacific coast, and no
                    doubt we could receive at this time letters from Alaska in as short a space of time as they could at
                    that time from 
                        New York
                     City. What would some of our "Young America" say if they had to go
                    and settle in such a country and undergo the privations of the settlers of this part of 
                        Switzerland
                     county?
            Although from 1800 to the admission of 
                        Ohio
                     into the Union as a state, that part of the present state of Indiana lying east of the
                    Indian Boundry, as it is called (commencing opposite the mouth of the 
                        Kentucky
                     river) was in the Territory Northwest of the 
                        Ohio
                    , and the balance of the state and territory west to the 
                        Mississippi
                     river was called Indiana territory,  until 1809, when
                    the territory was divided, and all west of the 
                        Wabash
                    , and a line drawn from 
                        Vincennes
                     due north, was called 
                        Illinois
                     territory.
            Nothing occurred to retard the clearing up of the land. The settlers were not molested by the
                    Indians, and enjoyed their health remarkably, and they began to gather about them cattle, horses and
                    hogs, but their hogs had to be taken good care of to prevent the bears and wolves from catching
                    them, which was of very common occurrence. And their fields and vineyards began to make quite a
                    contrast with the surrounding forest.
            The first wine made was in 1806 or ‘07. The quantity was quite limited, but of a very good
                    quality; but still the vineyards were enlarged every spring, so that the bearing vines became more
                    numerous from year to year, and the quality of wine also increased every year until the vintage of
                    1808 and ‘09 yielded: the former, 800, and the latter about 1,200 gallons of wine.
            Orchards were commenced so soon as land could be prepared for planting out the trees, and in a few
                    years quite large orchards were in a thrifty condition and some commenced bearing fruit.
            This will bring us to the commencement of the year 1809 and still the settlers were obliged to go in
                    canoes, skiffs or perogues to 
                        Cincinnati
                     for their salt, iron, nails, groceries and dry goods, not yet enjoying the convenience
                    and luxury of a steamboat ride to the Queen city.
            In the spring of 1809 John Francis Dufour came from the first vineyard in 
                        Kentucky
                     to his land in New 
                        Switzerland
                    , as the settlement was then called. He built a cabin on the spot where Mr. William
                    Archer's kitchen stands. The cabin was built of small round logs, one and a half stories
                    high, in the midst of a heavy growth of timber, the logs being cut so near the spot where they were
                    raised that it required scarcely any hauling to be done. The logs of the cabin were hewed inside
                    after they were raised. Into this cabin Mr. Dufour, his wife and child then about eighteen or twenty
                    months old, moved, and he turned his attention to clearing more land, raising a crop and planting
                    out a vinyard.
            
            The health of the colonists was preserved in a very surprising degree, considering the hardships and
                    privations they had to undergo. They had cleared a considerable quantity of land, and planted
                    several acres of vineyards, which began to bear fruit.
            But one great difficulty had yet to be overcome, as all their correspondence going through the mail
                    had to be sent to Port William before it could be put into the mail. John Francis Dufour drew up a
                    memorial to the postmaster general, which was signed by himself and all the citizens of the
                    neighborhood, and sent to Hon. Buckner Thruston, who was either a senator, delegate or
                    representative in congress. (Senator, 1805-9.) Upon its receipt, Mr. Thruston laid it before the
                    deputy postmaster general, which fact he communicated to Mr. Dufour by letter, of which the
                    following is a copy: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              WASHINGTON, 
                           
                                    Feb. 9, 1810
                                
                        SIR: I received your letter with the memorial enclosed to the Postmaster General, and
                                    shortly after waited on the Deputy Postmaster General (Mr. Granger being confined
                                    with sickness) and laid before him your said memorial, and am happy to inform you
                                    that your desires will be complied with, both in regard to the establishment of a
                                    Post office at 
                                        Vevay
                                    , and your appointment as Postmaster. You may shortly expect to hear
                                    from the Deputy Postmaster General on this subject, who promised to enclose you your
                                    commission. I am rejoiced to hear of your success in the cultivation of the vine,
                                    and wish you all manner of prosperity in future. I feel no claim to the compliments
                                    you have been pleased to bestow on me in regard to my zeal for encouraging the
                                    improvements of the Western country, etc., but be happy to deserve such if it shall
                                    ever be in my power to render you service.
                        With a sincere desire that yourself and your compatriots may reap a good harvest from
                                    your labors, which must essentially redound to the public good, I am
                        
                                    Your humble servant,
                                    B. THRUSTON
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            This letter was directed to John Francis Dufour, Port Williams, Ky.
            The commission appointed John Francis Dufour of New 
                  Switzerland, Dearborn county
               , Indiana
                    territory, deputy postmaster aforesaid, at 
                        Vevay
                    , and bears date the 23rd day of March, 1810, and is signed by Gideon Granger, who was
                    then  postmaster general. This commission was resigned on the 20th
                    of September, 1835, to take effect on the 1st of October following, which was accepted by the
                    postmaster general. Whether the settlers received their letters and papers regularly by the mail, it
                    is impossible for the writer of this to say; but one fact will be very manifest to every one who may
                    read these articles—that they had no longer to go eight miles to the nearest post office.
                    Although the post office was called 
                        Vevay
                    , there was no town laid off yet.
            In the fall of 1810 the Swiss settlement extended from about where Liberty street of 
                        Vevay
                     now is to where Francis E. Mennet resides, and had augmented from the three first
                    families, numbering seven persons, to thirteen families, numbering sixty-six persons; and as they
                    owned the lands about the mouth of Indian creek, they changed the name on account of the great
                    number of creeks in the 
                        United States
                     called Indian. The name given it by them was "Venoge", after a small
                    river in the Pays de Vaud, which empties into the beautiful lake 
                        Geneva
                    , and on the banks of which some of these Swiss were raised. A description of the
                    settlement cannot be better given than by copying here an account of it written by John F. Dufour,
                    in the fall of 1810, which is as follows: 
                        New 
                                Switzerland
                             is situated on the right bank of the 
                                Ohio
                             river, in Jefferson county, Indiana territory, about seven miles above the
                            mouth of the 
                                Kentucky
                             river. This settlement was begun in the spring of 1803, by some Swiss, of the
                            Canton of Vaud, formerly a part of the Canton of Verne. Their principal object is the
                            introduction of the culture of the grapevines in this country.
                        This settlement, or the place called New 
                                Switzerland
                            , extends from the mouth of Plum creek, down the river to the mouth of Venoge
                            creek, known by the name of Indian creek, a distance of about four and a half miles,
                            fronting the river, and extending back for the quantity of about 3,700 acres of
                            land—2,500 acres of which they purchased under a law of congress in favor of John
                            James Dufour and his associates, allowing them twelve years to pay for it, from 1802, the
                            time of the purchase; the balance they have bought, as other purchasers, and paid for it.
                            The lower end, about two miles along the river is occupied by thirteen Swiss families,
                            composed of sixty-five individuals, of every age. Ten of these have successively come to
                            join the three first who had begun the settlement. Had it not been for the difficulties in
                            crossing the ocean,  it is believed the whole distance of
                            four and one-half miles would be filled up with many more of those industrious people.
                        The improvements of the Swiss are considerable, considering the time when they began, the few
                            hands employed, and their inexperience in the way of improving land in this country. They
                            have now about one hundred and forty acres of land under cultivation, about eight of which
                            are planted in grape vines, and now bearing, which offer to the eye of an observer the
                            handsomest and the most interesting agrciultural prospects which has perhaps ever existed in
                            the 
                                United States
                             of America. There are about eight or nine acres more planted in grapevines
                            which are not yet bearing, and they keep planting more every spring. The crop of wine of
                            this year (1810) has exceeded the quantity of 2,400 gallons, the quality of which is thought
                            by judges of wine to be superior to that of the Claret of Bordeaux. The black grapes with
                            which it is made are originally from the Cape of Good Hope. Out of the 2,400 gallons, about
                            120 was white or yellow wine, made with the Madeira grapes. These two kinds of wine are the
                            only ones which have hitherto succeeded, but others are going to be tried, and it is very
                            probably that some of them will also produce good wines. When the vines shall be older, and
                            the vine-dressers be able to let their wine acquire age before they sell it, its quality
                            will be much superior to what it is now, and there is no doubt but in the course of a
                            certain number of years the 
                                United States
                             will be able to do without importing wine. That precious culture will be tried
                            in different parts of the Union, and will undoubtedly multiply rapidly. The Swiss will
                            encourage it with all their power. They give slips gratis to whoever will plant them, with
                            directions and instructions as to their cutivation.
                        The Swiss also cultivate Indian corn, wheat, potatoes, hemp, flax, and other articles
                            necessary to farmers, although in small quantities. Some of their women manufacture a
                            certain quantity of straw hats, which they sell in 
                                Cincinnati
                            , and on the river to trading boats, carry them to the 
                                Mississippi
                             country, where they are very ready sale. They are made in a fashion quite
                            different from other straw hats. They are made by tying the straws together, instead of
                            plaiting, and sewing the plaits. It is one of Mr. Dufour's sisters who has first
                            brought the art to this western country, and perhaps into the 
                                United States
                            .
                        As the Swiss enlarge their vineyards every year more and more their settlement will in a few
                            years become of great consequence, not only in producing good and wholesome wine, but also
                            in being a model for those who will establish new vineyards in other parts of this
                            continent, which will be found suitable for that culture.
                        New 
                                Switzerland
                             has the advantage of two roads. One is a fork from the road leading from 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             to Port William, taking off to the left about one mile and a half before
                            arriving at Venoge or Indian creek, and leads to Dufour's ferry, opposite which is
                            a road leading to 
                                Frankfort
                             and 
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     . The other road is one leading
                            from the upper end of Jefferson county down to 
                                Madison
                            , all along the river. There is also a post office by the name of 
                                Vevay
                            , which  is the name of a town intended to be
                            shortly laid off in the center of New 
                                Switzerland
                            , for the accommodation of mechanics.
                    
            
            Such, then, were the leading features of the new settlement in 1810. There is no mention made of
                    grist mills and other necessary manufacturing establishments for the convenience of the people. As
                    for mills, nearly every family had one of their own, a hand mill, the stones of which were generally
                    about fifteen inches in diameter; or if it was thought to be more expeditious to convert corn and
                    wheat into meal and flour, the 
                        Ohio
                     must be crossed to go to a horse mill about four miles back from the river, near where
                    John Scott used to live. The sacks of grain were put on the horses, taken to the river, the sacks
                    put into a canoe and one person paddling across, another holding the horses behind the canoe, and
                    thus made to swim across the river. After the grinding was done the river was recrossed in the same
                    way. In that milling operation it required two men and two horses often two days to get two grists
                    of two and a half or three bushels each, ground and brought home.
            As for schools, they were almost unknown. Lucien Gex taught a school at Mr. Bettens, near the spot
                    where Samuel E. Pleasant's house now stands. This school was kept up for some two or three
                    years. The writer recollects attending that school at the age of about four years, going alone from
                    home (the place where William Archer's new building now stands) until he got to his uncle
                    Daniel Dufour's, and from there he and two cousins went on to their uncle
                    Morerod's, and were joined by two other cousins, and all proceeded to school. The French
                    language only was taught.
            It may be of interest to name some of the first born in the colony, who are now living.
            The first child born in the colony was a daughter of Mr. Bettens, born perhaps in 1803. She is still
                    living, and is the wife of Henry Brachman, of 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            The next was a daughter of Mr. Morerod and a daughter of Daniel Dufour, born in 1804. They are both
                    living. The daughter of Mr. Morerod is Mrs. Harriet Tardy, of the firm of Tardy and Detraz,
                    milliners, of this place. The daughter of Daniel Dufour was married to John M. King, who was  in 1835 or ‘36 postmaster here, and was the first
                    auditor of 
                        Switzerland
                     county after that office was created. At last accounts she was living with one of her
                    daughters in 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            During the winter of 1810-11, and the spring and summer of 1811, the settlers were often alarmed at
                    the news of Indian depredations on settlements north and northwest of New 
                        Switzerland
                    . As the best means for safety, at night several families would meet at Mr.
                    Morerod's, as the most central and convenient place, the women and children remaining
                    within, with the door well barred, and the men by turns standing guard outside. How many anxious
                    nights were passed in this manner cannot now be told, but during the fall of 1810 and winter of
                    1810-11 this was kept up; the men working through the day in their fields and clearings not knowing
                    at what moment they might be attacked by Indians and massacred in the presence too, perhaps, of
                    their wives and little children. But fortunately they passed through the winter and spring without
                    any hostile demonstration being made against the settlement. Sometime before the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , in 1811, the Indians became more hostile and attacked a settlement somewhere north of 
                        Madison
                    , at a point which gave to that event the "Massacre of Pigeon Roost".
                    This occurred sometime in the winter of 1811-12, and as that had taken place within less than thirty
                    miles of New 
                        Switzerland
                    , the settlers were again thrown into dismay and consternation, not knowing but that
                    they would be attacked by these merciless savage foes, who spared none, regardless of age, sex or
                    condition. And this consternation was not confined to the settlers at New 
                        Switzerland
                    , but spread throughout the whole southern and southeastern portion of the territory.
                    This state of uncertainty continued during the spring of 1812, when the authorities ordered the
                    militia to be called out, and orders were issued by the commandants of regiments to have men raised
                    by voluntary enlistment. Elisha Golay, who had been commissioned a captain of the first batalion in
                    the first regiment of the militia of Jefferson county, by William Henry Harrison then governor of
                    Indiana territory-his commission bearing date of the 4th day  of
                    February, 1811-received an order to enlist men in his company, which order is in the following
                    words:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              MADISON,
                           
                                     May 10th, 1812
                                
                        Captain ELISHA GOLAY:
                        DEAR Sir: I have received orders from Colonel David Hillis this day, to have raised
                                    within this battalion fifteen privates, two corporals and two sergeants, who are to
                                    be rendezvoused in 
                                        Madison
                                     on Friday next, at the hour of 12 o'clock. You are hereby
                                    authorized and required to convene your company on Wednesday next, for the purpose
                                    of raising by voluntary enlistment three privates and one sergeant within your
                                    company, to be equipped according to law, and marched with two days provisions to 
                                        Madison
                                    , on Friday the 15th of this instant as above stated. You are to hold
                                    the same number of men in readiness to march to 
                                        Madison
                                     on Saturday, 23d of this instant, as a relief to the first draft. But
                                    if volunteers cannot be had, you will have to draft, and place your whole company in
                                    such order as to give relief every ten days to those who are in service. You are
                                    also notified that you are to command the company now raised, and will come prepared
                                    accordingly to serve until discharged by order of the colonel or commander-in-chief.
                        
                                    JOHN VAWTER, Maj. 1st Bat. 6th Reg. Ind. Mil.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            This order and those to captains of other companies were promptly obeyed, and the following named
                    persons volunteered for the service required, and were placed under the command of Captain Golay
                    after they had rendezvoused at 
                        Madison
                    : Lieutenant, William Blankenship; 1st sergeant, Luke Oboussier; 2nd sergeant, Beverly
                    Vawter; 3d sergeant, Peter Storm; 4th sergeant, Thomas Whitson; 1st corporal, John Hall; 2nd
                    corporal, Abraham Cline; privates, Lewis Golay, John Tague, James Picket, Peter Mosbyer, James
                    Edwards, Samuel Lattimore, James Hicks, Achilles Vawter, Joshua Tull, William Chambers, Lewis
                    Blankenship, Squire Hall, Daniel Demaree, William Laughridge, Stephen 
                        Rutherford
                    , William Fidds, Osburn 
                        Monroe
                    , Williamson Dunn, Thomas Taylor and Booth Thomas.
            After this company was fully organized and ready to receive the orders of the colonel or
                    commander-in-chief, Captain Golay received the following order from the lieutenant colonel of the
                    regiment: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Captain ELISHA GOLAY:
                        You will proceed on the morning of the 16th instant [1812] with the detachment now
                                    under your command from the town of 
                                        Madison
                                    
                                     to the outside of the frontier settlements of
                                    this county, and then to range east and west as far as the settlements extend. On
                                    your arrival at the frontier you will proceed without delay to build a block house
                                    [Buchanan's Station] of such size and form as will most securely and
                                    conveniently accommodate a detachment of from thirty to forty men, including
                                    officers. You will also keep a sufficient number of men on duty as rangers, both
                                    east and west of the spot on which you may erect the block house, to watch the
                                    motions of the Indians and give timely notice of their approach and in case of any
                                    alarm either by an attack or otherwise, you will take the most speedy method of
                                    giving notice to the lieutenant colonel of this regiment; and in every case of this
                                    kind you are referred for further instructions to the orders of the
                                    commander-in-chief whose general orders are most implicitly to be obeyed. You will
                                    in all your movements, be on your guard, and never allow any advantages to be taken
                                    of your forbearance with the enemy while on their frontiers, and in all cases, when
                                    there is strolling and skulking parties of Indians within the boundaries of your
                                    command with whom your men may meet, do not allow your men to run any risk by
                                    enquiring of them respecting their friendship towards us, unless circumstances will
                                    justify it. You will also be held responsible for your conduct while on this
                                    command. Your present tour will be for ten days from the time of your departure from
                                    this place, and at the same time you are not to come in with your men until a relief
                                    arrives, unless compelled by a superior force of the enemy. You will take care to
                                    give your orders to the men under your command, not by any means whatsoever to fire
                                    after sunset, unless at an enemy, or to give an alarm, and at all other times it
                                    will be expected that your orders will be given on this subject with prudence and
                                    exercised with caution. You will take care to keep on duty at all times a sufficient
                                    number of sentinels and no other orders will be given to them but such as your
                                    presence’ may by circumstances require.
                        
                                    DAVID HILLIS, Lt.-Col. 6th R. I. M.
                                    MADISON, May 15th, 1812.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            This detachment proceeded through the forests to the outside of the frontier settlements upon the
                    discharge of the duties assigned them by the orders of the commandant of the regiment. During their
                    service they had the good fortune to escape all the wiles and strategy of their wily enemy. The
                    block house they were to build according to the order, was built at a point somewhere within the
                    present bounds of Jefferson county, and was familiarly known and called, in after years,
                    "Buchannon's Station," which stood there until within a few years past.
            See with what minute details the order specifies the duties  of
                    the commander of this detachment of hardy backwoodsmen, while on duty far from the more settled
                    parts of the country, and on their enemies own ground. It was well known they had a wily and
                    treacherous enemy to deal with, and that it required prudence, courage and fortitude for so small a
                    number of men to meet perhaps hundreds of the savage foe whose mode of warfare was to spare neither
                    age, sex or condition, when they attacked the settlements of the white man. The duties assigned to
                    this detachment were strictly carried out and these hardy backwoodsmen again returned in safety to
                    their families and friends. After this time there were no more hostile Indian raids into the
                    settlements along and near the 
                        Ohio
                     river in this part of the territory.
            Among the names of those who composed this command may be recognized some who have been somewhat
                    prominent in the affairs of state. David Hillis, who represented Jefferson county in the
                    legislature, and was lieutenant governor of the state; the Vawters were men of note in the state;
                    after the formation of the state government John Vawter was a member of the senate for many years,
                    filled the office of 
                        United States
                     marshal, for the district of Indiana, and was an active and influential friend and
                    advocate of the system of internal improvements, and he and one of the other Vawters were ministers
                    of the gospel who preached in this part of the territory. They were of the Baptist persuasion.
                    William Dunn was the father of Colonel William McKee Dunn, who is well known by the citizens of the
                    county. Luke Oboussier and Lewis Golay were residents of New 
                        Switzerland
                    -the latter a brother of the captain and father of Selden T. Golay. Stephen 
                        Rutherford
                     was the father of Joseph 
                        Rutherford
                     of this place. John Tague was the father of Joseph Tague, who resides at Mt. Sterling.
                    James Picket was a brother of Heathcoat Picket and uncle to Benjamin Picket. Abraham Cline lived
                    below Indian Creek and I believe was related to the Raymonds and Edward Violet. Daniel Demaree was a
                    connection of the Demarees living on Indian 
                        Kentucky
                    , in Jefferson county, and those living in this county. Of the other members of that
                    detachment, the writer has no knowledge. These men were some of the instruments employed by God  in making this (then) wilderness a suitable abode for civilized
                    men, that He might honor and glorify the Creator and Preserver of their lives and health, and that
                    we, their descendants, might have "goodly heritage" and give God the praise for
                    all the mercies and blessings vouchsafed to us as a people.
            In the spring of 1806 John James Dufour returned to Europe with the intention of settling his
                    affairs, and to raise money to pay the 
                        United States
                     government for the land purchased by him, which payment would become due in 1812 and
                    also to bring his family and his father to this country.
            In crossing the Atlantic ocean the vessel in which he had taken passage was captured by an English
                    man-of-war and taken to 
                        Plymouth
                     on the 4th of May, 1806. He remained in 
                        England
                    , not being permitted to depart, until the 5th of June following, when he was permitted
                    to resume his journay to 
                        Switzerland
                    . He remained in 
                        Switzerland
                     until 1816, when he again returned to the 
                        United States
                    . During his stay in Europe the war between Great Britain and the 
                        United States
                     commenced, and it was not thought advisable for him to start on his return during the
                    war, for fear of being captured, all the funds he had with him perhaps be taken from him and the
                    means for paying for the land would be lost—the time for the payment to the government
                    being near at hand. He sent a memorial to congress, setting forth the facts and asking an extension
                    of the time of payment, which was granted.
            At the conclusion of the war he returned and made final payment for the land. Those of the colony
                    here very much feared the land would be forfeited for non-payment, as there was not much prospect of
                    making that amount by the sale of the products of their farms.
            In the spring of 1809, when John Francis Dufour left the first vineyard to come to New 
                        Switzerland
                    , he was one week in getting to Port William. The 
                        Ohio
                     river was so high that the back water ran up the 
                        Kentucky
                     river to 
                        Frankfort
                    , making it necessary to row the small boat in which the voyage was made. On arriving at
                    Port William, it was found impossible for him to get up the 
                        Ohio
                     to the place of his destination, alone. Leaving the boat, with his wife and only child,
                    and  what articles of household goods were on board, he walked up
                    to New 
                        Switzerland
                     to get some of his friends from there to go and help him up with the small boat. On the
                    next morning they started up the river, and at night arrived at the mouth of Indian creek, during a
                    severe storm, which caused the river to be so rough that several articles which were heavy were
                    thrown overboard to lighten the boat, among them a large iron kettle and a pair of hand mill stones.
            In 1811 very severe shocks of earthquake were felt—the same shocks, no doubt, which were
                    so violent along the 
                        Mississippi
                     river, and caused the opening and the sinking of the earth at New Madrid. The person
                    who was mail carrier at that time, and supplied the post office at 
                        Vevay
                    , was staying at the house of John Francis Dufour. During the night, his horse was
                    fastened to the end of the cabin. During the night the shocks were so severe that the inmates were
                    awakened, not knowing what it was. At first they thought that Indians had surrounded the house and
                    were trying to get into it; but not hearing any noise, it was then thought it might possibly be the
                    horse rubbing against the house and then all was still. In the morning, however, feeling the house
                    to shake, and not knowing what caused it, on looking out at the window, which faced to the
                    southwest, the trees were perceived to be swaying to and fro, as violently as though the wind was
                    very high, when in fact it was very still, no wind blowing. Then, and not till then, did the inmates
                    of the little cabin, who were very much alarmed during the night—fearing that Indians had
                    surrounded them—ascertain that it was one of those terrible convulsions of the earth, an
                    earthquake. These shocks were felt at intervals, for two or three days.
            In the summer of 1812, a family residing about where Louis Schroeder lives, consisting of a man and
                    his wife, whose name is not now recollected, but thought to be Rayls—the man being up in 
                        Switzerland
                     working (on this side of the creek)-the woman heard the firing of guns up the creek,
                    and supposing that Indians were in the neighborhood, became alarmed for her husband's
                    safety. There then being no nearer neighbors than at the mouth of the creek, she proceeded down to
                    where Edward Violet and his father were at work in the field, 
                    and crying out loudly for help, the father directed his son Edward to go and ascertain the cause of
                    the noise they heard. When he came to where the woman was he found that she was very much frightened
                    saying that large numbers of Indians were coming down the creek, for she had heard the firing of the
                    guns. She was set over the creek, and for safety proceeded up to where her husband was at work.
            During the years 1812, ‘13, ‘14 all the business relating to the county of
                    Jefferson—of which what is now 
                        Switzerland
                     county formed a part—was transacted at 
                        Madison
                    . The returns of elections, returns of overseer of roads, battalion and regimental
                    musters, and various other duties of officers and citizens, were transacted and performed at 
                        Madison
                    , the county seat. The population of this part of the county of Jefferson increased in
                    such a manner that the assessor for 1813 was appointed from among the citizens of this part of the
                    county, and John Francis Dufour was in February, 1812, appointed by the court assessor for and
                    within the county of Jefferson; and in October of that year he was appointed county surveyor of
                    Jefferson, by Thomas Posey, then governor of Indiana territory. These matters are mentioned only to
                    show that the interests of the county were such as to require the appointment of the county officers
                    residing in this part of the county.
            Some time during the years 1812 and ‘13 a grist mill was built at Laughery, near where 
                        Hartford
                     now stands, and a horse mill opposite Port William. The latter was known as
                    Mclntire's mill, having been built by a person of that name, who was the grandfather of
                    Joseph Netherland. Very frequently persons from the settlement would have to remain two days before
                    getting their grinding done at the horse mill; and often two or three would join together, load a
                    large canoe, take it up the river to the mouth of Laughery, and up the creek as far as they could
                    get, and then get a wagon to haul their grain from there to the mill. In this manner, perhaps after
                    an absence of two or three days, they would return with their grists of meal.
            After the declaration of war against Great Britain, in 1812, the Indians in the northern part of the
                    territory, and  along the 
                        Wabash
                     river, appeared quite hostile to their white neighbors and as a precaution against the
                    possibility of their making a sudden descent upon the settlement in the southern part of the
                    territory and along the 
                        Ohio
                     river, "rangers," as they were termed, were sent out quite a distance
                    into the interior to watch their movements, and give timely notice of their approach.
            These men were taken from the companies of militia which were organized by voluntary enlistment. The
                    year or years in which these rangers served, is not exactly known; but the names of some of them
                    which are recollected are John Stepleton, William Keith, Samuel Peak, Lewis Golay, David Golay,
                    Peter Nighswonger, Thomas Rayl, Peter Lock, James Picket, Jesse Warden, James A. Stewart, one White,
                    William Miller and Abraham Miller, his father, Edward Violet, and many others whose names are
                    forgotten. These rangers would go out into the interior up Laughery, near where 
                        Versailles
                     now stands, and range to the west a considerable distance. At one time they went as far
                    as Fort Harrison.
            Many incidents no doubt occurred on these tours of duty by these hardy pioneers, which, if they could
                    be related in these numbers, would be highly interesting to their descendants, who are very numerous
                    in the county; but unfortunately, the actors in these affairs have passed away from our midst
                    without committing to writing any of those thrilling incidents attending the camp duty and camp
                    life, and they are lost to us.
            Some time after the rangers were dismissed from duty, and it no longer required their presence in the
                    interior, one of them in an evil hour, was tempted to commit a crime, and, yielding to that
                    temptation, was prosecuted in the courts for stealing a barrel of whisky or cider. A trading boat
                    having landed below the foot of the island, had, among other articles, whisky, on board to sell.
                    This man, whose name was Peter Lock, a very large robust young man, managed to get a barrel of
                    whisky out of the boat and carried or rolled it into a thicket a short distance back from the river
                    bank. By some means he was discovered as the thief, or suspected. Proceedings were instituted
                    against him for the theft, and Amos Lane, then supposed to be the most able lawyer among us, was
                    employed  to defend him. He was acquitted and the fee that Lane
                    received for his services was the transfer of a certificate for the south half of a quarter section
                    of land lying on Plum creek, which Lane afterward sold to Amos Gilbert and is the land now owned and
                    occupied by Thomas Huffman.
            John James Dufour died in the spring of 1827, at his residence above Log Lick, leaving his property
                    to his only son, Daniel Vincent Dufour. Francis Louis Siebenthal died of a disease contracted in the
                    lower country, where he had gone with a boatload of produce, some time about the year 1824 or 1825.
                    His son, John Francis Siebenthal, died near 
                        Cincinnati
                    , about nine years since.
            The old gentleman Borallay died from the effects of the kick of a horse, some few years after coming
                    to this country. His widow lived to be a very old person. His son Peter died about the year 1854, on
                    the old homestead in Garrard county, 
                        Kentucky
                    . The daughter was married to a man named Mayfield, who removed to 
                        Monroe county
                     in this state, where she died, leaving quite a large family, some of whom are still
                    living in that county.
            Phillip Bettens lived and died on his farm just below 
                        Vevay
                    —the front part of the farm being now owned by his daughter, Mrs. Duplau, and
                    Samuel E. Pleasants. His wife died a few years after. His daughter, who married John Detraz, died
                    about three years since.
            Daniel Dufour died in the winter of 1854, lacking a few days of 90 years of age. His wife died in the
                    summer of 1865, aged about 88 years.
            John Francis Dufour died in June, 1850, having been taken ill during the sitting of the circuit
                    court, of which court he was, at the time, one of the associate judges.
            Jean Daniel Morerod was married to Antoinette Dufour, and they lived and died on their farm below 
                        Vevay
                    , on which John R. Morerod, their son, is now living. Mr. Morerod died about the year
                    1838, and Mrs. Morerod in the winter of 1857.
            Jane Maria Dufour married John Francis Siebenthal, and lived for many years on their farm, being the
                    one now owned by the widow and heirs of William Norrisey. Mrs. Siebenthal died in the neighborhood
                    of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , some years since, and shortly afterwards Mr. Siebenthal died.
            
            Susannah M. Dufour was married to Elisha Golay, and lived on their farm above Plum creek, until both
                    became of such age as to make it advisable for them to cease from the labors attendant on farming.
                    They lived with their son, Constant Golay. Mrs. Golay died in 1866, aged about 80 years, and her
                    husband died about one year afterwards, aged 83 past.
            One member of the Dufour family, Aime Dufour, who was quite young when the colonists left their
                    native country, was not permitted to accompany them on account of his being too young. After he had
                    grown up and completed his education, he came to this country in 1816, residing in this neighborhood
                    for some years, when he went to 
                        New Orleans
                    , and finally settled at Vermillionville, 
                        Louisiana
                    , where he was still residing about two years since.
            It is impossible to state with any degree of certainty the number of the descendants of the Dufour
                    family, but as near as can be ascertained at present, the number cannot be much under one hundred
                    and seventy-five or eighty.
            At this time there is no one of those who were grown at the time of their settling in the colony now
                    living, except the widow of John Francis Dufour, who is still living, and is near 80 years of age.
            The population of this part of the state during 1812, 1813 and 1814, commenced increasing
                    considerably. In 1812 the population within the present bounds of 
                        Switzerland
                     county was about 900; in 1813 at the time the town of 
                        Vevay
                     was laid out, it was about 1,000, and was mostly confined to the immediate vicinity of
                    the river and creek bottoms; in 1815 the population was ascertained to be 1,800 souls.
            The vineyards began to produce, and still more were being planted every year. The vintage of 1812
                    produced about 800 gallons more than that of 1810-the crop not being as good as it was in 1810. The
                    production continued increasing from year to year, until in 1818 the quantity of wine made by the
                    colonists was about seven thousand gallons. At the time of the greatest prosperity of the grape
                    culture, the number of acres in vines could not have been less than forty-five, and the quantity of
                    wine made about twelve thousand gallons.
            As the old persons began to decline in years, and were no longer able to attend to the vineyards, and
                    their children began  to take charge of these matters the culture
                    began to be neglected and their attention was turned more to raising corn and potatoes; so that at
                    this time there is but little wine made on the farms where such quantities were made in bygone
                    years.
            The vineyards were places of resort for those who visited this place; some, perhaps, from curiosity,
                    and others again with a view of having a wine party. On such occasions, frequently during the
                    sitting of the court, the lawyers and judges were in the habit of spending an evening or perhaps an
                    afternoon in quaffing some of "Father Morerod's" wine. Frequently on such
                    occasions some one of the company would perhaps indulge rather freely of the wine, so that it was
                    necessary for some one of his companions, and often two or three to assist him in getting to his
                    lodgings at the hotel.
            On some of these occasions the governors of Indiana, and the senators and representatives in congress
                    have been known to participate in these social gatherings, and in that manner the fame of "
                        Vevay
                     Wine" was spread abroad.
            During John James Dufour's absence in Europe, when writing to his brothers and sisters, he
                    would invariably urge them to be industrious in the management of their vineyards, and gave
                    directions about many of the particulars necessary to be observed to succeed in making good wine.
                    And in writing about the laying off the town, he was very solicitous about the manner in which it
                    should be done.
            The reason, no doubt, of his anxiety about the success of the colony in succeeding in their
                    undertaking, was that his father, when they left Europe, had entrusted the care of his children to
                    his eldest son. This was done by a writing, in which the father transferred his paternal care over
                    his children to his eldest son, John James Dufour; and by that writing it was enjoined upon the said
                    John James Dufour to learn them to be industrious, economical and sober, and see that they did not
                    become indolent, proud and haughty; and above all, that he should use his efforts to instruct and
                    persuade them as to the truths of the Christian religion, and for that purpose he was directed
                    fervently to pray the God of mercy, as he (the father) would also himself do, that He would open
                    their hearts  and consciences to the true Christian faith, as the
                    only means of making them happy in this world, and to assure true felicity in the life to come.
            In the spring of 1813, it having been decided by John Francis Dufour to lay off part of his land into
                    town lots, and as it was necessary to make the streets run as near at right angles with the river as
                    possible, it became necessary to run down on to Daniel Dufour's land a short distance, and
                    up on John James Dufour's land. The lots were laid off partly in the woods and partly in a
                    "deadening," as it was termed, the timber having been previously girdled. The town
                    plat was made out and recorded in the recorder's office of Jefferson county, at 
                        Madison
                    . Notice of the sale of the lots was inserted in papers published at
                            
                  Cincinnati, Lexington, Frankfort
               , and 
                        Louisville
                    , and the sale of the lots took place in October or November of the year 1813. The sale
                    was cried by one John M. Johnson, the clerk of the sale being Elisha Golay. At the sale many persons
                    from abroad purchased lots: Jeremiah Smock, of 
                        Fayette county
                    , Ky., purchased lot No. 135; Jacob Mikesell purchased lot No. 133; William Mcllvain,
                    lot No. 124; Peter Mikesell, lot No. 134; John Patterson, lot No. 129; John Hill, of Scott county,
                    Ky., lot No. 125; Joab 
                        Madison
                    , lot No. 152; Jesse Lamme, lots Nos. 165, 166, 167 and 168; John Scott, lots Nos. 85
                    and 87; Abner K. Starr, lots Nos. 123 and 183; Joseph Noble, lots Nos. 58 and 91; and many others,
                    too numerous to mention here. The prices of lots varied considerably-the lowest selling for
                    $22 and the highest for $92. The one sold for $22, was No. 26, and
                    the one sold for $92, being No. 66.
            During the spring and summer of 1814, buildings began to be put up in different parts of the town.
                    John Francis Dufour had the first house built after the town was laid out, on the lot where Charles
                    Thiebaud's brick building on Main street stands. It was built for him by Samuel 
                        Butler
                    , (now living near Plumb Creek bridge,) and his father. It was hewed or
                    "scutched," after it was raised. That same spring Joshua Jones, who had a set of
                    house logs hewed somewhere near Grant's creek, floated them down to 
                        Vevay
                     and put up a house of them on the lot now owned by James F. Bristow,  and commenced the manufacture of split-bottom chairs. John Scott, the
                    father-in-law of James Cole, built a house the same summer, on the lot corner of Main Cross and 
                        Pike
                     streets, opposite to Benjamin Schenck's dwelling, in which he lived several
                    years, and carried on his trade of tailor.
            During the spring of 1814, John Dumont came here and built a house on the spot where his present
                    brick building stands, where he has remained ever since.
            As the town of 
                        Vevay
                     had now become a fixed "institution," and the population of that
                    territory which was during the year organized into a county and named after the native country of
                    the proprietors, "
                        Switzerland
                    ," had augmented to about 1,600 souls, and was constantly augmenting, it became
                    necessary to have a county organized to suit the convenience of the citizens who were then compelled
                    to go from the extreme upper end of (now) 
                        Switzerland
                     county, at the mouth of Grant's creek, for all such business as had
                    necessarily to be transacted at the county seat to 
                        Madison
                    . In answer to an application of a number of citizens, by petition to the legislature of
                    the territory of Indiana, the county was organized. John Francis Dufour and Elisha Golay being the
                    most active and influential friends of the measure, attended the session of the legislature as lobby
                    members that year, and had the satisfaction of having their efforts crowned with success.
            During the fall of 1813, Robert Bakes came to 
                        Vevay
                     and established a carding machine on the lot corner of Main and Vineyard streets, now
                    owned and occupied by George W. Hathorn; and the following spring, James Rous, the father of Ladig
                    and Percy Rous, from representations made to him by Mr. Bakes, what a fine country it was, came to 
                        Vevay
                     and bought the lot immediately above the one owned by Mr. Bakes, on Vineyard street,
                    which lot is now owned by John 
                        Hamilton
                    . Bakes ran his carding machine in 
                        Vevay
                     for some years, when he built a mill on Long Run, where Siebenthal's mill now
                    stands; and Mr. Rous remained in 
                        Vevay
                     for some time, when he removed to the country and located on the farm which is now the
                    pauper farm. Mr. Bakes had his mill so arranged that he carded wool and ground grain; and Mr. Rous
                    built a horse mill on the top of the hill, near to Mr. Bakes. Often in  the summer and fall months, when there was not sufficient water to run
                    Bakes’ mill, Mr. Rous’ horse mill was running, and did all the neighborhood
                    grinding. Many times when clouds would rise, with the appearance of rain, they would seem to part to
                    the west of the mill, and no rain falling, gave the opportunity to Bakes or some other person who
                    wished to carry on a joke, for saying that Mr. Rous, by some necromancy, and raising a long pole,
                    would part the clouds and prevent the rain from falling to raise the run, and thereby Bakes could
                    not run his mill, so that Rous could have all the grinding to do on his horse mill.
            During the spring of 1814, John Francis Dufour commenced having logs hewed, with which to build a
                    house, which was built at the corner of Main-Cross and Market streets, and partly finished in the
                    fall; and was the same house that William Archer demolished last fall to make room for the frame he
                    has constructed in its stead. In that house the courts were held for a time, and for many years the
                    post office and clerk's office were kept in it. The courts were also held for a while at
                    the house of Robert M. Trotter, who was a relative of Gabriel Johnson, whose house was situated on
                    Main street, and occasionally at the house of Thomas Armstrong.
            The county of 
                        Switzerland
                     being organized, it became necessary to have officers to transact the business
                    necessary for the public interest, the maintenance of order, and the execution of the laws.
            The governor of the territory having the power of appointing all the necessary officers, both civil
                    and military, in the exercise of that power appointed the following named persons:
            For associate judges of the circuit court, William Cotton and James McClure; sheriff, John Francis
                    Siebenthal; coroner, Ralph Cotton; clerk, John Francis Dufour; county surveyor, Elisha Golay;
                    recorder, John Francis Dufour. The commissions are all dated the 15th of September, 1814, except
                    that of the recorder, which is dated 11th October, 1814, and are signed by Thomas Posey, as
                    governor, and John Gibson, as secretary.
            As a curiosity and a relic of the past, a copy of one of these commissions is here inserted and reads
                    as follows: 
                    
                        Thomas Posey, Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Indiana Territory. To all unto whom
                            these presents shall come-greeting:
                        Know you, that I have constituted and appointed, and by these presents constitute and appoint
                            Ralph Cotton, of the county of 
                                Switzerland
                            , gentleman, to be Coroner of our said county of 
                                Switzerland
                             during our pleasure; and do hereby authorize and empower him to do and perform
                            all and whatsoever to the office and duty of Coroner in our said county of 
                                Switzerland
                             doth any ways belong or appertain.
                        In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the Territory to be
                            affixed, at 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , in said Territory, the fifteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord one
                            thousand eight hundred and fourteen, and of the Independence of the 
                                United States
                             the thirty-ninth.
                        Th. Posey
                  
                        By the Governor:
                        Jn. Gibson, Secretary.
                  
                    
            
            The commissions of the other officers of the county were in the same words as the one to Ralph Cotton
                    as coroner, with the exception of the name of the person and of the office to which the person was
                    appointed. It now became necessary that the officers should be sworn into office, and as the laws in
                    force at that time seem to have been silent as to what officers were entitled or authorized to
                    administer such oaths, Governor Posey made the following appointment of a person to administer the
                    oath to the clerk: 
                        Thomas Posey, Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Indiana Territory: To William Cotton,
                            sends greeting:
                        Know ye that I have by these presents authorized you to administer the oaths of office as
                            ascribed by law, to John Francis Dufour, Clerk of the Circuit Court for the county of 
                                Switzerland
                            .
                        Given under my hand and the seal of the Territory of Indiana at 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , the sixteenth day of September, eighteen hundred and fourteen, and of the
                            Independence of the 
                                United States
                             the thirty-ninth.
                        Th. Posey
                  
                        By the Governor:
                        Jn. Gibson, Secretary.
                  
                    
            
            In compliance with the foregoing appointment, William Cotton administered the oath of office to John
                    Francis Dufour, as clerk, a certificate of which is on the back of the commission, and reads as
                    follows: 
                    
                        Indiana Territory, Switzerland County, SS:
                        The within named John Francis Dufour personally appeared before me and took the oath
                            prescribed by law, more effectually to prevent duelling, and the oath to support the
                            Constitution of the 
                                United States
                            , together with the oath of Clerk of the Circuit Court of the aforesaid county.
                        Given under my hand this 4th day of October, 1814.
                        Wm. Cotton
                  
                    
            
            Still the other county officers, and the judges and military officers were required to take an oath
                    as also one to prevent duelling, and to support the constitution and it would appear there was as
                    yet no officer or person authorized to administer the oath to the others and on the 15th of
                    September, 1814, Governor Posey made the following appointment: 
                        I, Thomas Posey, Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Indiana Territory: to John Francis
                            Dufour, sends greeting:
                        Know ye that I have by these presents authorized and empowered you to administer the oath or
                            oaths of offices, as ascribed by law, to all officers, civil and military, who are or may
                            hereafter be appointed for the county of 
                                Switzerland
                            .
                        Given under my hand and the seal of said territory at 
                                Jeffersonville
                             the 15th day of September, eighteen hundred and fourteen and of the
                            independence of the 
                                United States
                             the thirty-ninth.
                        Thomas Posey
                  
                        By the Governor: Jn. Gibson,Secretary.
                  
                    
            
            Under this appointment the oath of office was administered to all the officers both civil and
                    military, and the county business whatever that might be, could now be administered according to
                    law.
            The county seat had not been established and no place for holding the courts, had been selected. This
                    selection, it would seem, belonged to the county to determine, until such time as a permanent seat
                    of justice should be created, according to law. Provisions for that purpose were made by a law of
                    the territory passed in 1813, prescribing the manner of establishing seats of justice in newly
                    organized counties. The associate judges of the counties constituted the county court, and had the
                    transaction of the county business entrusted by law to them. The same duties pertained to them as
                    now pertain to our present boards of county commissioners.
            
            The territorial legislature, in the act organizing the county of 
                        Switzerland
                    , named persons as commissioners to locate the seat of justice for the county. The names
                    of three of the commissioners only are known. The three who performed the duties required were Jesse
                    L. Holman, the father of Hon. Wm. S. Holman, our representative in congress at the present time;
                    Joseph Short, the father of Jesse V. Short, who resided among us for a length of time, and Alexander
                    A. Meek, a lawyer who resided in 
                        Madison
                     for some years afterwards until his death.
            The three commissioners above named met on the 17th day of October, 1814, in the town of 
                        Vevay
                    , for the purpose of selecting the most eligible place for the seat of justice of said
                    county, and to receive any proposals and donations which might be made for the benefit of the
                    county.
            The donations offered by the proprietor of the town of 
                        Vevay
                     and the citizens particularly interested in having the seat of justice established here
                    made proposals to the commissioners to induce them to locate said county seat at 
                        Vevay
                    , some of them as follows: 
                        The subscriber hereby offers to the commissioners appointed for locating the seat of justice
                            of the county, to give to said county in the town of 
                                Vevay
                            , and marked on the plat of said town the Public Square, containing two acres of
                            land, for the purpose of erecting the public buildings thereon, provided the seat of justice
                            for said county be fixed on said square. He also offers a subscription in the name of the
                            subscribers thereto, to the amount of upwards of two thousand four hundred dollars, and lot
                            No. 92 in said town, which he respectfully submits to their consideration.
                        John Francis Dufour
                  
                    
                    
                        Vevay, Oct. 13, 1814.
                        I further promise to use my best endeavors to procure more subscribers to the aforesaid
                            subscription paper, which I expect to obtain to a considerable amount.
                        John Francis Dufour
                  
                    
                    
                        In addition to the within proposals, we jointly agree and obligate ourselves to have conveyed
                            to the agent of this county, to be appointed by the Court of said county of 
                                Switzerland
                            , the in lots numbered thirty-three and sixty.
                        Dl. Dufour Blane
                  
                        John Francis Dufour
                  
                    
            
            
            George G. 
                        Knox
                    , who had purchased a lot in 
                        Vevay
                    , but who was still residing at 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               , proposed
                    to give fifty dollars in carpenter's work, or ten dollars in cash.
            As a further inducement for the commissioners to locate the seat of justice at 
                        Vevay
                    , Daniel Dufour Blane and John Francis Dufour gave the following obligations: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Switzerland County,
                           
                                    October 28th,1814.
                                
                        We, the subscribers oblige ourselves, our heirs, and executors that we will be
                                    accountable to the agent that may be appointed by the court, in and for said county
                                    to pay and guarantee to him for the use of said county, the payment of two thousand
                                    five hundred dollars, on account of the subscription referred to within, on this
                                    condition, that is to say, that the seat of justice for said county shall be placed
                                    at 
                                        Vevay
                                    , in said county. Witness our hands and seals the day aforesaid.
                        
                                    Daniel Dufour Blane
                           
                                    John Francis Dufour
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Benjamin Drake, who owned the land where the town of Florence now stands, made a proposition to the
                    commissioners, provided the seat of justice was established on fractional section No. 6, town, 2,
                    range 1 west.
            As it was not convenient for the commissioners to pursue the object of their meeting further at that
                    time, they postponed a further examination until the 26th of October, and appointed their meeting on
                    that day at the house of Benjamin Drake.
            A proposition was also made by parties living in what is now known as 
                        Egypt
                     Bottom, for the location of the seat of justice of the county on fractional section No.
                    35 town 2, range 1 west, which is two and a half or three miles above the mouth of Bryant's
                    creek.
            A proposition was also submitted to the commissioners for the location of the seat of justice on
                    fractional section No. 3 town 2, range 2 west.
            In the next number a copy of all the propositions made to the commissioners to induce them to locate
                    the seat of justice at the several different points proposed, will be given if they can possibly be
                    procured.
            The first meeting of the county court in and for the county was held for the purpose of receiving the
                    report of the commissioners, and is thus entered on the records, which being  the first records of the county court, is a book consisting of simply
                    about one-half quire of common foolscap paper, and unruled: 
                        At a special county court, began and held at the house of Robert M.Trotter, in the town of 
                                Vevay
                            , in and for 
                                Switzerland
                             county, on Friday the 28th day of October, 1814: Present the Honorable William
                            Cotton and James McClure, associate judges of the circuit court for said county, and
                            authorized to transact county business.
                        Jesse L. Holman presented to the court the following report, to wit: To the Honorable Judges
                            of the Circuit Court of 
                                Switzerland
                             County: We, the undersigned, three of the commissioners appointed by the
                            legislature of Indiana territory, for the purpose of fixing the seat of justice in and for
                            the county of 
                                Switzerland
                            , met agreeably to the law establishing the county of 
                                Switzerland
                            , in the town of 
                                Vevay
                            , in said county, on the 17th day of October, 1814, and being first duly sworn
                            proceeded to examine the most eligible place for the seat of justice in said county, and to
                            receive any proposals and donations which might be made for the benefit of said county; when
                            the proposed donations marked A, Aa, and Aaa, were made by the citizens of 
                                Vevay
                            , provided the seat of justice should be established in said town; and the
                            proposed donation marked B, was made by Benjamin Drake, provided the seat of justice was
                            established on fraction 6, town 2, range 1, west; and it being inconvenient to pursue the
                            object of our meeting further at present, we postponed a further examination until Wednesday
                            the 26th instant, and appointed the house of Benjamin Drake as the place of our meeting on
                            the last named day.
                        Wednesday, October 26th, 1814. Agreeably to our former determination, we met on this day at
                            the house of Benjamin Drake in said county when and where we received the proposed donation
                            marked C, provided the seat of justice was fixed on fraction 35, town 2, range 1, west; and
                            marked D and E, provided said seat of justice was fixed on fraction 3, town 2, range 2,
                            west; and the additional proposed donations marked F, provided said seat of justice was
                            fixed on fraction 6, town 2, range 1, aforesaid.
                        Whereupon on Thursday, the 27th of October 1814 we proceeded to examine the places above
                            proposed (except the fraction 35 aforesaid which, from its extreme southeastwardly
                            situation, we considered as entirely ineligible), and also to examine the boundaries, the
                            land, and the central parts of said county, and taking into consideration the extent of the
                            county, the quality of the land, and the prospect of the future, as well as the weight of
                            present population, together with the probability of future divisions, we have fixed upon
                            the Public Square in the town of 
                                Vevay
                            , in fractions 23 and 14, in town 2, range 3, west, as the most eligible place
                            for the permanent seat of justice of said county, and do hereby declare that it is our
                            opinion, judgment and determination that the seat of justice for said county be fixed and
                                 remain permanently at the place aforesaid. Given
                            under our hands and seals at 
                                Vevay
                            , this 28th day of October, 1814.
                        Commissioners fees, to-wit: J. Short, six days; J. L. Holman, seven days; A. A. Meek, seven
                            days.
                        Jacob Short
                  
                        Jesse L. Holman
                  
                        Alex. A. M
                    
            
            The court on the next day made an order dividing the county into townships, as follows: 
                        Ordered that this county be divided into two townships, as follows to wit: that all that part
                            of this county lying east of the section line which begins on the 
                                Ohio
                             river at the corners of fractional sections 8 and 9, and runs north to the
                            boundary of this county at the corner of sections 21 and 29, in town 3, range 2, west,
                            compose one township, to be known by the name of Posey; and that all that part which lies
                            west of the aforesaid line, compose one township, to be known by the name of Jefferson.
                    
            
            The court also ordered that the place of holding elections in Posey township be at the house of Lewis
                    Jones, in said township; and that the place of holding elections in Jefferson township, should be at
                    the house of Robert M. Trotter, in the town of 
                        Vevay
                    , in said township.
            The court also ordered that William Pierson be appointed superintendent of elections in the township
                    of Posey, and that John Dumont be appointed superintendent of elections in the township of
                    Jefferson.
            The court appointed Robert Cotton, a brother of Judge William Cotton, Charles F. Krutz, the father of
                    William G. Krutz, now of Florence, and Joseph Noble, father of Charles, Lewis and Oliver Noble, of
                    this place, as constables for Jefferson township.
            William 
                        Campbell
                    , the father of Mrs. Samuel Protsman and of Mrs. William Protsman, and whose widow is
                    now living with her daughter, Mrs. William Protsman, and Caleb Mounts, were recommended by the court
                    to the governor as proper persons for the office of justices of the peace for Posey township; and
                    George H. Kyle, was recommended by the court to the governor, to be reappointed justice of the peace
                    for the lower end of Jefferson township.
            
            Elisha Golay, who had ben appointed county surveyor by the governor, having declined to accept the
                    appointment, the court recommended John Gilliland as a proper person to fill that office.
            On the 25th of November, 1814, the court, according to the provisions of an act of the territorial
                    legislature, approved March 2d, 1813, entitled "An act for fixing the seats of justice in
                    all new counties hereafter to be laid off," appointed Elisha Golay agent for the county;
                    and at the same time the court instructed the county agent thus appointed, "to cause a jail
                    house to be built on the corner of lot No. 60, in the town of 
                        Vevay
                    ," which jail was built, and on the 30th of March, 1815, the court directed
                    that the said county agent "pay to Hiram Ogle the sum of money which, as agent of the
                    county, he is bound to pay him for building a jail house in the town of 
                        Vevay
                    , in and for said county." The jail thus built was of hewed logs about one foot
                    square, one story high, and stood where the stone blacksmith shop occupied by Joseph 
                        Rutherford
                    , now stands.
            When the court met on the 3d of May, 1815, it appears that there had not been as yet any necessity
                    for using the jail, unless it was used without lock and key, for the county agent was directed to
                        
                        procure a strong lock for the jail, also a strong padlock, and cause them to be put on the
                            doors of said jail, also a common double padlock for the gable-end door.
                    
            
            Said county agent was also instructed 
                        to cause the corners of the jail house to be cut down, and also such trees as are in danger
                            of falling on said house and pay for the same out of any money which may come to his hands,
                            belonging to the county.
                    
            
            Persons at this day might probably suppose that there was not much use in putting a criminal into
                    such a jail, with only a strong lock and padlock to keep those confined therein from making their
                    escape. And they might also wonder why it was ordered to cut down the corners of the jail after it
                    was built. In raising log houses in those days, the ends of the logs projected nearly one foot and
                    it was the cutting off the ends of these projections which is meant by having the "corners
                    of the jail cut down."
            
            Some years after that jail was in use, a prisoner was confined therein, having friends outside to
                    assist him, who gave him a saw, with which, during the night he sawed off a log, slipped it out, and
                    thereby made an opening large enough for him to make his escape. Afterwards another prisoner, named
                    Thomas Coen, was confined for some violation of the law and he, to free himself from
                    "durance vile," as attorneys say, set fire to the jail, made his escape, and
                    perched himself on the top of the hill above where the woolen factory now stands, and remained there
                    until the place of his recent confinement was entirely reduced to ashes.
            At a meeting of the court on the 30th of March, 1814, Elisha Golay, agent for the county, was
                    directed to 
                        cause to be advertised in the 
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Reporter, Liberty Hall, and Western Eagle, at 
                                Madison
                            , that on Tuesday, the second day of May, 1814, there would be let to the lowest
                            bidder the building of a brick court house on the public square of the town of 
                                Vevay
                            , Ind. Ter.; said house to be two stories high, thirty-six feet long, and thirty
                            feet wide; the first story twelve feet between floors, and the second ten; and that on that
                            day a plan of the building will be exhibited, and further conditions made known.
                    
            
            On the 2d of May, 1814, the court met and were engaged most of the day in arranging a plan for said
                    building, when it was thought advisable to alter the dimensions, which had been previously agreed
                    upon, so as to make the house thirty-six by thirty-two; and after having agreed upon the plan,
                    Elisha Golay, agent for the county, was ordered to proceed to the letting the building of said house
                    to the lowest bidder, when it was struck off to John Tandy of Gallatin county, 
                        Kentucky
                    , at the sum of $1705. Then it was ordered that Major Elisha Golay, agent for
                    the county, proceed to let the clearing of the public square to the lowest bidder when it was struck
                    off to Samuel Davies, at the sum of twenty-six dollars and seventy-five cents.
            The court house was not finished so as to be used until perhaps in 1816. Stephen C. Stevens was
                    appointed by the court to have the bar in the court properly arranged.
            The citizens of the young town of 
                        Vevay
                     at its first settlement formed a literary society, and had by purchase, donations, and
                    otherwise, collected together quite a well selected  library.
                    This society was composed of members who paid a certain amount into the treasury annually, which
                    amounts were expended for the purchase of books. In November, 1814, the president and directors of
                    the society appointed John Francis Dufour to solicit donations. The following appointment was given
                    him by the officers: 
                        The president and directors of the Literary Society of 
                                Vevay
                             being anxious as far as in their power to place instruction within the reach of
                            the rising generation, and considering their contracted funds, do hereby solicit the
                            patronage of literary characters who feel a spirit of benevolence towards our infant
                            institution. We therefore do hereby authorize John Francis Dufour to receive donations in
                            books and other things for said society, and we pledge ourselves that all donations shall be
                            recorded in our society journal.
                        John Dumont, Pres't
                  
                        George Coggshell
                  
                        Robt. T. Trotter
                  
                        Dufour Blane
                  
                        
                            Director
                        
                        
                     
                                Vevay
                            , 5th Nov., 1814.
                    
            
            Under this appointment Mr. Dufour, at one time, obtained donations of books from some of his
                    acquaintances at 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , and perhaps some from individuals in
                            
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               .
            The library collected by this society was much used by the citizens of 
                        Vevay
                     and vicinity, until about the year 1829 or 1830. It was last in the possesion of James
                    Rous after he removed from his farm to 
                        Vevay
                    , about the year 1832 or 1833, and it is presumed what is left of it may be in the
                    possession of one of his sons.
            Of the in-lots laid out in 1813, eight were reserved and donated to the Seminary of 
                        Vevay
                    , which was afterwards, in 1816 incorporated by the legislature. On one of these lots a
                    log school house was built in the fall of 1815, in which a school was maintained and kept up for
                    some years. This house stood on the lot now owned in part by Joseph Peelman, on Ferry street, on the
                    spot where said Peelman's brick dwelling stands. These lots, after the introduction of our
                    present common school system, were, by the common consent of the donor, John Francis Dufour, the
                    trustees of the town and citizens, disposed of, and the proceeds merged into the common  school fund, in the building of a school house, and afterwards used in
                    aid of the building of our present public school building.
            During the summer of 1814, the town and the surrounding country commenced improving quite rapidly.
                    There was in the town several stores, two or three taverns, two or three blacksmith shops, one or
                    two tailors, a chair factory, and a manufactory of large and small wheels for spinning and reels.
                    But still the country was new and very sparsely settled, for wolves were so plentiful and
                    troublesome that the territorial legislature had passed a law giving a bounty of one dollar for each
                    wolf scalp, that the person claiming the bounty, should prove to the satisfaction of the county
                    agent he or she had killed. Under this law an allowance was made in 1815, as follows: 
                        Elizabeth Jones is allowed one dollar for the scalp of a wolf killed by her in 1814.
                    
            
            It is related that on one occasion Heathcoat Picket and his brother James had gone on a ridge west of 
                        Jacksonville
                    , near where there was a bear wallow, for the purpose of killing deer. Heathcoat went on
                    one ridge and James on another, thinking to chase the deer, from one ridge to the other. While thus
                    separated, James was surrounded by a pack of wolves, which commenced their howling, with their head
                    raised up, as if looking at something in the tops of the trees. Heathcoat hearing this barking or
                    howling, went over to where James was, to see what caused such a howling, when he beheld the wolves
                    around James, and James looking up into the tree tops as if trying to see what the wolves were
                    barking at. When Heathcoat came where James was, he asked James what all this meant. James replied
                    "these dogs have treed something. See how they bark at it." James had taken this
                    pack of wolves for dogs.
            Sometime in the fall of 1814, the news of McDonough's victory over the British on Lake
                    Champlain was received by the citizens of the young town of 
                        Vevay
                    , who, to show their joy at the reception of the news of the victory, decided to have an
                    illumination of the town. Every house, in fact, every window  in
                    every house, was as brilliantly illuminated as could be with common tallow candles.
            From the first settling of New 
                        Switzerland
                    , until in 1814 and perhaps later, there were but few ministers of the Gospel in this
                    region of country. Until there were ministers to preach the Gospel it was the custom among the Swiss
                    colonists to meet together on the Sabbath and engage in singing psalms, reading prayers, and
                    sermons, which was continued for many years.
            Occasionally, John Price, who resided on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of the 
                        Ohio
                    , above Carrollton, Mordecai Jackson, who also lived in 
                        Kentucky
                     above Ghent, and father of Ibzan Jackson, who now resides on Bryant's creek,
                    above Florence, would be on this side of the river and would preach. They were both of the Baptist
                    persuasion. Sometimes one of the Vawters, of whom mention is made in a former number, preached in
                    this vicinity.
            Among the early settlers in the upper part of the county may be named George Wade, the Vandoven
                    family, Benjamin Drake, Lewis Jones, John Kilgore, William Pierson, William 
                        Campbell
                    , Caleb Mounts, Robert Gullion, Amos A. 
                        Brown
                    , John Neal, Job Trusdell, Charles 
                        Campbell
                    , James Trusdell, William Johnson, Elisha Wade, Peter Lostutter, William White, the
                    Wallicks, McCrearys, McCorkles, Ezekiel and Joshua Petty, and James McClure.
            It would be quite an undertaking to give the names of all those who resided in the bounds of 
                        Switzerland
                     county in 1814.
            (To Be Continued)
         
         
         
            Phases of Southeastern Indiana History
            Miss Vida Newsom, 
                        Columbus
                    .
            (Presented at a meeting of the 
                        Jennings County
                     Historical society, August 19, 1922, on occasion of Vernon Homecoming.)
            It has been interesting to learn something of the accomplishments and plans for future usefulness of
                    your county historical society. The history of Jennings county, in general, is more or less
                    characteristic of that of other counties in this vicinity and of the entire state. There are,
                    however, several outstanding historical features in this section of Indiana, which were of such
                    considerable significance in the making of our great state, which entered so forcibly into the
                    lives, the early struggles and hardships of our forebears, the pioneers, that they well deserve
                    special mention on this occasion.
            The topic assigned me for discussion, "Phases of Southeastern Indiana History",
                    affords a wealth of material. So numerous are the aspects of history that have contributed to the
                    development of our great commonweealth in Southeastern Indiana alone, that it would seem that we of
                    this generation have, indeed, come a long way, and I have realized anew in making this study, and
                    perhaps more forcibly than ever before, how much we owe to future generations if we are to prove
                    worthy of the trust that has been imposed upon us by our ancestors, the Indiana pioneers.
            But in any retrospective glance of this subject our attention usually reverts, first of all, to the
                    aboriginal inhabitants of this country, to the American Indian. If we are kindly disposed and just
                    in this reflection we think of him first in his native state, before he was confronted with the
                    necessity of battling for his home as a result of the coming of the white man who was ever
                    encroaching upon his territory. As our thoughts revert to the Indian, we most naturally, however,
                         recall stories of the Indian wars-of the tomahawk and
                    knife-but may we not consider him for a moment as he roamed through the forest, along the streams,
                    in search of his daily food, and as he peacefully worshipped the Great Mystery at sunrise or sunset,
                    alone and in silence, on the crest of a cliff or upon the mountain top, in the waterfall, the
                    thunderstorm, the winds. Few of the many Indiana historians have even alluded to this phase of the
                    Indian's life and it has remained for some of the educated Indians, themselves, as Dr.
                    Charles A. Eastman, to reveal in the most forceful manner something of the Soul of the Indian in his
                    book of that title in which he has portrayed the religious life of the typical American Indian
                    before he knew the white man.
            The dominance of the Indian in the earliest history of Southeastern Indiana and of the entire state
                    is familiar to everyone. While in some sections of our state from which counties have been erected,
                    we read of the peaceful characteristics of the Indians toward the white man and the readiness with
                    which they gave up their lands, in many parts of the territory which later became Indiana the
                    Indians were hostile to the white man, and there is ample evidence of the fact that this attitude
                    pretty generally prevailed in Southeastern Indiana.
            The Indian tribes within the limits of the present state consisted mainly of the Miami Confederacy,
                    the Pottawattomies and the Delawares. The Miamis, at the Greenville treaty of 1795, through Little
                    Turtle, their spokesman, claimed to have held from time immemorial a large territory that included
                    all of Indiana. Such other tribes as occupied any part of that region seem to have done so by
                    invitation or sufferance of the Miamis. The towns of what was known as the Miami federation were
                    mostly along the 
                        Wabash
                    , from the site of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    , each of the various subtribes having its own locality.
            The Pottawattomies occupied that part of the state lying north and northwest of the Miami country, as
                    far eastward as the headwaters of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and Eel rivers and the Delawares had the White River valley, their
                    most eastern town standing where 
                        Muncie
                     now is. The south part of the  territory east of the 
                        Wabash
                     is said to have been common hunting ground. Although there were aboriginal villages
                    here and there throughout that region, whether these were in any sense permanent or other than
                    villages of hunting parties is not established.
            William Henry Harrison, under instructions of President Jefferson, pushed his efforts to extinguish
                    the Indian title along the 
                        Ohio
                     river below the mouth of the 
                        Kentucky
                     river, and on August 16, 1804, by treaty, obtained title to all lands between the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     rivers south of the line from 
                        Vincennes
                     to the 
                        Ohio
                     Falls. In this treaty, the claims of the 
                        Delaware
                     tribes were recognized for all lands between White river and the 
                        Ohio
                     river. It was not until fourteen years later, however, that the lands of the Delawares,
                    which embraced all of central Indiana as well as the southeastern part of the state, were ceded to
                    the 
                        United States
                    . This treaty was effectd at St. Mary's, 
                        Ohio
                    , on October 2, 3 and 6, 1818. Then and there, the celebrated peace and friendship
                    treaties were made with the Pottawattomies, Delawares and Miamis, which opened up by its provisions
                    the state of Indiana for entry and settlement. The treaties were made between the tribes and
                    Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Parke, commissioners for the 
                        United States
                    . Attached to the 
                        Delaware
                     treaty are the signatures of thirteen representatives of the U. S., besides the three
                    commissioners, and seventeen 
                        Delaware
                     chiefs (by mark).
            So much, briefly, for the abstract of title to the Indian lands now comprised in Southeastern
                    Indiana, which territory we have designated in this study by imaginary lines drawn from our capital
                    city, directly eastward to the Indiana state line and southward to the 
                        Ohio
                     river, and now for the relation of a few facts of the history-making in this territory
                    by its pioneers.
            Just what the home-coming program committee may have wished to have stressed in the assignment of
                    this topic was not intimated, and it is possible that some Phases of Southeastern Indiana History,
                    which should be included in such a discussion, will have been omitted. If so, we trust you will not
                    hesitate to call attention to them later. In treating this 
                    subject we have selected certain salient historical features and attempted to group them, somewhat,
                    and arrange all as nearly as possible in chronological order. Some of these phases are touched upon
                    so briefly that they might seem more appropriately labeled as glimpses of history, but which are,
                    nevertheless, essential in any general conception of the elements that have entered into the making
                    of this part of the state, a revival of which in our memory should be most wholesome and
                    inspirational in this home-coming program.
            1. At the outset, and in any adequate survey of the history of this section, we should take due
                    cognizance of the French explorations of the 
                        Mississippi
                     valley and La Salle, the first white man in this region, and who probably traced the
                    entire lower boundary of Indiana in 1669—1670, by way of the 
                        Ohio
                     river, passing through the northwest corner of the state in 1671 or 1672. While there
                    is no recorded exploration of Indiana following that period, it is argued that in that interval more
                    or less fur trading was carried on in this region.
            We must pay tribute to the courage and wisdom of Colonel George Rogers Clark, and take note of his
                    conquest of the Northwest Territory, whose second military base of operations was at the Falls of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     and whose route to the 
                        Illinois
                     country and Post 
                        Vincennes
                     was from this base along the 
                        Ohio
                     westward. This base of operations was on a long, narrow island known as Corn Island,
                    that then lay above the Falls where the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     railroad bridge now spans the river. This island was then covered with timber, but the
                    timber was later removed and the island is now washed away. Reasons for that location were that it
                    furnished better protection from the Indians.
            It was gratifying to note, some two months since, an account of the dedication of a monument to
                    George Rogers Clark, erected near the city of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . While some local patriotic organizations had an active part in the placing of this
                    marker, it was due in part to the Indiana Historical commission. This body is charged under act of
                    the legislature, appropriating $15,000 for the purpose, with the task of placing such
                    historical tributes, and George Rogers Clark  was chosen first
                    because he is a national figure as well as a state hero. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News of June 24, 1922, stated that the marker was placed by the Ann Rogers Clark
                    chapter, Daughters of the American Revolution, of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    ; the Indiana Sons of the Revolution, and the Indiana Historical commission. The
                    commission meets the cost of the tablet and the D. A. R. chapter, aided by its friends, is meeting
                    all other expenses, including provision of the stone, which weighs six tons and is of 
                        Bedford
                     limestone standing in all six feet high.
            2. A phase of Southeastern Indiana History, which all will concede is of outstanding significance,
                    and preeminence, and of deep concern to every loyal Hoosier, is that pertaining to
                    Indiana's birthplace. For it was in southeastern Indiana, in Harrison county, at Old
                    Corydon, that the state of Indiana came into being, and Corydon, the county seat of Harrison county,
                    became the first state capital of Indiana. Much interest will ever center around this historical
                    land-mark.
            It was at Corydon, too, that the first constitution of Indiana was formed and adopted. It was here
                    that our first statesmen met and enacted many laws that were to govern a great people. It was here
                    that the foundation was laid for a state that was destined to produce many great men and women.
            William H. Roose, from whose valuable book Indiana's Birthplace, we have
                    secured much information, has enumerated a number of distinguished men who either lived in Corydon
                    or whose acquaintance extended into Harrison county in the early days, the most renowned of whom was
                    William Henry Harrison, the general, for whom Harrison county was named.
            William Henry Harrison was born in Berkely, 
                        Virginia
                    , February 9, 1773. He entered the army early and was appointed secretary of the
                    Northwest territory. On May 13, 1800, he was appointed governor of Indiana territory. On January 10,
                    1801, he took charge of the office at 
                        Vincennes
                    , which was then the territorial capital. He remained in charge of the executive
                    department of the territory until September, 1812, when he was appointed a brigadier general and
                    assigned to the command of the northwest frontier. He was  the
                    ninth president of the 
                        United States
                    . General Harrison, in 1807, entered a tract of land on Blue river. He there set out a
                    large apple orchard, some of the trees of which, it is said, are still standing to mark the spot
                    where a president of the 
                        United States
                     once lived. [?] He was in every sense a man of the people and was known
                    among the early settlers far and near as "Bill" Harrison. [?]
            Names of others whose duties brought them to Harrison county, were Jonathan Jennings, president of
                    the constitutional convention and the first governor of Indiana, William H. Hendricks, secretary of
                    the convention, and, later, governor of Indiana, state treasurer, Samuel Merrill, secretary of
                    state, Robert A. New, and Judges Benjamin Parke, James Scott and John Johnson. Others mentioned were
                    Gen. Walter Q. Gresham, U. S. judge for the district of Indiana, John 
                        Tipton
                    , Dennis Pennington, Daniel 
                        Boone
                    , Patrick Shields, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , etc., and there appeared also the name of Mrs. Julia Fried Walker, a teacher and
                    institute lecturer of more than state wide reputation.
            Much has been recorded of the history of Old Corydon which must necessarily be excluded from a
                    discussion of limited scope, but we were interested to note in the accounts of public buildings
                    erected, in regard to the building of a stray pen, it was stated that the contract price of
                    $33.75 was proof that public graft was unknown in Harrison county in 1810, and that the
                    first squandering of public funds and accusation of public graft in Harrison county occurred while
                    Henry W. Heth was clerk. He was charged with giving away English quills to the school children. The
                    English quills were said to be much better than ordinary quills for pens. Mr. Heth's
                    extravagance, which caused the sensation, probably cost the county during a period of several years
                    as much as two dollars.
            A few of the important facts of this epochal period of our state's history, which are
                    inseparably connected with Indiana's birthplace, are as follows:
            By an act of the General Assembly of Indiana territory, at 
                        Vincennes
                    , which was approved on the 11th day of March, 1813, the seat of government of the
                    territory was fixed at  Corydon, Harrison county, "from
                    and after the first day of May, 1813."
            In conformity with a joint resolution of both houses of the General Assembly of the territory, Acting
                    Governor Gibson prorogued them to meet at Corydon on the first day of December, 1813.
            The General Assembly of Indiana territory which met at Corydon on the first Monday in December, 1815,
                    adopted a memorial which was presented to congress by the territorial delegate, Jonathan Jennings,
                    on the 28th day of the same month, providing that when there shall be 60,000 inhabitants therein the
                    territory shall be admitted to the Union on an equal footing with the original states. The senate
                    and house of representatives in congress were asked to order an election for representatives to meet
                    in convention at the seat of government of this territory to determine the advisability of going
                    into a state government. The memorial was referred to a committee of which Jonathan Jennings, the
                    delegate from Indiana territory, was the chairman; and on the 6th day of January, 1816, this
                    gentleman reported to the house of representatives, a bill to enable the people of Indiana territory
                    to form a constitution and state government, and for the admission of such state into the Union on
                    equal footing with the original states. This bill, after having been amended in some particulars,
                    was passed by congress and became a law by the approval of the president of the 
                        United States
                    , on April 19, 1816.
            Almost two months later, on the 10th of June, 1816, those pioneer delegates met in convention at
                    Corydon, but rather than be seated in the commodious room of the capitol building, during the warm
                    June days, they betook themselves to the inviting shade of a huge elm tree near the banks of Big
                    Indian creek, where they drafted a Constitution for a state that was destined to become one of the
                    greatest commonwealths of the nation. Unquestionably there is no more honored and revered landmark
                    in the state today than this marvelous, old Constitutional Elm.
            In concluding this subdivision of the general topic, let us recall that the territorial government
                    was superseded by  a state government on the 7th of November,
                    1816, and the state of Indiana formally admitted to the Union, by a joint resolution of congress,
                    approved on December 11, 1816; and that Corydon remained the territorial and state capital from the
                    1st of December, 1813 until January 10, 1825.
            3. The Indian wars and General 
                        Tipton
                    , who participated so whole-heartedly and courageously in these wars, constitute a
                    portentious aspect of Southeastern Indian History.
            One factor in our Indian troubles from the beginning was the encouragement offered the savages by the
                    British in 
                        Canada
                    . 
                        England
                     had never reconciled herself to the occupancy by the Americans of this territory
                    wrested from her by George Rogers Clark, and it is an established charge in our histories that even
                    during the period of peace between the nations, the Indians of the northwest received their arms and
                    ammunitions from our old time foe and were secretly backed up in their hostilities. When the brewing
                    troubles between America and 
                        England
                     culminated in war in June, 1812, 
                        England
                     found ready allies among the red people, notwithstanding the fact that as late as May
                    of that year, at a grand council on the Mississinewa, the majority of the tribes professed a desire
                    for peace with the 
                        United States
                    .
            While historical records, particularly 
                        Tipton
                    's journals, note many terrifying experiences and skirmishes with the Indians
                    in this section of the state, by far the most ominous of these was that known as the Pigeon Roost
                    Massacre. In 1812 there were several attacks by the Indians on the numerous blockhouses which had
                    been erected for fortifications of the settlers, but usually the marauders would attack individuals
                    and sometimes families. What was known as the Pigeon Roost settlement consisted of several families
                    that made a little community in Clark, now Scott county. This settlement was confined to about a
                    square mile of territory and was separated from any other by several miles.
            On the afternoon of September 3, 1812, two men, Jeremiah Payne and Isaac Coffman, were out hunting
                    bee trees about two miles north of the Pigeon Roost settlement, when they were surprised by a band
                    of a dozen Shawnee [?] warriors, and both were killed and scalped. The Indians then,  about sunset, advanced upon the settlement, and within the space
                    of an hour murdered one man, five women and sixteen children and burned their cabins. Some of the
                    Clark county militiamen gathered at the scene of the massacre, found the dead in the smoking ruins,
                    gathered them together and burried them in a single grave.
            About 150 riflemen under the command of Major John McCoy, the next day, followed the trail of the
                    retreating savages northward for twenty miles to the Muscatatuck where were found some of the
                    straggling Indians. When the stragglers were discovered the officer in command ordered the bugle to
                    be sounded, whereupon the Shawnees took warning and escaped through the river bottoms in the thick
                    woods and underbrush and under the pursuit of the scouts. Mr. George Pence further relates that
                    Colonel 
                        Bartholomew
                     was away from home at that time, much to the regret of the militiamen, else the pursuit
                    of the marauders might have had a different ending.
            Those who had made settlement elsewhere in this locality were in dread, even three months before the
                    Pigeon Roost affair. 
                        Tipton
                    's journal records that Capt. Zenor and himself "received letters from
                    a number of citizens" on the Driftwood fork of White river requesting them to
                    "come and fetch a company" to guard them from the Indians and partake of a dinner
                    on the Fourth of July, which protection they promptly rendered. He also gives an account of
                    assistance given the Vallonia settlement while engaged in harvesting their flax, on which occasion,
                    however, no Indians appeared.
            On April 24, 1813, Major 
                        Tipton
                    , later lieutenant colonel, then in command of the militia stations on the frontier of
                    Harrison and Clark counties, reported to Governor Gibson, acting governor of Indiana territory, who
                    had made inquiry as to his success, as follows: 
                        On the 18th of March one man was killed and three wounded near this place at that time I was
                            not here On my arrival I took twenty-nine men went up Driftwood River twenty-five miles I
                            met a party of Indians on an island in the river a smart Skirmish took place and in twenty
                            minutes I defeated them killed one dead on the ground and saw some sink in the river and I
                            believe all that made their escape by swimming the river, if done so, lost their guns I lost
                            no men killed or wounded.
                    
            
            
            This "skirmish" is now locally known as the "Battle of 
                        Tipton
                    's Island", and it occurred some fifteen miles down the Driftwood,
                    below 
                        Columbus
                    . Mr. Pence relates that the late Dr. John 
                        Tipton
                     Shields, of Seymour, a kinsman of his namesake, in 1894, related to him an incident
                    which occurred in connection with this skirmish, as follows: 
                        
                     
                                Tipton
                             had struck the trail of the Indians in Rapp's bottoms, some two miles
                            north-east of Seymour, when he gave the command for complete silence in the ranks. As they
                            were sleuthing on the trail one of the biggest men in the company was heard talking. 
                                Tipton
                             reprimanded the fellow and again the big strapping fellow was heard talking. 
                                Tipton
                             halted the man, tied him to a tree in the tall horse weeds, where he was
                            compelled to stay two hours in deadly fright, while the battle lasted, when men were sent to
                            cut his thongs, which released him.
                    
            
            John 
                        Tipton
                    , pioneer Indian fighter, soldier, legislator and 
                        United States
                     senator, was a striking example of a certain type that has impressed itself upon the
                    early history of the western country of America. It is the pioneer type-the uncultured, unlettered
                    man, the product of a rude society, who by strong natural gifts came to the fore and asserted
                    himself with distinction among the leaders of the land.
            
               
                        Tipton
                     was a native of 
                        Tennessee
                    , and came to Harrison county, Indiana, in 1807, locating at Brinley's ferry.
                    He was the chief support of the family, and by repairing guns, splitting rails and working as a farm
                    hand he was enabled to purchase a farm of fifty acres in that county, and is said to have soon taken
                    rank as a leader of the law and order forces in his neighborhood. He joined General Harrison in the
                    campaign against the Prophet's town in 1811, and in the famous battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     acquitted himself notably and later was elected captain of the company. He was promoted
                    until he became brigadier general in the service of the state, and donated to the state the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     battle ground where many of his comrades lay buried. He served two terms as
                    representative in the state legislature, and more than a senatorial term as 
                        United States
                     senator. March 3, 1839, 
                        Tipton
                    's term in the senate expired. He died in 
                        Logansport
                    , April 5, 1839.
            This brief biographical sketch of General 
                        Tipton
                     in no measure includes mention of all the activities of the life of  this remarkable man, although he is, perhaps, best known as an Indian
                    fighter, due, in part, to the complete accounts of his exploits in that connection, as well as in
                    regard to other matters, recorded in his invaluable Journals. His father, Joshua 
                        Tipton
                    , was murdered in 
                        Tennessee
                    , by the Indians, in 1793, when the son was seven years old, so he needed no
                    encouragement to become an Indian fighter.
            In regard to his "unconventional" spelling, it has been said that "he was
                    too busy with the affairs of men to read books. He held closely and consciously to his heart the
                    ideals of the community." But his lack of education seems to have been overcome, to some
                    extent, in his later life so that he was at no disadvantage in the 
                        United States
                     senate. However, an advertisement in the Corydon newspaper of October 28, 1819, as
                    pointed out by Hon. Charles W. Moores, in a story about "Old Corydon", shows much
                    of the "advertiser's personality", and that he did find some opportunity
                    to read books. The advertisement is as follows: 
                        Return My Books and I Will Lend Again.
                        The persons who have borrowed of me, Scott's Military Discipline, with
                                the plates; The Naval History of the 
                                    United States
                                ; Duane's Handbooks for Infantry and Rifle Corps; History of the
                                Late War; Webb's Monitor; 
                                    Steuben
                                's Military Guide, and The Trial of Gen. Hull, will confer a
                            favor by returning them immediately.
                        John Tipton
                  
                    
            
            This is at least evidence of the fact that "the pioneer sheriff was not lacking in literary
                    and military taste."
            The name of 
                        Tipton
                     is inseparably connected with the history of 
                        Bartholomew county
                     and 
                        Columbus
                    , because of the fact that the county seat was originally named Tiptona, in honor of
                    General 
                        Tipton
                    , who was then a representative in the state legislature. However, this honor conferred
                    upon one of 
                        Bartholomew
                    's distinguished citizens, for he claimed residence there for a time, was of
                    short duration. The report of the commission, appointed by the state legislature to locate the
                    county seat and which designated the town as Tiptona, was received by the board of county
                    commissioners, on February 15, 1821, and at the meeting of this body, on March 20, 1821, the name
                    was changed from Tiptona to 
                        Columbus
                    .  No action is recorded as to why this change was
                    made, but it was probably due to some political ill feelings or jealousies. 
                        Tipton
                     was a democrat and some of the leaders, locally, were Whigs. There is some record of
                    complaint that 
                        Tipton
                     did not visit the town, Tiptona, after this honor was conferred upon him, which may
                    have been inference that he was not duly appreciative of this one of his namesakes.
            One writer said of 
                        Tipton
                     that he "could not endure the lash of criticism," that he
                    "expected his leadership to stand unchallenged," and that he was so angered
                    because they changed the 
                        Bartholomew county
                     seat from Tiptona to 
                        Columbus
                     that he quit the town, for which he had donated part of the land, and vowed never to
                    set foot on its streets again.
            On January 11, 1820, the legislature appointed a commission to locate the new capital for the state,
                    a member of which was John 
                        Tipton
                    , and on May 17, 1820, 
                        Tipton
                    , with Governor Jennings, started from Corydon on this mission. The closing entry of 
                        Tipton
                    's Journal enroute to select a site for a state capital, is the following:
                        
                        Got safe home having been absent 27 days The compensation allowed us Corns by the Law being
                            $2.00 for every 25 miles Traveling to and from the plaice where we met and
                            $2.00 for each days service while engaged in the discharge of our duty my pay for
                            the trip being $58.- not half of what I could have made in my office a very poor
                            compensation.
                        John Tipton
                  
                    
            
            We have dwelt rather at length on the subject of this sketch because the life of General 
                        Tipton
                     seemed so inseparably connected with Southeastern Indiana History, although he was a
                    man of more than state-wide reputation. His boyhood and early manhood were spent in Corydon, while
                    it was Indiana's capital, but the valor and character and achievements of this intrepid
                    pioneer were recognized throughout southeastern Indiana and the state, and the qualities which he
                    possessed were typical of numerous other pioneers whose faith, hope, energy and idealism entered
                    into the founding of this great commonwealth. It is to be hoped that before a great while a memorial
                    may be placed in this vicinity, preferably as nearly as possible to the scene of the
                    "Battle of 
                        Tipton
                    's Island" in commemoration of General 
                        Tipton
                    's achievements,  especially the heroic
                    services rendered in bringing about the disappearance of the Indians in southeastern Indiana.
            4. Transportation. Under this head may be loosely grouped three phases of history in this section of
                    the state.
            (a) 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad. A unique historical feature which cannot be duplicated elsewhere in the state
                    is that of the building of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad, since it was the first railroad built in the state of Indiana, as well as the
                    first west of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and one of the first west of the Allegheny mountains. It was crude in construction and
                    equipment but the first whistle sounded the death knell of the freight wagon, the flatboat and the
                    stage-coach, and, indeed, the beginning and completion of this road to 
                        Indianapolis
                     marked an important epoch in the history of southeastern Indiana and the entire state.
                        
                        Strictly speaking, the railroad era of Indiana began when the 
                                Madison
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             went into operation, in 1839, but the sudden development of the first roads
                            that grew into the system of later years is a distinguishing feature in the history of the
                            early fifties.
                    
            
            However, this pioneer enterprise, most naturally, was attended with a great many difficulties. It is
                    said, that for four years, as a private corporation, it lay all but dormant, so far as actual
                    performance was concerned. The situation was complicated due to the proposed construction of two
                    other railroads in this part of the state; the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , afterwards known as the I. C. and L., which had secured its charter as early as 1832
                    and in its first steps toward actual construction antedated the M. and I by four years, and the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     road, under the original name of the 0. & Ind. R. R. Co., which was first
                    chartered in 1832, then in 1837, and again in 1846. Just why the state cooperated in the promotion
                    of the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     road, in preference to either of the others, which, in many respects seemed to have
                    been more feasible undertakings, is a story lost to history, but one historian has suggested that
                    the most reasonable inference seems to be that in the strenuous legislative
                    "log-rolling" of that day 
                        Madison
                    's representatives were the most expert. 
                    
                        The State took up the work on the broad—gauge plan, and at once. In 1836, the
                            route was surveyed from 
                                Madison
                             to Vernon, a distance of 22 miles, and ground was broken. The builders
                            proceeded on the theory that the best was none too good and instead of using the plain strap
                            rail, then and for some years in common use, a T rail was imported from 
                                England
                             at an expense of $80 per ton.
                        In November, 1838, eight or nine miles of track having been completed, the road was formally
                            "opened", the event being signalized by the presence of the governor and
                            other officials, and distinguished citizens from far and near. A locomotive had been ordered
                            of the Baldwin shops, at 
                                Philadelphia
                            , and shipped via the gulf and rivers but this was lost at sea and in lieu of it
                            a little engine named the "Elkhorn" owned by the 
                                Lexington
                             & 
                                Ohio
                             R. R., in 
                                Kentucky
                            , was secured, brought from 
                                Louisville
                             on a barge, hauled up the 
                                Michigan
                             road hill by oxen, and put on track at North 
                                Madison
                            . An excursion was made over the new track and the affair wound up with a
                            banquet and speeches. Railroad progress in the state being continuous from that day, this
                            may be considered the real inauguration of the railroad age in Indiana.
                        The State built 28 miles of this road, at the enormous cost of $1,624,603, or
                            something over $58,000 per mile, then * * * * it along with the other public
                            works, was suspended. The railroad was leased to private firms who ran it for a percentage
                            of earnings. Then the state took hold of its business again only to find itself burdened
                            more than ever with a "white elephant", and following that a transfer of
                            the road was made to a private company with the agreement that the latter should take up
                            anew the work of construction and complete it to 
                                Indianapolis
                            . By way of aid this company was permitted to receive land in payment for shares
                            of stock, and to issue scrip redeemable in this land.
                    
            
            (Cottman)
            According to Mr. C. G. Sappington (Magazine of History, Indiana) the M. & I. R. R. was
                    completed to the different points along the line as follows:
            
               
                  Graham
                  17
                  miles
                  from
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
                  Nov.
                  29,
                  1838
               
               
                  Vernon
                  22
                  "
                  "
                  "
                  June
                  6,
                  1839
               
               
                  Queensville
                  "
                  "
                  "
                  "
                  June
                  1,
                  1841
               
               
                  Scipio
                  "
                  "
                  "
                  "
                  June
                  1,
                  1843
               
               
                  
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                        
                  44.9
                  "
                  "
                  "
                  July
                  1,
                  1844
               
               
                  Edinburg
                  "
                  "
                  "
                  "
                  Sept
                  8,
                  1845
               
               
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
                  "
                  "
                  "
                  "
                  Sept
                  1,
                  1846
               
               
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
                  "
                  "
                  "
                  "
                  Oct
                  1,
                  1847
               
            
            In 1843 the railroad was put into possession of a company whose principal office was at 
                        Columbus
                    .
            When this great enterprise of the earlier days, with its tremendous engineering difficulties at the
                    southern end of  the line and financial and other problems of
                    various sorts, which hindered the progress of the undertaking, was finally completed and the first
                    train steamed into 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the 1st of October, 1847, it was in the "midst of a jubilation as
                    enthusiastic as that at 
                        Madison
                    , in 1838, when the little `Elkhorn’ was introduced to the curious
                    public." 
                        The prosperity following the completion of this road was a decided stimulus to railroad
                            construction in other sections of the state. As the 
                                Madison
                             road was extended into the interior its receipts increased, from
                            $2,000, in 1843, to $235,000 in 1849, and the daily travel from 25 to
                            200 passengers. Its stock rose until, in 1852, it sold for $1.60. Capital
                            hitherto timid and distrustful of investment in this direction, now flowed freely and by the
                            latter part of 1850, six new roads were under way with a total of 142 miles built in
                            addition to the 86 miles of the 
                                Madison
                             & 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                    
            
            The proprietorship of the M. & I., at the time the road was completed, was dual, the state
                    and the company owning, respectively, the portions they had built, and the earnings were divided
                    according to mileage. This relationship lasted until 1852. The state then sold out its interests to
                    the company at a sacrifice, withdrew its protection and at once proceeded to the passage of a
                    general railroad law that opened the way to those rival lines that had been previously handicapped
                    by the denial of fair charters. The result was fatal to the M. & I. The most formidable of
                    those rivals, the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                    , pushed forward its work and soon intercepted the trade of the 
                        Madison
                    , carrying it to more advantageous points on the 
                        Ohio
                    . Meanwhile the M. & I. steadily declined and finally, in 1866, was sold out by
                    the 
                        United States
                     marshal and not long after was consolidated with the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     road under the name Jefferson, 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This name was retained for many years but the road is now a branch of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     system.
            In pursuing this study of early railroads a bit farther we were interested to note some of the
                    nicknames of railroads and some facts in regard to early railroad equipment. For instance, the 
                        Cambridge
                     City branch of the J., M. & I. was once called the Calico Road because the
                    workmen on it were paid in dry goods. Locomotives were once universally  named as steamboats are today, the "Gen. Morris",
                    "Reuben Wells’, "Dillard Rickets", etc., but illustrating the
                    old custom of doing honor to men of note in the railroad world. It has been stated that the two of
                    the most popular engines of the day on the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad were the Chief and the Gazelle. The Chief carried a huge brass picture of an
                    Indian chief just below the engineer's seat, while on the other was a brass picture of the
                    Gazelle. It was the duty of the engineer to keep these pictures polished at all times.
            The locomotive in the earlier days had neither cowcatchers nor cab. 
                        The innovation of a protecting cab was at first objected to by the men as a dangerous trap in
                            case of accident. The locomotive weighed from 10 to 13 tons, as against 75 to 100 tons of
                            today, and was capable of hauling 12 or 15 cars holding 3 tons each.
                    
            
            As to speed: 
                        20 miles an hour for passenger trains was a high rate of speed. There is record, in 1840, of
                            an engine drawing 221 tons forty miles in 3 hours and 41 minutes. * * * * A not uncommon
                            occurrence was the stopping of trains till the train men went ahead with a
                            sledge—hammer to spike down rails. There were other causes of delay not down on
                            the schedules, among them being the stoppage at some wayside stream or pool to replenish the
                            water supply by dipping up with leathern buckets that were carried on hooks at the side of
                            the tender. It is a plausible guess that from this job of the trainmen, originated the
                            humoristic appellation of "jerk—water", so commonly applied to
                            cheap and out of date roads.
                    
            
            (Cottman)
            In any notation of Phases of Southeaster Indiana History, it would scarcely seem pardonable to omit
                    some mention of the City of 
                        Madison
                    , one of the very oldest cities in the state of Indiana and for several years generally
                    conceded to be the first city of Indiana, first in commerce, population, wealth, literature, law,
                    religion, politics and social enjoyment. Throughout the forties the one railroad of the state, the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                    , brought the business of the interior to the favored city on the 
                        Ohio
                     where connection was made with the 
                        Ohio
                     river traffic, and there  are stories current of the
                    large steamboats lying in rows along the wharves where the bags of wheat were piled high and the
                    warehouses were filled to their roofs with miscellaneous freight, while countless barrels of mess
                    pork packed for shipment to the south as far as the gulf, and to the east as far as Europe, occupied
                    all the river front and reached up into the by—streets. As a pork market it was second
                    only to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and where is record of 200,000 hogs being slaughtered and packed there in a single
                    month. Because of its importance as an entrepot it became known as the Gateway of the State.
                    However, while the unexcelled prosperity of 
                        Madison
                     was measured by the rise and decline of the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad its beauty of situation and wealth of natural scenery of surrounding districts
                    are still unparallelled throughout the state. And, we may add, the comparatively recent gift of one
                    of the rarest examples of this wonderful scenery, Clifty Falls Park, to the state is ample evidence
                    of the generosity and patriotsm of the citizens of this famed city of Jefferson county, and of the
                    Hoosier state.
            (b) Interurban Railroad. In view of the unusual significance, historically, in southeastern Indiana
                    and the state, of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad, which was the first to be extended to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , as well as the first railroad in the state, we are reminded of a more modern phase of
                    pioneer endeavor along transportation lines, for it was from southeastern Indiana that the first
                    Interurban electric car entered the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , twenty—three years ago. This new mode of transportation introduced into the
                    state has developed into one of the largest and most complete traction systems in the country. The
                    original road was from Greenwood to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but later its construction was extended through 
                        Columbus
                     and to Seymour.
            This interurban line was built by the late Joseph I. Irwin and his son, William G. Irwin, of 
                        Columbus
                    , after thorough examination of electric lines in 
                        Ohio
                     operating near 
                        Cleveland
                    . At the time the first plans for the road were presented there was a decided opposition
                    to such a project and many business men declared pessimistically that such a business venture would
                    not succeed. The road, however, was built and  has met with
                    decided success, and its history is interesting.
            The first stretch of road bed between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Greenwood was made in 1899 and the first car ran between these two cities on
                    December 26 of that year, although it is recorded on some pages of history that this road ran the
                    first interurban car into 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the 1st day of January, 1900. It is said that when the first car went into 
                        Indianapolis
                     the residents of that city were amazed and astounded at the size of the electric car,
                    which was not so large as the city cars now operating in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There was no station erected when the line was put into operation and the Greenwood
                    car was run into the business district where it stood until the hour scheduled for its departure.
                    This car is still used by the Interstate Public Service company for the operation of the road, as a
                    gravel and line car, and is a wooden coach with a small baggage compartment and seating capacity
                    sufficient to accommodate only half of the number of passengers and amount of baggage carried by the
                    large all—steel cars now in use on the line.
            After operating between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Greenwood for a short time a demand arose for the extension of the line as far
                    south as 
                        Franklin
                     and this was effected in 1900. Later, in 1903, it was extended to 
                        Columbus
                     and to Seymour, in 1907, and the name was changed to the 
                  Indianapolis, Columbus
                and Southern Traction company. Through limited cars to 
                        Louisville
                     were later installed and operated by agreement between the I., C. & S. Co. and
                    a company which built a road south of Seymour to 
                        Louisville
                    . The line is now operated by the Interstate Public Service company, which holds a 999
                    year lease from the Joseph I. Irwin estate for the operation of the road.
            (c) The Underground Railroad. In continuance of the subject of transportation let us consider briefly
                    another most enterprising and somewhat dissimilar transportation project, the Underground Railroad,
                    some of the main branches and stations of which were located in this part of the state, and the
                    activities in connection with which stand out in relief in any review of the Phases of Southeastern
                    Indiana History.
            
            The Underground Railroad, a famous feature of the antislavery crusade for twenty years or more
                    preceding the Civil war was, as is well known, a system of transportation routes over which fugitive
                    slaves were secretly conveyed from the 
                        Ohio
                     river boundary into 
                        Canada
                    , where they were safe from the slavery laws of the 
                        United States
                    . The stations were friendly homes where the fugitives were concealed until they could
                    be safely forwarded. The people most zealous in this risky humanitarian work were the Quakers, and
                    the most famous of the various routes was the one that traversed the chief 
                        Quaker
                     settlements in the eastern and southeastern part of the state. 
                        Wayne county
                     was the most conspicuous antislavery center, and 
                        Newport
                    , now 
                        Fountain
                     City, a few miles north of 
                        Richmond
                    , where lived Levi Coffin, the most active and persistent of the crusaders against
                    slavery, was the Union Station of the Underground Railroad.
            Hence the necessity for the many branches of this Underground Railroad in the country south of this
                    important center to convey the traffic northward from the 
                        Ohio
                     river gateways. There were many places where the runaway negroes crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     river from 
                        Kentucky
                     into Indiana. However, this was one of the most difficult problems that the slave had
                    to solve, and to make that proposition easier it was agreed that there should be several places
                    located along the river where the negro could be crossed in boats and skiffs belonging to the
                    anti—slavery sympathizers.
            One of the most important regular crossing places on the 
                        Ohio
                     was near the mouth of Indian Creek, in Harrison county. There refugees were ferried
                    across, then conveyed to friends in Corydon who took them farther north across 
                        Washington
                     county, the corners of Jackson and Jennings, through 
                        Decatur
                    , Rush and 
                        Fayette
                     counties into 
                        Wayne
                    , where they had an innumerable host of friends among the Quakers. They were then
                    piloted through western 
                        Ohio
                     and on to Lake Erie, and when a sufficient number had been gotten together they were
                    taken over to a point in 
                        Canada
                    . It has been stated that probably more negroes crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     river at two or three places in front of 
                        Louisville
                     than any place else from the mouth of the 
                        Wabash
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , the reason being  that the three good sized cities
                    at the falls furnished good hiding places for the runaways among the colored people. Those crossing
                    at these places, also, were conveyed to 
                        Wayne county
                     and thence to the lake.
            The 
                        Quaker
                     town of Azalia, in 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , was one of the most important stations of the Underground Railroad in the state, and
                    many interesting bits of history have been recorded of the assistance given by the people there in
                    harboring fugitive slaves, many of whom came to them destitute of clothing. The leaders in this
                    activity in that locality were John Hall, John Thomas and James Newson. On some occasions they
                    secreted the runaway slaves in the river bottoms and arranged with them to be at a certain stump
                    when the dinner bell rang when their dinners would be taken to them. Here they were guarded
                    carefully until they could be piloted safely northward, through East 
                        Columbus
                     and in the direction of the 
                        Cambridge
                     City R. R. to that city and on to 
                        Richmond
                     and Union Stations. Often as many as a dozen or more slaves were brought from the
                    southern part of the state in covered wagons and cared for by the Friends in and around Azalia.
                    While all those who engaged in this work acted in direct violation of the laws of the country they
                    were actuated by a sincere conviction that they were obeying God's command to feed the
                    hungry and clothe the naked.
            An episode of the Civil war period, not connected with the above sub—division or the main
                    head under which it is classified, but which should unquestionably have mention In any consideration
                    of the general topic is that of Morgan's Raid. Morgan was an American military commander
                    and leader of a company of Confederate soldiers known as Morgan's Raiders, who figured in
                    many daring expeditions during the War of Secession. On July 7, 1863, he crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     into Harrison county and devastated several towns and the country districts, destroying
                    public property such as bridges, depots and railroads, in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                    . The first town to be looted was Corydon, where stores were raided, the county treasury
                    robbed, private houses pillaged and horses stolen. From there the raiders proceeded northward to 
                        Salem
                    , thence directly east to 
                        Vienna
                     and 
                        Lexington
                     in Scott county, then  north through the west edge
                    of Jefferson county to Vernon, from there to Dupont, then to 
                  Versailles, Osgood
                and Sunman
                    in 
                        Ripley
                     county and through 
                        Dearborn county
                     and Harrison to the 
                        Ohio
                     line, having been engaged in guerilla warfare in southeastern Indiana for five days.
            4. Early Literary Life. The early literary life of southeastern Indiana centers about the pioneer
                    littérateur of our state, Edward Eggleston, to whom his brother, George Cary Eggleston,
                    has applied the epithet, "The First of the Hoosiers." He has reminded us that
                    Edward Eggleston was the 
                        first to perceive and utilize in literature the picturesqueness of the Hoosier life and
                            character, the first to appreciate the poetic and romantic possibilities of that life and to
                            invite others to share with him his enjoyment of its humor and his admiration for its sturdy
                            manliness. Other men of rare literary gifts have followed in his footsteps in this richly
                            flowering field, but he was the first to venture upon it. He was the pathfinder. Until he
                            wrote The Hoosier Schoolmaster, and moved the readers of more than one
                            nation to laughter and tears, nobody had ever made the smallest attempt to turn the Hoosier
                            life and character to any artistic account.
                    
            
            This distinguished novelist was born at 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, and lived from 1837 to 1902. He was largely self—educated, as
                    delicate health prevented his going to college, but he was a diligent student and acquired a wide
                    knowledge of French literature and some Greek. At the age of nineteen he entered the Methodist
                    ministry, and for ten years preached and sold Bibles, and traveled in 
                        Minnesota
                     for his health and also engaged in such other pursuits as opportunity offered. Later,
                    he attracted attention by magazine articles and started his literary career in 1866, by becoming
                    editor of the Little Chronicle, at 
                        Evanston
                    , Ill. He afterwards moved to 
                        Chicago
                     and edited The National Sunday School Teacher. He became literary
                    editor of The Independent, 
                        New York
                    , and editor of Hearth and Home. From 1874—1879 he was pastor of the Church
                    of Christian Endeavor in 
                        Brooklyn
                    .
            In 1880 he retired to his home on Lake George, 
                        New York
                    , and thereafter devoted himself wholly to literature. At this time southern Indiana had
                    come into prominence by his story  of The Hoosier
                        Schoolmaster, which first appeared in the Hearth and Home. This story was one of the
                    earliest examples of realistic fiction portraying manners and dialect, and was one of the most
                    popular books of the 19th century. Among his other novels are Hoosier School Boy, End
                        of the World, Mystery of Metropolisville and Roxy. He also published biographies of
                    American Indians for juveniles.
            Another pioneer literary resident of the beautiful and picturesque town of 
                        Vevay
                     was Mrs. Julia L. Dumont, of whom it was said, "she was the wisest woman and
                    most successful teacher I have ever known," and who is credited with having had a wonderful
                    mastery over young minds and sympathy for youthful thought and feeling. Edward Eggleston said of
                    her: 
                        As a school—master she deserves immortality. She loved the teaching profession.
                            Mrs. Dumont was the ideal of a teacher because she succeeded in forming character.
                    
            
            While Mrs. Dumont had a natural genius for teaching, she occupied no mean place as a writer of poetry
                    and prose, and eminent littérateurs of the time from 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     used to come to 
                        Vevay
                     to see her.
         
         
         
            Judge John Griffin
            Of all the judges who served in 
                        Michigan
                     territory during the period when they together with the governor constituted the
                    legislative body, Judge Griffin has left the least impress upon its institutions or upon the memory
                    of the people. Although appointed judge by President Jefferson, December 23, 1805, and serving until
                    February 1, 1824, he left only the impression of an indolent, indifferent, uninteresting official,
                    whose interests were never in the territory, and who gave to his duties as little time and attention
                    as he could escape with.
            He came from a distinguished 
                        Virginia
                     family but was born in 
                        Scotland
                    , April 20, 1771. His father was Cyrus Griffin of 
                        Virginia
                    , who as a young man went abroad for his education, and was entered at the Middle Temple
                    as a student and meeting Christina, the daughter of the Earl of Traquhair, fell in love with her,
                    found his affection reciprocated and against her father's objection they were married.
            The father forgave and the young couple lived for a time at the father's castle at
                    Traquhair, Peebles county, 
                        Scotland
                    , and there John was born.
            Not long after, Cyrus with his wife and son returned to 
                        Virginia
                     and took an active part in arousing hostility to 
                        England
                    , and in 1778 was sent to the Continental congress as one of the 
                        Virginia
                     delegates, serving at that time three years and later in 1787—8 and in the
                    last year of the congress was its president. He held numerous offices of importance, including that
                    of 
                        United States
                     district judge in 
                        Virginia
                    , and it was no doubt due to his influence that his son was appointed on December 8,
                    1800, one of the judges of Indiana territory. He was then twenty-nine years of age, was of good
                    appearance and manners. He had spent some time abroad and had studied law.
            During the period from March 3, 1802, to the creation of 
                        Michigan
                     territory all of the present state of 
                        Michigan
                     was attached to Indiana so that Judge Griffin for three years exercised a nominal
                    jurisdiction over 
                        Detroit
                     and the adjacent  country, although in fact no
                    Indiana judge ever held court in 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     people had no knowledge of or paid attention to any laws which the Indiana legislature
                    enacted.
            It was at Judge Griffin's own request that he was transferred as 
                        United States
                     judge from Indiana to 
                        Michigan
                     and a few years later he tried in vain to exchange his position in 
                        Michigan
                     with Judge Stanley Griswold, then 
                        United States
                     judge in 
                        Illinois
                     territory.
            Although appointed in December, 1805, it was not until September, 1806, that he first reached 
                        Detroit
                     and took up his duties there.
            One of the first acts of the legislative board composed of the governor and judges was to incorporate
                    the 
                        Detroit
                     bank and in this institution Judge Griffin subscribed for ten shares. Stocks were
                    always a favorite form of investment of the judge and frequent references are made in the letters of
                    his contemporaries to his stock interests.
            In the differences which soon arose between Governor Hull and Judge Woodward, the sympathies and acts
                    of Judge Griffin were generally on the side of Woodward, and when Judge Witherell came on in the
                    place of Judge Bates, in nearly all cases a division found Woodward and Griffin on one side- Hull
                    and Witherell on the other.
            Conflict, however, was distasteful to him; he liked peace and quiet, but he was not afraid on
                    occasion to act independently and even in opposition to all the other members of the board. He has
                    left no written opinions in cases decided by the court of which he was a member, so the quality and
                    extent of his legal learning cannot now be determined.
            During his entire term of office in 
                        Michigan
                     Judge Griffin spent much of his time away from the territory. He first arrived at 
                        Detroit
                     in September, 1806, and the following spring he left for a trip to 
                        St. Louis
                    , spending some time in 
                        Vincennes
                     where he responded to a toast at a Fourth of July celebration and did not return to 
                        Detroit
                     until the summer of 1808.
            In August, 1811, he left for an extended visit to his old home in 
                        Virginia
                     to look after the affairs of his father who  had
                    died in December of the previous year at Yorktown, and returned to 
                        Detroit
                     in the spring of 1812. After the surrender of 
                        Detroit
                     he went east and came back to his official duties in the fall of 1814.
            With his associates he was legislated out of office by congress, which ended his official career,
                    February 1, 1824, but he did not remain in 
                        Detroit
                     until that time, leaving for 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where he remained for the rest of his life, living quietly upon his small income from
                    investments in stocks.
            He had bought in 1816 a farm near 
                        Monroe
                    , being Private Claim 495, which had been for some time in the Knaggs family and of
                    which he retained the ownership until his death, and which was sold by his heirs in 1853.
            He died in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in July, 1849, leaving an estate of little more than $4,000.00, consisting
                    of bank stock and bonds; this was in addition to his 
                        Michigan
                     land.
            In his position as judge he sometimes displayed independent judgment and firmness but in general he
                    was disposed to accept and follow the guidance of the stronger mind of Judge Woodward. Perhaps a
                    fair characterization of him is that of William Woodbridge, who said that he was a man of
                    respectable literary acquirements, of good taste and good manners, but with a mind lamentably
                inert.
         
         
         
            Hoosier Pioneers
            Joseph Wheeler Walker, Batesville
            The Home of the Pioneer
            
            One of the first things we want to know about a stranger in whom we are interested is what kind of a
                    house he lives in, as if the place where a man eats and sleeps and calls his home in some way
                    reflects the makeup of the man. And so, in thinking of the pioneer, we want to know in what sort of
                    a house he lived. It must be remembered that the pioneer of Indiana came into a country heavily
                    timbered, excepting a portion on the western border and a few prairies over the state, usually under
                    water. There was neither a railroad nor a canal, nor even a turnpike. He came into this wilderness
                    to make his home. Some of the earlier settlers came from comfortable homes, but most of them were of
                    moderate, or below moderate, means. Live stock that could be led or driven was brought with them.
                    But furniture and other goods that could not walk or travel by their own locomotion were left
                    behind. Only necessary implements were brought with them, among which were the rifle, the ax, the
                    broad-ax, the frow, and a few rude farming implements. Furniture and all other articles that could
                    be made of wood were disposed of before starting for the new home in the wilderness. Thus equipped,
                    what sort of a home could the pioneer build to shelter himself and his family?
            The simplest form of the pioneer home was the half-faced camp. This was built by cutting two forks
                    from sapplings and driving them into the ground a few feet apart and a few feet from a fallen tree.
                    A cross pole was then placed in these forks, and, with one end on the cross pole and the other upon
                    the fallen tree, poles were placed to form the framework of the roof. The roof was then completed by
                    piling brush upon the poles. The two ends were built up with logs and covered with mortar made of
                    mud. The side opposite the fallen tree  was left open. Here a
                    heap of logs was rolled up and fired, which served as a heating plant and also as a protection
                    against wild animals. Mother earth was the floor, and skins spread upon it served as beds, the
                    occupants lying with their feet to the fire and their heads to the fallen tree. Of course the roof
                    leaked, and in wet weather the daubing fell from the wall, but this home was only used until a
                    better could be provided, and, fortunately, it was usually built during the dry season of the fall,
                    and skins were procured in sufficient number to make a good inside lining and to close the opening
                    in front before bad weather came on. Thus the skins were dried and protected the family against the
                    weather at the same time. It was in an abode of this sort, near Little Pigeon creek, in 
                        Spencer
                     county, that the Lincoln family lived the first year of their sojourn in Indiana.
            Not all settlers, however, lived in this kind of a house. Very often a man would make a trip into the
                    wilderness, select his land and build a cabin, and then return to his home and bring his family the
                    next year. And, too, when he brought his family on the first trip, the family sometimes lived in the
                    wagon, which was covered, until the cabin was built.
            The cabin was constructed of logs, the straightest to be found, ten or twelve inches in diameter, and
                    twelve to eighteen or sometimes twenty feet long. Maple, ash, beech and poplar were used. The logs
                    were notched at each end to fit over the logs of the adjacent side. Sometimes the bark was peeled
                    off, quite often it was left on. Poles were used for rafters and also for cross pieces, upon which
                    were placed clapboards, rived from the oak timber of the surrounding forest. The cabin was built
                    without the use of nails, the clapboard roof being held on by means of weight poles. The space
                    between the logs was filled with chinks, short pieces of timber, and daubed with mud. The mud did
                    not stick very well and sometimes fell out in great chunks, especially in rainy weather.
            At one end of the cabin an opening was made for the fireplace. The foundation of the fireplace was
                    clay pounded solid with a maul. The chimney was a log pen built around the opening several logs
                    high, well mortared, and finished out with sticks and mortar. Straw or grass was often mixed with
                    the  mud mortar to make it hold better. The straw made the
                    chimney more dangerous for fire. An elderly lady whose father settled in Adams county in 1836 told
                    me that they always looked up the chimney before retiring to see if any straw was on fire. If they
                    saw any sparks they threw a cup of water up the chimney to put them out.
            Glass being hard to get, the window was often covered with greased paper. A deer or bear skin often
                    covered the opening left for a door. Wooden doors were hung on leather hinges. In one cabin the door
                    was hung on bacon rinds, which after being gnawed off by the dogs, were replaced with wooden hinges.
            But let us not judge too critically of the quality of the man from these first abodes of the first
                    settlers. The cabins they built were the product of circumstances rather than an indication of the
                    caliber of the builder. They wrought as best they could under the conditions. Most of the settlers
                    were not content to live very long in this round-log cabin with dirt, or at best puncheon, floor and
                    stick chimney. After the pioneer got settled and had cleared off a few acres for crops, he began
                    selecting the straightest and best trees in his woods for the erection of a hewed-log house. The
                    logs were hewed on at least two sides, sometimes on four sides, making a tolerably smooth wall. The
                    space between the logs was carefully chinked and plastered with lime and sand. There were sometimes
                    two rooms below, and always an upstairs. The floors were made of sawed lumber. There was a brick
                    chimney with a brick or stone hearth. The door jambs and window casings were made of walnut or
                    poplar. The roof was made of shingles if they were available, if not, of clapboards carefully rived
                    and nailed on. Instead of the door pin in the old log house, there was the latch-and-string which
                    consisted of a wooden latch on the inside of the door with a leather string attached and running
                    through a hole in the door to the outside. To lock the door at night one simply pulled the string
                    in. This was a very convenient way of latching the door as long as the latch worked freely. But if
                    the latch stuck when one was on the outside there was danger of breaking the string, leaving oneself
                    locked out.
            
            The hewed-log house was usually placed a few feet from the first round-log cabin, and the space
                    between them was roofed and partly or wholly inclosed, making an extra room. This space between the
                    houses was called the entry, because through it one entered either log house. In summer this was the
                    coolest place to be found. This entry on many a Sunday afternoon served as a meetinghouse where the
                    neighbors, which included everybody who lived within ten or even more miles, gathered for devotional
                    services. When the family moved into the new hewed-log house the old log cabin was used for a
                    kitchen and dining room. The new hewed-log was the parlor, sitting room, and bed room.
            There were two types of settlers. One came for the love of adventure and subsisted by hunting and
                    fishing. The other came to get a home where he and his children might have a better chance to gain a
                    competency. The first built a makeshift cabin and as soon as game became a little scarce, sold out
                    to some one more enterprising and moved on to newer territory. Some did not have enough ambition to
                    move on but lived and died in their first log cabin, sometimes in poverty. The other type came to
                    stay, and built substantially, as is evidenced by the old hewed-log houses yet standing.
            The furniture in the primitive home was of the rudest kind, made by placing two posts a few feet from
                    the wall and connecting these posts with the wall by means of cross poles upon which hewn boards
                    were placed for a top. The bed was made in a similar manner by driving a post the proper distance
                    from a corner of the cabin with cross poles from the post to the two walls. Upon this framework
                    poles or boards were placed and covered with leaves or straw. Stools and benches of as rude a nature
                    answered the purpose of chairs. The back-log, until it was needed for its ultimate purpose in the
                    fireplace, was used as a bench.
            But many of these early settlers were handy with tools, and as soon as they were settled and had
                    time, made better and often somewhat artistic furniture. My grandfather was a sturdy 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Dutchman. By trade he was a cooper. In 1838 he settled in Adams county about two miles
                    southwest of the point where Limberlost creek flows into the 
                        Wabash
                    .  This part of the state was at that time covered
                    with heavy oak, beech, walnut, poplar, maple, ash, elm, sycamore, and varieties of smaller timber.
                    He made some beautiful buckets by alternating the staves with ash and walnut or wild cherry. His
                    buildings were of a very substantial type. The round log house which he first built was used for
                    more than fifty years. The hewed-log, built a few years later, is still standing. The brick chimney
                    is still intact. The old well house, which is also hewed-log, is still standing.
            Travel
            
            For a long time after the first settlers came to Indiana there was not a railroad nor a canal in the 
                        United States
                    , and not a turnpike in Indiana. Most of the traveling was done on foot or horseback.
                    The roads were only horse paths, and the traveler was guided by blazed trees and quite frequently
                    lost his way. Of course the settlers did little real traveling after they were once settled in their
                    new homes. A neighborhood included all the country within a radius of ten or fifteen miles. Going
                    from one place to another in the same neighborhood was not considered traveling. If the whole family
                    went, as they usually did to social gatherings, such as log rollings, sheep shearings, corn
                    huskings, house raisings, and religious meetings, the father mounted the horse with the larger
                    children in front, and the mother, with the smaller children behind. If the distance was only a few
                    miles, it was often made on foot.
            The greatest distance traveled by most settlers was in going to mill. The flour mills were located
                    along the streams where water power could be used. Settlers often lived more than thirty miles from
                    any flour mill. It took at least one day to cover this distance, and if the roads were bad, as they
                    were most of the year, it took longer than a day. After reaching the mill, the settler had to wait
                    his turn, and in all it sometimes took several days to go to mill and return home again. Often the
                    settler was exposed to much discomfort on these trips. The weather might be mild on his departure
                    from home, and before nightfall a sudden change might make traveling a great hardship. The following
                    story is told of  James Snow, who lived in the Salamonia region.
                    Mr. Snow was out of tobacco and, desiring to purchase some, started from his home in the morning for
                    Camden about ten miles distant, to purchase a supply. It was winter, and clouds obscured the sun.
                    The weather changed to colder. He reached Camden and made his purchase and started on his return
                    trip. The snow was falling thickly, and the trace was hard to follow. Nightfall came. He lost his
                    way and started back. But he could not find his way back. He wandered here and there, in vain trying
                    to find the way. He was becoming much fatigued but knew if he lay down he would perish before
                    morning. He got between two trees and kept moving from one to the other, resting at intervals by
                    leaning first against one tree and then the other, and in this way held out until a searching party
                    rescued him the next morning.
            There were two classes of citizens in that day who did quite a lot of traveling. These were the
                    preachers and the lawyers. There were few local preachers. Most of them had circuits which they made
                    more or less regularly. This gave them the name of circuit riders or itinerants. They were poorly
                    paid, seldom getting over $200 per year and more often less than $100 per
                    year. Much that was promised was never paid. But they were usually treated very hospitably not only
                    by the members of their own church but by the settlers generally. Two ministers on their return trip
                    from a camp meeting at 
                        Vincennes
                     were lost. They came to a fork in the path. The atmosphere in the one direction smelt
                    swampy. They took the other path and soon came to a clearing. It was then dark. They gave the usual
                    "hullow," whose meaning every settler knew. A typical backwoods Hoosier lady came
                    to the door. "Well, who be you? What's wanting?"
                    The men stated their case. They wanted food and lodging. The lady advised them to go two miles
                    farther on to an inn where they would get "mighty good accommodashuns." The men
                    protested that they had been lost all day and that they would lose their way again in the dark and
                    that they had had nothing to eat since the evening before. She finally told them they might stay
                    over night, but that they would have to sleep on the floor because the only bed they had was all
                    taken up by herself and  the children, and that she could not
                    give them food because they were out of corn meal and would not have any until the husband went to
                    mill and got some cracked, which he intended to do on the morrow. They took the lodging without the
                    food. They spread their horse blankets on the floor and used their saddles for pillows. But the
                    creaking of the bed upon which the children rolled and tumbled, now and then kicking each other in
                    the side, the hardness of the floor, and the dry hickory-nut odor from the hogs sleeping beneath,
                    all combined to banish repose. At dawn they arose, offered the lady pay for their lodging, which was
                    refused, and started for the inn two miles farther on where they found the "mighty good
                    accommodashuns" mentioned by their hostess of the night before.
            The other class of travelers were the lawyers who traveled on horseback from one court to another,
                    which were often many miles apart. Every itinerant attorney, and at this time all were itinerant,
                    traveled on horseback, as did most people who were passing through the country for one purpose or
                    another. Evidence of this mode of travel is seen in the following advertisement in the Indiana Journal, Tuesday, January 10, 1826: 
                        
                     
                                Washington
                             Hotel, 
                                Columbus
                            , Indiana
                        Thomas Hinkson
                        Respectfully informs his old customers, and the public generally, that he has removed from
                            his former stand to the north side of the courthouse square, on Jackson Street, where he
                            still continues to keep
                    
            
            A HOUSE OF ENTERTAINMENT, 
                        for travelers and boarders; and he assures the public that no industry shall be wanting to
                            render the situation of persons who may call on him comfortable. His stable is large and
                            commodious, and will always be supplied with good corn, oats and hay; and from close
                            attention to business, he expects to receive a share of public patronage.
                    
            
            Samuel Henderson in advertising 
                        Washington
                     Hall, near the center tof the town of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , said: 
                        Horses will be attended to in the best manner and on moderate terms. He has also a convenient
                            pasture lot where they can be let to exercise.
                    
            
            
            
               Indiana Journal, December 3, 1829.
            The expense of traveling then was much less in dollars and cents than it is today. On October 29,
                    1831, B. 
                        Brown
                     and S. Henderson, inn keepers in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , advertised in the Indiana Journal that after December 1st the rates of regular
                    boarding would be as follows:
            
               
                  Without lodging, per week
                  $2.00
               
               
                  including lodging, per week
                  2.50
               
               
                  Legislative members and others during session
                  3.50
               
               
                  If lodged separately
                  4.00
               
               
                  In separate rooms
                  5.00
               
               
                  Transient persons under one week self and horse, per day
                  1.25
               
               
                  Over one week, per day
                  1.00
               
               
                  Rate of horse keeping, per day
                  .50
               
               
                  Rate of horse keeping, per week
                  2.00
               
            
            Although the accommodations were very primitive, most of the inn keepers tried to meet the needs of
                    the travelers in an efficient manner. O. H. Smith, in his Early Trials and
                    Sketches tells us that Captain John Berry prided himself in trying to make his tavern in
                    Andersontown (now Anderson) especially accommodating to travelers. He even made a trip to 
                        New York
                     and "put up" at the Astor House to get pointers on the best way to
                    run a hotel. When he went to the dining room he said they handed him his bill before bringing him
                    anything to eat. The waiter asked him what he would have to drink. He replied,
                    "tea."
            "What kind of tea?"
            "Store tea, of course."
            On Sunday morning he strolled down Broad Way. Passing a church while the organ was playing, someone
                    invited him to come in. He replied that he didn't dance, and, if he did, he
                    wouldn't dance on Sunday.
            A party of itinerant attorneys were stopping at Captain Berry's hotel. Among them was O. H.
                    Smith, Judge James Whitcomb, and others. Judge Whitcomb was very fastidious. He changed shirts every
                    day, was very critical of his own personal appearance, and always slept in a night shirt, a habit
                    many very upward looking people in that day had not learned. One of the attorneys, a fast friend of
                    Captain Berry's, was  given to pulling jokes on the
                    other attorneys. One morning he called Captain Berry aside and asked him if he had heard what Judge
                    Whitcomb had said about his beds. No, he had not. "Well," said the attorney,
                    "Judge Whitcomb says your beds are so dirty he has to take off his day shirt and put on a
                    dirty one to sleep in." That, of course, roiled Captain Berry. He had prided himself on
                    having the cleanest hotel in the state, and now to hear that the cleanest man in the state said his
                    beds were dirty was more than the Captain could endure. It was arranged that the Captain should
                    watch that night and see for himself. When the Judge went to his room to retire the Captain followed
                    and peeped through an opening in the door. Sure enough, the judge was taking off his day shirt and
                    making ready to put on another. The Captain pounced upon the judge and, had it not been for the
                    intervention of the other attorneys, would have thrown him out bodily. It was finally explained to
                    the Captain that it was only a joke, and he humbly apologized to the judge.
            O. H. Smith also narrates another trip that he and two other attorneys made which throws light upon
                    the hardships of travel in those days and also upon the hospitality of the settlers. Smith and Judge
                    Miles C. Eggleston started from 
                        Connersville
                     in the morning and were joined by James Rariden at 
                        Centerville
                    . They were headed for Fort 
                        Wayne
                     where court was to convene on the next Monday. It was in the fall of 1825, and, being
                    the dry season of the year, the roads were very good. They reached Winchester the first night and
                    put up at Paul Way's hotel. The next morning they set out through the wilderness. It was
                    hot and dry. They could find water neither for themselves nor for their horses. About one
                    o'clock they reached the 
                        Wabash
                     river which was almost dried up. But there was grass on the banks, and they stopped
                    here to rest and graze their horses. Saddles, saddle bags, and blankets were taken off the horses.
                    It was a question whether they should hold the horses, tie them to sapplings, or turn them loose. It
                    was decided that there was no danger of their running away and that it would be better for
                    themselves and the horses to turn them loose. They took the bridles off and turned the horses loose.
                    They grazed for a few minutes when  one stuck his nose in the air
                    and gallopped as fast as he could back over the road he had just traveled. The other two horses did
                    likewise, and the three men were left in the wilderness far from habitation, with no means of
                    conveyance excepting their own legs. It was known that there was a cabin on Townsend's 
                        Prairie
                     about ten miles farther on. They hung their saddles and blankets in a tree high enough
                    that the wolves could not reach them, threw their saddle bags over their backs, and started for the
                    cabin on Townsend's 
                        Prairie
                    . The heat was intense, and none of them was used to walking. Near evening dark clouds
                    gathered in the west, thunder rolled, and lightning pierced the sky. Worn almost to exhaustion, they
                    reached Thompson's cabin on Townsend's 
                        Prairie
                     just in time to escape the downpouring rain. Thompson's cabin was low, about
                    twenty feet square, covered with clapboards, and had no loft. The men had had nothing to eat since
                    breakfast at Paul Way's hotel in Winchester. The supper that Mrs. Thompson prepared for
                    them consisted of three articles: boiled squirrel, corn dodger, and sassafras tea. The men ate
                    heartily and soon after supper "turned in." The next morning their saddles and
                    blankets were brought to them from the 
                        Wabash
                    , and Mr. Thompson provided them with ponies and they reached Fort 
                        Wayne
                     that evening. Their horses were taken up at Fort Defiance, 
                        Ohio
                    , and returned to them at Winchester on their way home.
            As soon as wagon roads were opened up over the country stage coaches appeared. But traveling by stage
                    was often much worse and slower than by horseback. In 1837 Thomas Goodwin, a Methodist minister,
                    then going to Asbury College, started from 
                        Brookville
                     by stage for 
                        Greencastle
                    . He reached 
                        Indianapolis
                     too late for the stage west and had to lay over a day in the capital. He took the 
                        St. Louis
                     Limited Stage at ten o'clock that night and arrived in 
                        Plainfield
                     in time for breakfast the next morning, having traveled a distance of fourteen miles.
                    They had not gone far on this fourteen miles when the stage stuck in the mud. The passengers were
                    requested to get out and get fence rails and pry the stage coach out of the mud. They obeyed. After
                    getting out of that mud hole, the driver told the passengers that they had better carry  the rails on down the road with them, because they would need them
                    again.
            There was very little danger in traveling by stage, yet there were a few accidents, usually due to
                    drunken drivers or fractious horses. The following appeared in the Indiana Journal, December 1,
                    1830: 
                        Sad Accident
                  
                        The horses drawing a stage coach from Lawrenceburgh to 
                                Cincinnati
                             became frightened as they were passing Mill Creek and ran away, upsetting the
                            coach in which Judge Test, representative in congress, and his lady were on their way to 
                                Washington
                            , D. C. The Judge had a bone in his leg fractured.
                    
            
            A great deal of travel, as well as transportation, was carried on by use of the rivers. It was easy
                    to drop down stream in a boat or on a raft, but it was another matter to get back up again. Keel
                    boats made the trip from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     in five weeks, but the return trip took three or four months. The invention of the
                    steam boat overcame many of the difficulties of river navigation. As early as 1811 a steam boat made
                    the trip from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     in fourteen days but did not come back up again. The steam boat greatly stimulated the
                    industrial growth of that section of Indiana adjacent to the 
                        Ohio
                     river.
            After being accustomed to such slow travel, can we wonder that the people marveled at the speed
                    claimed for rail road trains when they began to be talked of? The Indiana Journal, June
                    6, 1826, says: 
                        Traveling—The seemingly presumptive declaration made by Oliver Evans in the
                            presence of the editor of this paper when a boy, in 1790 or 1791, that, "the man
                            was then living who would see the 
                                Ohio
                             and the 
                                Mississippi
                             covered with steam boats, and that the child was born who would travel from 
                                Philadelphia
                             to 
                                Boston
                             in one day" is rapidly approaching fulfilment. The journey from 
                                Philadelphia
                             to 
                                New York
                             is now made in less than ten hours, and from 
                                New York
                             to 
                                Boston
                             in twenty-three hours and twenty-two minutes. The other part of the prophecy
                            was long since completed.—Niles.
                    
            
            On June 19, 1827, the same paper quotes the 
                  
                            Baltimore
                         Patriot as saying: 
                    
                        Mr. Flemming has traveled on a railroad in 
                                England
                             at the rate of twenty miles an hour on an inclined plane, but this rate is
                            considered hazardous to the machinery and travelers-eight miles is a fair, moderate speed,
                            and is easily effected over any ground, and we should think it sufficiently expeditious to
                            answer all the purposes contemplated in the present great undertaking.
                    
            
            O. H. Smith relates that in 1826 he and Hon. John Test were candidates for congress from the same
                    district. They met in debate at Allensville, 
                        Switzerland
                     county. Mr. Test was a man of great education and insight. In speaking of the wonderful
                    resources of the country and its prospects for advancement, he avowed that he was in favor of
                    railroads, and that he had voted for the Buffalo and 
                        New Orleans
                     road, and then, by way of reaching the climax, shouted: 
                        I tell you, fellow citizens, that in 
                                England
                             they run the cars thirty miles an hour, and they will yet be run at a higher
                            speed in America.
                    
            
            The speaker had expected this statement to bring a wild roar of applause. It did bring a wild roar,
                    but it was one of derision. One old man bawled out: 
                        You are crazy, or do you think we are all fools; a man could not live a minute at that
                        speed.
                    
            
            Communication
            Communication was even slower than travel. There was no telegraph, no telephone, no mail trains, and
                    anyone who would have dared to suggest the radio would have been declared insane and sent to a
                    lunatic asylum. The mail was carried on horse back, and the interval between mails was not less than
                    a week and often more than two weeks, when the mails were regular. The following taken from the
                    Indiana Journal December 26, 1826, will give some idea of the mail service:
            Mails arriving and departing from 
                        Indianapolis
                    : 
                  
                     Arrival from
                     Departure for
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Centerville
                                , Friday, 6 P. M.
                     Saturday, 6 A. M.
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Brookville
                                , Monday & Friday, 10 A. M.
                     Immediately
                  
                  
                     Lawrenceburgh, Saturday, 2 P. M.
                     Monday, 10 A. M.
                  
                  
                     Vernon, Tuesday, 6 P. M.
                     Wednesday, 6 A. M.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Washington
                                , every other Friday, 12 o'clock
                     Every other Thursday at 6 A. M.
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Princeton
                                , every other Thursday at 6 P.M.
                     Every other Thursday at 6 A.M.
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                , Saturday, 10 A. M.
                     Every other Thursday at 6 P.M.
                  
                  
                      
                     Saturday, at 12 o'clock.
                  
                  
                     Winchester, every other Thursday at 2 P. M.
                      
                  
               
                    
                        The office will be closed on Sunday. Persons expecting letters should bring the postage with
                            them, as no trust can be given, and it is hoped none will be asked for. Newspaper postage
                            must be paid at the commencement of the quarter.
                        Samuel Henderson
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            , Nov. 14, 1826.
                    
            
            Postage was high, compared with what it is today, and was paid by the person receiving the letter.
                    The postage on a single letter, a letter of one sheet of paper, was six cents for a distance of
                    thirty miles, twelve cents for a double letter, one of two sheets, increasing with each additional
                    sheel and also increasing with the distance. Money was scarce, and this accounts for the long list
                    of letters advertised in each issue of the newspaper. It is said that Henry Ward Beecher, while
                    holding a meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , left a letter in the post office more than a week because he did not have the money to
                    pay the postage. Postage stamps were not used by the government until 1847, and it was not until
                    1857 that the sender paid the postage.
            Today a man may sit in his own home on the night after an election and know to a considerable degree
                    of certainty who is elected governor of his own state or president of the 
                        United States
                    . In the general election of 1825, held the first Monday in August, there were two
                    candidates for governor, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                     and James B. Ray. Three weeks later, August 23, the Indiana Journal
                    gave the following results: 
                        Ray, 14,258, 
                                Blackford
                            , 12,079, with five or six counties not yet heard from.
                    
            
            Think of the agony politicians today would suffer under such conditions. The presidential election
                    was held then as it is now on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November.  On November 22, after the presidential election in 1832, the Indiana Journal started an editorial with the following statement: 
                        Although but a few states have been heard from, no doubt is entertained that General Jackson
                            has been elected.
                    
            
            The already slow mail service was often further delayed by negligent post masters and mail carriers.
                    The following, taken from th Indiana Journal, December 6, 1825, is an example:
                        
                        A part of the mail which has been missing one year and seven months, between Newbern and 
                                Fayette
                            , has arrived at the former place safe and sound, it contained a considerable
                            amount of money. It was found laid away snugly in a post office on the route; much gratitude
                            is expressed by the editor of the Newbern Sentinel, to the careful post master, that he
                            preserved the package from the depredation of the rats.
                    
            
            High water often delayed the mails. Notices similar to the following often appeared in the newspapers
                    of that day.
            In consequence of the non-arrival of the most important mails, which was occasioned by high water, no
                    paper was issued from this office last week.
            (Indiana Journal)
            And again in explaining the non-issue of the same paper 
                        High water has detained our wagon on the road from 
                                Cincinnati
                             to this place (
                                Indianapolis
                            ) more than two weeks longer than is usually taken for the trip.
                    
            
            Newspapers were often delayed in reaching the subscribers by the postmaster taking them out of the
                    mail and reading them before sending them on. This was done especially while the legislature was in
                    session. The editor of the Indiana Journal advanced the idea that the government should appoint a
                    post office inspector.
            Occupations and Industry
            After building his cabin, the next task of the settler was to procure food and clothing for himself
                    and family. There was an abundance of game in the woods, deer, bear, wild turkey, wild hogs,
                    pheasants, quails, and squirrels, and it did not require any great ability as a hunter to keep the
                    family well  supplied with meat. There was also plenty of
                    sassafras root and spice bark which was used for tea. Maple and sugar trees furnished sugar and
                    molasses. There was plenty of pasture in the woods during the summer for the cattle, and the hogs
                    fattened on mast during the fall. But bread would not grow on the bushes, although it was sometimes
                    almost made to grow among the bushes. The land was heavily timbered, and to clear it for crops was
                    an arduous task. Timber was of no value, because there was no market for it. Everybody had more than
                    was needed, and it couldn't be transported to parts of the world where it was needed. So
                    the settler had to get rid of it by cutting it off and burning it up. The underbrush and small
                    timber were cut off and burned, and the larger trees were deadened by cutting through the bark
                    entirely around the tree. When this was done the tree would die and decay. Among these deadened
                    trees the settler often planted his crop of corn, pumpkins, beans, potatoes, cucumbers, squashes,
                    sweet potatoes, and melons. The pumpkins and squashes were saved for winter use by slicing and
                    stringing and hanging up in the cabin to dry. A garden spot was kept near the cabin where all sorts
                    of garden stuff were raised. The home grounds were beautified with the morning glory, the hollyhock,
                    creeping ivy and other flowers. An orchard was planted, and more land was cleared.
            Most of the bread used was corn bread, not because the people liked it better than they did wheat
                    bread, but because corn meal was more easily prepared than was wheat flour. The wheat raised by the
                    settler was of poor quality. It often had smut and "wheat sick" and did not make
                    good bread. The wheat was thrashed by tramping it out, sometimes by horses, and there was no
                    effective way of separating the dirt from the wheat, and dirt and wheat were ground together. On the
                    other hand, the corn was of the best quality and could be grown even under adverse conditions. The
                    best corn could be selected for bread and was hand shelled, and the dirt and bad grains were
                    discarded. It could also be cracked or grated in the home, and save the weary journey to mill. Corn
                    meal was also much cheaper than wheat flour, and as cash was scarce, this was a strong argument in
                    favor of using corn meal.
            
            The early settler supplied most of his needs on his own homestead. He had cattle, sheep, hogs, and
                    poultry. The cattle furnished milk and butter, the sheep furnished wool out of which the mother spun
                    yarn and wove cloth for clothing, and the flax grown on the fields furnished linen. Grain was not
                    grown for sale because the market was only local and very limited, and the price was very low, as is
                    shown by the following advertisement in the Indiana Journal, December 3, 1829:
                        
                        Conner & Harrison
                        
                     
                                Wish
                             to purchase 2000 Bushels of CORN for which they will give 14 cents per bushel,
                            in goods, delivered at Thomas Johnson's one mile and a half north of 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                    
            
            Few towns had warehouses where grain was bought and sold. Corn, the staple product, could not be
                    hauled very far for the price paid. Consequently the farmer fed his corn to hogs because the hogs
                    could walk to market. The big markets were at the river towns where the products could be carried
                    down the river in boats to 
                        New Orleans
                    . It was said that more Indiana boats were seen at the docks at 
                        New Orleans
                     than from all the rest of the country. The breed of hogs raised was the razorback or
                    elm-peeler strain. Today they would not be given room on any farm. Better breeds were advocated and
                    actually introduced by a few forward looking farmers, but the innovation was viewed with suspicion
                    by the great majority of those who called themselves farmers. Each farmer had his own mark, a
                    peculiar slit in the ear, and the hogs were let run wild in the woods until after the mast was gone.
                    Then they were rounded up, a task that sometimes took days or weeks to do, so wild had the hogs
                    become. Then their fattening was finished on corn. Then began the weary wending of the swinish herds
                    toward the great markets on the 
                        Ohio
                     river. The greatest markets were at 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . A. Moderwell advertised that his slaughter house at 
                        Madison
                     had a capacity of 500 hogs daily. In the fall of the year roads leading to these places
                    swarmed with hogs. Evidence of this is found in an extract from the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    American, November 29, 1834: 
                    
                        For the last three weeks our eyes have been greeted with scarce anything except vast droves
                            of the swinish multitude. Within that time, from our own idea of things, and from the
                            calculation of others, there must have passed through this place upwards of thirty thousand
                            hogs; all wending their way to 
                                Cincinnati
                            , the greatest hog market, we venture to say, in the known world. All these hogs
                            are from a small section of the state. We are told by the oldest settlers there were never
                            before as many hogs driven through this place in one year as have been in the last three
                            weeks. Some days it seems as if the vast arena of nature's storehouse was filled
                            with hogs.
                    
            
            Up until 1840 the price of hogs on foot never got above two cents per pound, and was often much less.
                    Other products were also cheap. Cattle ranged from one and a half to three cents per pound. A
                    dressed deer often sold for two dollars. A yoke of oxen could be bought for twenty-five dollars.
                    Sheep sold for about one dollar per head. Flax seed was worth 50 cents per bushel, corn, 10 to 15
                    cents. Horses ranged in price from ten dollars to fifty dollars. An extra good saddle horse might
                    bring more. On July 3, 1828 the Indiana Journal gave the following market report:
                        
                        MARKET AT THIS PLACE (
                                Indianapolis
                            , which was then only a village) : Flour, $2.50 per cwt, corn meal,
                            50 cents per bushel, Bacon 8 cents per pound and much in demand. A scarcity of the latter
                            article may be attributed to the number of hogs which were driven from this section of the
                            country, during the last fall, to a foreign market.
                    
            
            The settler made shoes for himself and family out of leather for which he traded hides or tan bark.
                    The Indiana Journal, April 7, 1830, contained the following want ad: 
                        Tan Bark
                        N. Noble & Co.
                        
                     
                                Wish
                             to contract for 100 cords of white oak bark. Those who wish to exchange bark
                            for leather, will please call at their currying shop on 
                                Washington
                             Street.
                    
            
            Industries in the inland towns were of a decidedly local nature, and the extent of their operation
                    was limited by the needs of the people. There were saw mills, at first run by oxen, but it
                    didn't take long to meet the needs of the community, and there being no way of transporting
                    the lumber  from the interior to the river towns, the mills shut
                    down as soon as the local market was supplied. In 1830 a steam mill started in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It was operated by a stock company. The 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal said at that time, by way of boosting the sale of the stock: 
                        The mill contemplates making bread stuff as a starter but hopes to branch out into fulling,
                            cotton spinning, sawing, paper making, and other operations.
                    
            
            This mill was not a success. It was shut down most of the time.
            An early industry in the towns was that of cabinet making. We find in the Indiana
                        Journal, December 4, 1827, the following: 
                        Wanted
                        25,000 feet of Cherry and Poplar Lumber for which cabinet furniture will be exchanged at fair
                            prices. Persons desirous of making the exchange, will please call on the subscriber as soon
                            as possible, and receive bills for the description of lumber which is wanted. Caleb
                        Scudder
                    
            
            This industry seemed to prosper, and Mr. Scudder soon took in a partner, and on May 15, 1828, they
                    again advertised for lumber "for which cabinet work and sometimes cash will be
                    paid.’
            Hat making was another occupation that seems to "get on." The following from the
                        Western Sun of 
                        Vincennes
                    , May 15, 1830, will give some idea of the hat shop of that day: 
                        Hats
                  
                        MADE and SOLD by R. P. Price
                        In the house lately occupied by James S. McArthur, as an iron store on Second Street, one
                            door above Market Street. The price of hats in general are for
                    
            
            
               
                  Beaver
                  $10
               
               
                  Fine Castor
                  8
               
               
                  Coarse do
                  6
               
               
                  Fine Roranie
                  $5
               
               
                  Coarse do
                  3
               
            
            
                    Hats made in the shops here are in general much superior to those imported from the Eastern
                        states, for the latter are made of the coarsest wool, and napped with rabbit fur-the farmers
                        would find it to their  interest, at least 25% to purchase
                        from the manufacturers. I pledge myself that my hats shall be made in the best manner of
                        superior stuff, and in the most fashioned style.
                    Richard P. Price
                    Pork, corn and oats will be received in exchange for Hats. R. P. P.
                
            From an advertisement in the Indiana Journal, February 8, 1834, we are led to
                    believe that the hat making business was profitable in 
                        Indianapolis
                    :
            Hides
            
            CASH! CASH! 
                        The subscriber wants to purchase from 10 to 15 thousand skins, consisting of the following,
                            viz:
                        Otter, Mink, Black Fox or Fisher, Raccoon, Grey Fox, Wild Cat, Deer, Bear and Wolf,
                        For which the highest price will be given in cash or hats, or in discharge of debts due
                        him.
                    
            
            John Jamison
            So profitable was the hat business that a lady from our sister state on the south was induced to
                    cross the river and set up a hat shop for women: 
                        Millinery
                  
                        Mrs. Matilda Sharpe, recently from 
                                Kentucky
                            , will make ladies’ bonnetts and hats of every description in the
                            newest fashion, "Bleach Leghorn Hats and Bonnetts—Colour Dress
                            &c, &c.
                    
            
            RESIDENCE 
                        Mr. E. Sharpe, Meridian Street, north of Governor's Circle.
                        
                     Indiana Journal, Oct. 23, 1827.
                        Butcher shops were not so profitable:
                    
            
            
               Indiana Journal, July 18, 1826:
            REGULAR BEEF MARKET 
                        The subscriber respectfully informs the citizens of 
                                Indianapolis
                             that he has commenced the killing of cattle, and will hold market every
                            Wednesday and Saturday morning, at the corner of 
                                Washington
                             and 
                                Tennessee
                             streets, opposite the treasury, where they may be accommodated with the
                            cheapest and best the country can afford.
                        Jacob Colip
                    
            
            STORE GOODS and sometimes CASH will be given for fat STEERS, COWS, or HEIFERS
            
               Indiana Journal, July 18, 1826.
            Four months later, on November 21: 
                    
                        Market Adjourned
                        I have discontinued killing cattle for this season. I thank my friends once for their past
                            custom; I will thank them twice if they will come and pay their dues, as business calls me
                            away in haste. All those that do not call in a few days will find their accounts in the
                            office of C. Scudder, and a notice in the hands of H. Bradley.
                        Jacob Colip.
                    
            
            In 1827 the Public Ledger of 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, made a plea to capital to invest in cotton factories in 
                        Richmond
                    . It estimated that $40,000 annually were spent by the people of that
                    community for cotton goods which might be manufactured in 
                        Richmond
                    . The cotton spinning factory at Brook-ville was clearing above expenses 25% annually.
                    The National road about to be constructed from 
                        Columbus
                     to 
                        Richmond
                     would open an outlet for the products of the factories that should be located in 
                        Richmond
                    .
            There was very little money in the country at that time. Most of the business was carried on by
                    taking produce in exchange. A great deal of credit was given, and bills were hard to collect. A few
                    advertisements appearing in the newspapers of the time illustrate the system of doing business. The
                    following is from the Western Sun (
                        Vincennes
                    ), April 17, 1830: 
                        New Store
                        The subscribers are now opening in the new store on Market Street, next door to Messrs.
                            Burtch & Heberd, a large assortment of substantial and fancy dry goods, with
                            hardware, cutlery, queensware, glassware, hats, shoes, and groceries &c, &c,
                            all of which were recently purchased by one of the partners (who had every possible
                            advantage as to price and quality) in 
                                New York
                             and 
                                Philadelphia
                            , and will be disposed of on the lowest terms for cash; or in barter they will
                            receive at fair prices, viz: Wheat, corn, rye, pork, beeswax, cordwood, saw logs, feathers,
                            dried apples, tallow, domestic linen, beans, deer skins, onions, &c, together with
                            all merchantable articles, the product of home industry.
                        Marron & Hunter
                    
            
            With every list of goods advertised there was also an urgent request to come in and pay up. Hides
                    were a legal tender and were taken in exchange for almost everything the pioneer needed. They were
                    not bulky nor heavy and were not perishable and could easily be transported. There was a great deal
                    of ginseng in the woods which was gathered and  sold to local
                    merchants. McCarty & Williams, merchants in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in 1834 offered six cents per pound for ginseng, in goods or in payment of debts, with
                    part cash for deliveries of fifty pounds or more. Salt was needed in quantity and was high because
                    of the difficulty of transportation. Whiskey was plentiful, there being no restriction on its
                    manufacture, and could be bought for twenty to thirty cents per gallon. Merchants kept for sale
                    copper stills, and people made whiskey for sale and for their own use. There was so much whiskey in
                    the country that the market was usually overstocked. The following recipe for putting up pickles
                    would lead us to believe that whiskey was cheaper than cider:
            Whiskey, Water, and Pickles 
                        Gather the pickles from the vine, wash them clean, drop them into a solution of one part
                            whiskey to three parts water, cover the jar with a flannel cloth tied around the jar, place
                            a board on top of jar over the flannel cloth, and a stone on top of the board. No salt nor
                            anything else but just whiskey and water. When the jar is opened for use the pickles are
                            found to be solid and crisp with a good flavor and the same color as when taken from the
                            vine. After the pickles are taken out the whiskey and water makes good vinegar. I have no
                            doubt but vinegar for all purposes might be made in this way cheaper than from cider.
                        Cousin Tobitha, in Indiana Journal, July 17, 1827.
                    
            
            The first bank in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was established in 1834. This was a branch of the state bank and was chartered for
                    twenty-five years. A notice in the Indiana Journal, Dec. 8, 1834, stated that the bank would be open
                    from ten a. m. to two p. m. every day except Sunday. There wasn't as much business
                    transacted in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as there was in the 
                        Ohio
                     river towns, because 
                        Indianapolis
                     had no outlet for its products like the river towns had. This bank, however, was
                    successful, which was probably due in large part to the development of 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a railroad center, which was at that time being agitated, and to the building of
                    turn pikes, and especially to the building of the National road, which passed through the capital.
            Much credit business was done, and collections were slow. But for the most part the people were
                    honest and paid when  they had the money, or produce, which was
                    taken as pay. There were, however, some dead beats who didn't intend to pay and would skip
                    the country to escape payment. Persons who deliberately beat their creditors were blacklisted, and
                    their dishonesty was held up to the public by a write-up in the newspaper. The following is part of
                    such a write-up in the Indiana Journal, September 22, 1832:
            Take Notice 
                        
                     Keep a Sharp Look Out for Benjamin F. 
                                Paris
                            , who has again taken French leave of this place. He is on his second trip. If
                            he is going do not stop him. We hope he will never again be seen in this place. This
                            swindler has contracted with us a number of debts and some of us are his securities.
                    
            
            The article then goes on to enumerate how he stung the business men of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and describes his personal appearance, stating that he claimed to be a Methodist, that
                    he sometimes exhorted and wanted to be a preacher, and that he also pretended to be a teacher of
                    music. Then follows: 
                        Where Ben's gone or where he goes, No one cares nor no one knows;
                        He goes in debt, then runs away, And all who trust him get no pay.
                    
            
            Some of these write-ups are very free in the use of adjectives and distinctive epithets and lead one
                    to believe that the writer might be biased in his opinion of the other fellow, or that the write-up
                    might be the outcome of a private quarrel, to which there might be two sides. The following appeared
                    in the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Chronicle, May 9, 1829:
            Departure!! 
                        Cleared from this city about three weeks since, Edgar Mason, by profession an M. D., by
                            character, a hypocrite, and by practice, a knave and a villain. He came to me in the spring
                            of 1828, and said he could not live by his profession, and wanted me to learn him the art of
                            dentistry. I was disposed to render him all the assistance in my power, and instructed him
                            in the business till sometime in the following fall. I paid his board and went bail for him
                            to the amount of about thirty-five dollars, which I have to pay, for all of which he has
                            politely turned on his  heel and made off, taking with
                            him Dental instruments, which I had lent him, to the amount of about $50 and
                            leaving me to whistle for my pay. Such is a mere outline of his character, which I deem it
                            my duty to make known to the public, that they may guard against being similarly imposed
                            upon.
                        Isaac Jennings
                        To the above the subscriber offers his testimony to the dishonesty of said Edgar Mason, and
                            will esteem it a favor, if papers that exchange with the Chronicle will
                            give this notice an insertion. It may prevent the public from being imposed on by a
                            scoundrel.
                        R. Robins, Proprietor of the Chronicle.
                  
                    
            
            And then the come back July 2, 1829: 
                        Beware of a Villain
                        A few weeks since (during my absence on business), Isaac Jennings published a most infamous
                            and malicious libel upon my character, making many assertions and cautioning the public to
                            beware of me.
                        The truth is, his accusations are false and groundless, and I assert (upon my own
                            responsibility), that the author of them is a base and infamous liar, scoundrel and knave.
                            Let this suffice for an introduction to his character: He married a wife in the state of 
                                New York
                            , and after living with her some time, he decamped and left her in the town of
                            Black Rock, a victim of his villainy. From that place he went to 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , and brought from that state another wife to this city. He remained here long
                            enough to be guilty of the most base conduct, and decamped May 30th, leaving his wife
                            behind; she has now followed him to 
                                Louisville
                            . Where next he will attempt his villainy, I know not. His occupation until
                            within two years past, has been that of a dancing master and musician for strowling puppet
                            shows; since then he has practiced dentistry. His manner is insinuating and calculated to
                            deceive those who are unacquainted wth his character.
                        In person about six feet high, stout built, age about 35, great boaster of his skill in
                            music, dancing, and dentistry. All the above assertions I stand ready to prove by the most
                            respectable references.
                        Edgar Mason
                        Printers throughout the Union will confer a favor on the public by making public the
                            character of Isaac Jennings.
                        N. B. Since the publication of my card in the Chronicle of May 9,
                            respecting Edgar Mason, he has returned and given an explanation of his suddenly leaving the
                            city; and by settling his account with me, has removed the cause which promoted the
                            expression of a belief in his dishonesty. I therefore request those who noticed that, to
                            take notice of this also.
                        R. Robins, Proprietor of the Chronicle.
                  
                    
            
            
            Social Life
            Although the pioneers endured many hardships and privations, they, nevertheless, enjoyed themselves
                    in many social gatherings quite as much as do the members of modern society. There was no snobbery,
                    no fictitious affectations, all were on a social equality. There were house-raisings, logrollings,
                    corn-huskings, goose-pickings, sheep-shearings, quilting bees, spelling matches, singing schools,
                    and shooting matches. As soon as the timber was prepared for the cabin, the neighbors came in and
                    helped to raise it. When the logs in the clearing were cut or niggared into the proper lengths, the
                    neighbors came and helped roll them into heaps. At the log-rollings the men were divided into two
                    groups, and the work was divided into two parts as nearly equal as possible, and then the race began
                    to see which group could finish first. While the men were rolling the logs the women were preparing
                    dinner. Such a feast kings never sat down to. There was meat of all kinds, venison, wild turkey,
                    chicken, sometimes bear, with pot pie and dumplings galore. There was pie, and cake, and all the
                    accessories, including hard cider and whiskey. At the corn-huskings, when a fellow found a red ear
                    he got to kiss the prettiest girl there. After the cornhusking there was always a dance. At these
                    gatherings political questions were discussed by the voters. The following was taken from the Indiana Journal, May 29, 1827: 
                        Gentlemen:
                        I sit down to tell you of a little circumstance of not much importance at present but which,
                            if not timely checked, may ruin the blessings we enjoy under a free constitution. On the
                            25th inst., at a goose-picking near the Frog Pond, 24 of us old clod-hoppers being convened
                            together, concluded to try the strength of the company, on the following question: whether
                            it was better to employ two or three men in the county, to dictate to the people how they
                            should vote, or that every free man should vote as he pleased? When the vote
                            stood as follows: For dictators, 2, for every man voting as he pleases, 22. The rest stood
                            neutral to see which way the wind blew. There is, however, something so disgusting and so
                            cringing in receiving the dictatorship of these demagogues who have no end to gratify but
                            their own ambition, that the people near the Frog Pond are determined to defend every
                            encroachment of their liberties.
                        A Foe to Foul Play
                        
                        P. S. At a sheep-shearing near the Buzzard Roost, the question came up, whether a
                            representative ought to be appointed by a few officious salaried officers or by the
                            people? and unanimously determined in favor of the latter—no one
                            voting on the opposite side, except those personally interested.
                        This shows the falsity of the report that the people want two or three men to elect their
                            representatives.
                        A. F. P.
                    
            
            One of the greatest events of the year was the camp meeting which was held in the autumn during the
                    dry season, after the crops were laid by and the wheat and oats harvested.. The roads at that season
                    of the year were usually good, and people came in covered wagons, on horse back, and on foot. They
                    often came as much as forty miles to these meetings, which lasted a week or ten days. Those coming
                    from a distance camped on the grounds. James Flint, in Readings in Indiana
                    History, describes a Wesleyan Methodist camp meeting in the following manner: 
                        The preacher occupied a platform above the level of the audience. In front of the
                            speaker's platform was an inclosure for those seeking salvation. Trees were felled
                            for seats for the audience, and the males and females were separated by a rail fence. If one
                            got on the wrong side he was asked to climb the fence. In the inclosure for the seekers
                            there was great commotion. Some were shouting, leaping, jerking; others were moaning,
                            praying, and swooning; all of which was intermingled with loud "Amens".
                            Some swooned away and were carried into the tents. A short interval was allowed for dinner,
                            and in the afternoon they proceeded with a fresh speaker, and likewise again in the
                        evening.
                    
            
            The fourth of July never passed without appropriate observance. The Declaration of Independence was
                    always read, and some prominent citizen made a speech. On one occasion a zealous advocate of General
                    Jackson's administration stepped into a church where the Fourth of July services were being
                    held just as the reader had reached that part of the Declaration which sets forth the usurpations of
                    the king. He listened with anger for a time, but when the reader read 
                        A prince whose character is thus marked by every act which may define a tyrant, is unfit to
                            be ruler of a free people,
                    
            
            he could stand it no longer. He rushed out of the church and berated and bedamned the
                    "violent party spirit" of the meeting for abusing General Jackson on the Fourth of
                    July.
            
            SCHOOLS
            Many of the pioneers were educated and desired to educate their children. But there were grave
                    obstacles in the new country to the progress of education. The sparsely settled country, the
                    impassable roads at times of the year, the danger of sending children through a forest infested with
                    wild animals, the lack of money, and the hard labor necessary to provide a home and the necessities
                    of life, almost eliminated schools from the pioneer's program. Although the state
                    constitution made provision for education, no general system of schools supported by taxation was
                    inaugurated for many years after the first settlers arrived. Subscription schools were organized,
                    usually for three months during the summer. But these were not general and were voluntary, and not
                    all the children of any community attended. The subscription price per pupil for three months varied
                    from $1.25 to $2.50, and the number of pupils, scholars, as they were then
                    called, varied from 20 to 40, making the teacher a salary of about fifty cents per day, sometimes
                    less. In addition to this remuneration, the teacher boarded among the patrons, going from one patron
                    to another and staying according to the number of scholars in the family.
            The first school house in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was built in 1821 near a large pond at the corner of 
                        Kentucky
                     avenue and 
                        Washington
                     street. It was a low log building with clapboard roof and a chimney so low that when
                    there was no school the sheep got in through the chimney. The following extracts from newspapers of
                    that day give an idea of the desire for education: 
                        Literature
                        Mr. J. H. Ralston
                        Will commence a course of lectures on the science of English Grammar in this place on the
                            first day of October.
                        He pledges himself to enable those who become his pupils (however in commencing unacquainted
                            with the science) to advance so far in twenty-four days, four hours each day, as to be
                            enabled to parse common language.
                        
                        Terms of tuition, three dollars per scholar. Those gentlemen and ladies who wish to acquire a
                            knowledge of that useful science are solicited to make application at J. Vigus’
                            Inn, where the school will be taught.
                        
                     Indiana Journal, 9-18-27.
                        To Female Teachers
                        Several citizens of 
                                Indianapolis
                             are solicitous that a female teacher competent to instruct their daughters in
                            the higher branches of education, should become a resident of this place.
                        
                     Indiana Journal, 7-17-28.
                        
                     
                                Noblesville
                            , Indiana, Jan. 25, 1834.
                        School Teacher Wanted
                        A gentleman that can come well recommended to teach an English school might find immediate
                            employment.
                        
                     Indiana Journal, March 1, 1834.
                    
            
            In 1823 the Presbyterian church of 
                        Indianapolis
                     built a new meeting house by subscription and provided a room for a day school. Other
                    churches also provided schools, but the Presbyterians are said to have had the best schools, and the
                    Methodists, the best preachers. Indiana university was established by the state at 
                        Bloomington
                     in 1820. For half a century it struggled for existence. The different denominations of
                    churches felt agrieved, each because it was not given control over the school, and established
                    colleges under their own control, such as 
                        Franklin
                     college, under the Baptists; 
                        Hanover
                     college, under the Presbyterians; and Asbury university, under the Methodists. In 1825
                    Robert Owen purchased the Rappite lands at Harmony and established his colony of Communists. The
                    town was now called 
                        New Harmony
                    . Owen established a school in connection with this colony, and for a few years this was
                    a center of art and learning. Many students were there from Europe and some from Mexico. The boys
                    delighted in playing pranks just as students do today. Dueling, although prohibited in Indiana, was
                    resorted to in most of the states. A Swiss named Baltazzer was a student in the school. He was very
                    unpopular with the boys. He had a quarrel with another scholar named Mike Craddock. The Swiss sent
                    Craddock a challenge to fight  a duel which challenge was
                    accepted. The time and place were agreed upon and the second chosen. When the time arrived the
                    parties met at the designated place. The distance was measured off, the pistols were examined and
                    loaded and handed to the principals. The signal to fire was given by dropping a handkerchief. Both
                    fired at the same time. The Swiss was unhurt. Craddock staggered, dropped his pistol, clasped his
                    hand over his heart and fell. The seconds ran up, opened his coat, examined his heart, and
                    pronounced him dead. The Swiss was distracted at what he had done. He pawed the air and cried,
                    "For God's sake send for a doctor." After letting the Swiss rave for a
                    time, Craddock sprang to his feet and burst out laughing. The Swiss then realized that he was the
                    victim of a practical joke. It had been previously arranged, with Craddock's knowledge,
                    that blank cartridges should be used. The boys teased the Swiss so much about this duel that he left
                    the school and went back to Europe, as he said, "to the company of gentlemen."
            Towns and Cities
            The first settlements in Indiana were made along the rivers and streams. The reason for this was
                    because travel was much easier on water than on land, and because the streams afforded water power
                    for the mills and an outlet for the products of the country. Accordingly we find the most important
                    towns springing up along the 
                        Ohio
                     river on the south, along the lower 
                        Wabash
                     on the west, and along White Water on the east. On the 
                  Ohio, Lawrenceburg
                was
                    laid out in 1802; 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , in 1802; 
                        Aurora
                    , back in the 18th century; New 
                        Albany
                    , in 1812; Corydon, in 1808; 
                        Madison
                    , in 1805 or 1806; and 
                        Evansville
                    , in 1812. On the 
                  Wabash, New Harmony
                was settled in 1814; 
                        Vincennes
                    , in the early part of the 18th century by fur traders; 
                        Terre Haute
                    , in 1816; 
                        LaFayette
                    , in 1825; 
                        Logansport
                    , in 1828. Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was a military post or Indian agency early in the 18th century. On White Water, 
                        Brookville
                     was settled in 1808; 
                        Connersville
                    , in 1813; 
                        Richmond
                    , in 1816. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , on White River, was laid out in 1821. In 1840 New 
                        Albany
                     was the  largest town in the state. 
                        Madison
                     was second largest. In the early history of the state it seemed that the 
                        Ohio
                     river towns would retain the lead both in population and enterprise. But with the
                    opening up of roads, especially the National road, and turn pikes, and the construction of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal, and the advent of the railroad, the supremacy of the river towns began
                    to be contested by the inland towns.
            In 1820 the committee appointed to select a place for the capital of the state selected the present
                    site of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . When the legislature met the report of the committee was approved. The town was laid
                    out in 1821 and named 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The federal government donated four sections for the capital. The capital was at that
                    time at Corydon where it had been moved from 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1813. The capital was not to be moved from Corydon to 
                        Indianapolis
                     until the latter town was prepared to receive it. The town was then only a cluster of
                    houses. A season of great sickness gave the place a bad reputation, and the town grew very slowly.
                    There was great difficulty in getting the necessary provisions. The steam boats that were expected
                    to ply White River did not come. Corn meal had to be brought from 
                        Connersville
                    , sixty miles away, on horse back. All this section of the country was under the
                    jurisdiction of 
                        Connersville
                    . About this time Jeremiah Johnson and Miss Jane Reagan decided to get married. Mr.
                    Johnson walked to 
                        Connersville
                     for the license. Why he didn't borrow a horse and bring back with him some of
                    the much needed corn meal, is not known. But when he got back to 
                        Indianapolis
                     no one qualified to tie the knot could be found. Can you imagine 
                        Indianapolis
                     without a marrying squire? After a few weeks a minister was found, and the
                    couple was married. This was the first wedding in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            In 1824 the population of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was only 600. The capital had not yet arrived. But in November of that year, Samuel
                    Merrill moved it from Corydon to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in wagons. It took five days to make the trip and cost $65. The coming of
                    the capital helped some, but not as much as had been expected. While the legislature was in session
                    the town  livened up a little but dropped back as soon as the
                    session closed. In 1827 the population was about 1000. The capital of Indiana was only a village,
                    with hogs, cattle, and sheep running at large through the principal streets. Futile attempts had
                    been made to incorporate the town, and it was not until 1832 that the incorporation of the town was
                    accomplished. One of the first ordinances passed placed a tax of fifty cents per head upon hogs
                    running at large. In those days a family without a dog was not well equipped, but two dogs were one
                    too many, and a tax of fifty cents per head was placed upon all dogs above one owned by a family. A
                    person leaving a cellar door open upon the street should be fined one dollar. Anyone leaving a team
                    unfastened in the street without unhitching the trace chains should be fined not to exceed three
                    dollars. The first speed ordinance was passed at that time. Anyone running or galloping a horse
                    through the alleys or streets should be fined not to exceed three dollars. Likewise the fine for
                    firing a pistol or flying a kite, or leaving firewood on 
                        Washington
                     street more than twelve hours, was not more than three dollars. The market master got a
                    salary of thirty dollars per year, and the market was open two hours on Wednesdays and Saturdays.
                    And thus began the capital city of the best state in the Union.
         
         
         
            Morgan's Raid
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                               ST. CLAIRSVILLE, OHIO
                           
                                    July 28th, 1863.
                                
                        Dear PA:
                        Belmont County has for the past few days been the scene of a great deal of
                                    excitement, consequent on the unpleasantly near approach of John Morgan to her
                                        borders.1 You are aware that some time since Morgan and his
                                    marauding band crossed over into Indiana and after raiding arround in that state for
                                    awhile came over to pay a visit to the "Buckeye" State. He crossed
                                    over at 
                                        Butler
                                     Co. and after being hotly pursuid on all sides and having a good
                                    portion of his force killed and captured in the Southern County he directed his
                                    course northward. It was evident that he found himself entrapped and was seeking an
                                    outlet by way of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     river. On last Thursday night our Citizens were aroused and alarmed at
                                    a late hour by the ringing of the Court-House bell. Word had come that Morgan was in
                                    Guernsey Co. and was heading towards Belmont and it was not long before the whole
                                    town was in a perfect "furor" of excitement. A meeting was called
                                    to determine what to do. As the Governor had not called out the Malitia of this Co.
                                    and we were perfectly defenseless. Before this however the Military Committee had
                                    dispatched to Tod, knowing of the near approach of Morgan, to know if he could find
                                    us arms. He replied that he could not in time. They then sent word to Governor
                                    Boreman of West Va. to know if he could furnish arms but he replied that they were
                                    all in the hands of his own Malitia. There was no other alternative then, than for
                                    each man to furnish his own gun, and all who would agree to go to put their names
                                    down 
                              
                                 1 The following letter was secured by W. L. Lynch from
                                            Loring C. Halberstadt, who obtained it from Mr. West of 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            . It was written by Mr. West's grandfather to his great
                                            grandfather.
                           
                                     that night, which a great many did. The morning
                                    found the excitement unabated. Men were running to and fro, hunting up fire arms,
                                    moulding bullets and girding on their armour, making one think of the
                                    "Scenes of "76" described in history. It was not long
                                    before quite a "squad" had collected among the number might be
                                    seen the "military figure" of your humble servant. The Omnibuses
                                    were ordered out and we started in the direction of Morristown, (30 or 40 in no.) as
                                    we heard that Morgan was at 
                                        Washington
                                     coming down the pike. The panic had likewise spread all over the Co.
                                    and everybody that could raise anything in the shape of a gun or pistol
                                    "rushed to the rescue." At Morristown we were joined by the
                                    Companies of Loydsville, Belmont, Barnesville, Flushing, Morristown, etc., and
                                    stragglers from the surrounding country, swelling our force to about 3 or 400. We
                                    now took up the line of march toward Fairview as we heard the rebs were there and
                                    our intention was to try to head him. When we were west of Morristown some two miles
                                    on Taylors Hill we were met by a courrier who stated that Morgan had had a skirmish
                                    with the "Malish" at 
                                        Washington
                                    , crossed the pike and was going in the direction of Cadez. We then
                                    retraced our steps and remained in Morristown waiting further orders. Col's
                                    Poorman and Cowen were our field officers, and John A. Work our Captain. In the
                                    meantime the Citizens of Morristown had prepared eatibles and the way the lot of
                                    hungry men pitched into them was a caution, as a great many had not had anything to
                                    eat all day and it was now evening. This spoke well for the hospitality of the
                                    people of Morristown and they will always be remembered by all who were there for
                                    their kindness. We remained there about four hours when word came that Morgan was
                                    striking for the pike again and we were ordered to the road leading in past the
                                    Infirmary as it was supposed that if Morgan came at all he would strike the pike at
                                    that point. So we encamped here for the night sending mounted scouts out in that
                                    direction. As this was my first experience at soldiering, it puzzled me somewhat to
                                    know how I was to put in the night. Presently Elb Kinnon came along and proposed
                                    that we go and hunt some place to sleep. Not fancying the idea of lieing on the
                                    ground, we  placed four sails on the ground and
                                    stretched ourselves lengthwise with our guns for our pillows. But finding this
                                    rather too hard a bed we began to look around for a softer one, when we found a
                                    haystack close by where a good many of the St. C. boys were resting. Here I did not
                                    sleep much for laughing at "Bob Buff" keeping watch with his
                                    "Gunboat" as he called his old rusty musket. The most of the
                                    soldiery that were out that night were rather "verdant" and not
                                    well versed in the rules of camp. So "
                                        Cuba
                                    " was inclined to have a little sport. A great many would come
                                    to the stack to hunt a soft place to rest or some hay to make a bed with. "
                                        Cuba
                                    " would halt them with his "Gunboat" pointing
                                    at them, demanding their business and warning them against coming any nearer,
                                    telling them if they wanted hay to go around to the right and get it. They all very
                                    willingly obeyed his orders, saying that they were not aware that they were
                                    transgressing. We were all very thankful that we had "
                                        Cuba
                                    " along that night as he kept us in sport, and kept our
                                    sleeping place clear of all intruders. John Morgan may have came through our camp
                                    that night but I "couldn't see him." The next morning
                                    part of our crew took breakfast at John Rattman's in East Rich-land, part
                                    at other places and part didn't take any. Soon in the morning a courier
                                    came with the word that the rebs had taken breakfast that morning at New 
                                        Athens
                                    , Harrison Co. and that his next point was Harrisville. We then all came
                                    back to town and after further consultation among the officers, they concluded to
                                    march toward Harrisville and try to render some assistancy in intercepting the
                                    raiders before they reached the river. But we were too slow for their fleet footed
                                    steed, for by the time we reached the creek (Wheeling) they had passed through
                                    Harrisville and gone in the direction of ——. Our next
                                    "strategtic" move was to go right down the creek and stop the
                                    "gentlemen (!)" if they attempted to come down the plank road and
                                    come up the pike. We arrived at Barnards at one oc'lk and partook of a few
                                    "rations." Now the excitement, already great, increased. People
                                    came flocking in on horseback, in wagons, busses, and on foot, old and young, some
                                    armed and some not, some coming to fight and some coming through curiosity, and
                                    swelling the force to  about 500. Couriers were
                                    placed on every mile from Bridge-pont to camp and from camp to town. I was placed on
                                    the first mile from town.
                        It was soon ascertained that it was not Morgan's intention to come up this
                                    way and therefore considering the "Stone Bridge" on the big Hill
                                    "Safe" the "Malish" all came up to town to
                                    quarter for the night. Provisions were bountifully donated by the citizens which
                                    were spread out in the Court-House and all who were not fed at private houses eat
                                    until their appetites were fully satisfied. They were then disposed arround town and
                                    in the C. H. for the night. I quartered about 15 in my room and sent 4 up to the
                                    house. The next morning, Sunday, they again partook of breakfast in the C. House and
                                    now the streets might be seen full of men with guns in their hands, lounging about
                                    on the stone, boxes, on the steps, and standing up awaiting anxiously to hear what
                                    was the next on the programe. It was by this time pretty sure that Morgan was so
                                    completely hemmed in Jefferson Co. that there would no longer be any need of the
                                    Malitia here and they were accordingly dismissed and all went home, hoping soon to
                                    hear of the capture of the indomitable Morgan. At noon a dispatch came, announcing
                                    that a battle had taken place at town beyond Stubenville in which from two to three
                                    hundred of Morgan's men and one hundred and fifty horses had been captured,
                                    Morgan himself narrowly escaping. All was quiet now until about 5 o'clock
                                    in the evening when everyone was again aroused by the ringing of the bell, caused by
                                    a courier coming in from Harrisville reporting that the "rebs"
                                    were within a few miles of that place marching back towards Flushing to the pike. In
                                    the meantime however a dispatch had been rec'd that Morgan himself and four
                                    hundred of his men had been captured and his force scattered. It was thought best to
                                    dispatch courriers in the direction they were reported to be coming and ascertain
                                    the truth of the matter. I in company with some others mounted old
                                    "Billy" and galloped off to Harrisville. (I expect you will get
                                    out of patience reading this long letter but I want to tell you all about this
                                    affair). All along the road we found the people very much frightened expecting to
                                    see Morgan dashing along every  minute. But when
                                    we told them that Morgan was captured they seemed to discredit the other report
                                    somewhat. When we arrived at Harrisville we found that it was all a
                                    "ruse" and that the "rebs" were not more than
                                    fifty miles of there. This morning (Monday) we have the official report of the
                                    capture of Morgan and the balance of his crew. Thus 
                                        Ohio
                                     has the name of taking prisoner the indomitable and hitherto
                                    "invincible" John H. Morgan, of the force of nearly five thousand
                                    men, all well mounted, with which Morgan crossed the 
                                        Ohio
                                     river, only a few stragglers less than one hundred have escaped death
                                    or capture. He was so hotly pursued all the while that he had no opportunity of
                                    doing much mischief and his raid was converted into a flight. He passed all around
                                    Belmont County but never came into it. He stoled a great many horses on his route
                                    but a good many will get their horses back. He took two horses at 
                                        Washington
                                     belonging to Sam Lewis, Mr. Lewis has got one of them back and will
                                    probably get the other one, Neiswangers also had one taken. In crossing the C. 0. R.
                                    R. they burnt Campbells Station, 14 miles above Barnesville. I think Morgans raid
                                    has done more good than harm, as it has arroused the people out of their lethargy
                                    and tended to unite the people. This evening the Citizens had a little jolification
                                    over the good news. Speeches were made by Col Poorman, Judge Kennow and Cowen, R. S.
                                    Clark, R. E. Chambers and others. Tar barrels were burnt and everybody rejoiced.
                                    This ends the great "Morgan raid." The family are all as well as
                                    usual. There is no other news of importance. Let Hie Craft read this and it will
                                    answer for both. I would like to be hearing from Spig soon as he has not written for
                                    sometime. Chun Carroll came home last week. He has been sick but is some better. He
                                    and Mary are now in town for a few days.
                        
                                    Your son,
                                    J. EBEKLE WEST
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY ROSTER
            
               
                  OFFICERS
               
               
                  President
                  James A. Woodburn
               
               
                  First Vice-President
                  Evans Woollen
               
               
                  Second Vice-President
                  William E. English
               
               
                  Third Vice- President
                  Harlow Lindley
               
               
                  Secretary
                  Jacob Piatt Dunn
               
               
                  Treasurer
                  Charles E. Coffin
               
               
                  Assistant Secretary and Treasurer
                  Lucy M. Elliott
               
            
            
               Executive Committee: Lee Burns, L. N. Hines, Amos 
                        Butler
                    , Mrs. Frank Athon Morrison, Herriott C. Palmer
            
               Publication Committee: James A. Woodburn, Lee Burns, Herriott C. Palmer
            
               Legislative Committee: Evans Woollen, Harlow Lindley, Lee Burns
            
               
                  HONORARY MEMBERS
               
               
                  Beveridge, Albert J., 4164 
                                Washington
                             Blvd
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bowers, Claude G
                  
                     
                                New York
                             City
               
               
                  Cottman, George S., 336 N. Ritter Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  LIFE MEMBERS
               
               
                  Higgins, Jack (Honorary)
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Marmon, Mrs. Elizabeth, 970 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Robinson, Miss Mary Yandes, 1801 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  SUSTAINING MEMBERS
               
               
                  Darrach, E. H., 1502 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  ANNUAL MEMBERS
               
               
                  Adams, J. D., 516 W. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Adams, Mrs. Josephine, 1248 Monument St.
                  
                            
                                Noblesville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Adams, Thad S.
                  
                            
                                Danville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Adams, Will H., 418—419 State House
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ade, George
                  Brook
               
               
                  Adler, Phil
                  
                            
                                Lebanon
                            
                        
               
               
                  Agnew, Daniel, 917 
                                Monroe
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Rochester
                            
                        
               
               
                  Alber, Miss 
                                Georgia
                            , 467 N. 
                                Huntington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Alexander, Mrs. Nelle G. Boruff
                  
                            
                                Bedford
                            
                        
               
               
                  Alldredge, Henry D.
                  Vallonia
               
               
                  Allemong, Miss Nell, 10 N. Keystone Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Allen, Hamlet, 310 E. Flora St.
                  
                            
                                Washington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Allison, Ebert
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Almond, James E.
                  Wheaton, Ill.
               
               
                  Alsop, George R.
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Alspaugh, Mrs. Marie, 339 N. Mill St.
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Alter, John E., R. R. 2
                  
                            
                                Rensselaer
                            
                        
               
               
                  Alvord, Katharine S., De Pauw University
                  
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                        
               
               
                  Anderson, Miss Alice, 32 1/2 Monument Circle
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Anderson, Carl
                  
                            
                                Spencer
                            
                        
               
               
                  Anderson, Mrs. Carl
                  
                            
                                Spencer
                            
                        
               
               
                  Anderson, Mrs. S. M., R. R. 3
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Anderson, Rev. W. E., 122 W. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Anderson, Will H.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Andrew, Abram Piatt, 1002 Second Ave.
                  
                            
                                La Porte
                            
                        
               
               
                  Andrew, Mrs. Ida A., 1007 State St.
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Andrews, John R.
                  
                            
                                Bedford
                            
                        
               
               
                  Andrews, Kate F.
                  Seymour
               
               
                  Anthony, Mrs. C. H., 211 E. Adams St.
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Arnold, Charles
                  
                            
                                Huntington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Arrick, Mrs. Sarah
                  
                            
                                Goodland
                            
                        
               
               
                  Askew, Mrs. Harry E., 12 W. 17th St.
                  
                            
                                Bedford
                            
                        
               
               
                  Austin, Miss Lelah
                  English
               
               
                  Baber, Mrs. Nelle L., 218 E. 5th St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Backman, Mrs. Lucie du Chemin, 336 Sunnyside Ave.
                  
                            
                                Aurora
                            
                        
               
               
                  Baer, Bess T., 594 W. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bailey, G. L.
                  
                            
                                Ridgeville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bailey, Mrs. Robert
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Baker, Mrs. Fannie, 1701 N. 
                                New Jersey
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Baker, Mrs. Mae C.
                  
                            
                                Huntington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Baker, Miss Maysel O.
                  Worthington
               
               
                  Balcom, Frank S., 3634 Birchwood Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Baldwin, Mrs. Elizabeth M., 234 E. Pratt St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ball, A. J., Room 225, State House
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ball, E. Arthur
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ball, E. B.
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ball, Mrs. Frank C.
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ball, George A.
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ball, Miss Lucy
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ball, Mrs. W. C.
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ballard, Mrs. Mary E., 324 First St.
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Barce, Elmore
                  Fowler
               
               
                  Barker, W. L.
                  Boonville
               
               
                  Barkley, Miss Ida D., 1824 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Barkley, Leland
                  
                            
                                Odon
                            
                        
               
               
                  Barnett, John T., 155 E. Market St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Barnett, Mrs. Nita
                  Kewanna
               
               
                  Barnhill, Dr. John F., 2008 N. 
                                Alabama
                             St
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Barnhill, Mrs. John F., 2008 N. 
                                Alabama
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Barr
                            , Mrs. Esther C., 388 S. Arlington St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Barr
                            , Paul
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Barry, Charles L., 3302 
                                Washington
                             Blvd.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Earth, Mrs. Homer E.
                  
                            
                                North Vernon
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Bartholomew
                            , H. S. K.
                  
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bass, George F., 801 Hume Mansur Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bates, Hervey, Jr., 1221 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bates, William O., Woodruff Place
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Baxter, Mrs. Alice, 75 N. Audubon Road
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bayless, Miss Laura E.
                  
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                        
               
               
                  Beale, Fred R.
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Beardsley, Mrs. Helen M., 226 E. Beardsley Ave.
                  
                            
                                Elkhart
                            
                        
               
               
                  Beck, Mrs. Janie G., 1428 N. 
                                New Jersey
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Beck, William S., 1831 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Beecher, Adrian A., 523 1/2 
                                Wabash
                             Ave.
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Beitman, Edward, 108 E. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Beitman, Mrs. Isaac, Brookwood
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Benham, Mrs. Cora, 
                                Valparaiso
                             University
                  
                            
                                Valparaiso
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bennett, Henry W., 1023 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Benson, Mrs. Emma F.
                  Vernon
               
               
                  Bent, Mrs. Clara H., 407 N. Fisher St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Berkey, Edwin G.
                  
                            
                                Salem
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bernhardt, Mrs. Ada L., Morrison Reeves Library
                  
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Berton, F. E.
                  
                            
                                Elkhart
                            
                        
               
               
                  Berry, Mrs. Josephine K., 85 Seventh St.
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bex, M. N.
                  Williams
               
               
                  Bicknell, Mrs. Cora McDermott, 333 S. Rural St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Biggerstaff, Dr. J. T.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bigler, 
                                Warren
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bingham, Mrs. James, 1304 N. 
                                Alabama
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Binkley, Mrs. Georgiana H., 402 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bippus, J. T.
                  
                            
                                Huntington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Birch, Jesse S.
                  
                            
                                Oxford
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bittner, W. S., Indiana University
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Black, James C., 304 W. 13th St.
                  Anderson
               
               
                  Bloomer, Ellis, 426 N. 
                                Huntington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Blount, Mrs. Frank M.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Blumberg, Benjamin, 712 S. 5th St.
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bodemer, Miss Lena, No. 37, The Wyandot
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bohannon, Anna L.
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bone, Mrs. Charles, 140 N. Grant St.
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Boney, Rev. Edward M.
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                        Boone, Franklin
                      M., 216 W. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bowen, Mrs. Caroline F., 404 E. Main St.
                  Delphi
               
               
                  Bowers, John O., 525 
                                Van
                             Buren St.
                  Gary
               
               
                  Bowman, Margaret Elva
                  Edinburg
               
               
                  Boyd, Miss Parmelia
                  Scottsburg
               
               
                  Bradley, Charles E., 120 W. Sinclair St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bradley, Mrs. Charles E.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bradley, Mrs. Mary A., 701 W. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Brady, Arthur
                  Anderson
               
               
                  Brady, Miss Florence M., North 
                                Wabash
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Brady, Mrs. Will, R. R. 5
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Branson, George
                  
                            
                                Brazil
                            
                        
               
               
                  Brayton, Dr. Alembert W., 2125 
                                Broadway
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Breen, William P., 913 Calhoun St.
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  Brennan, George A., 24 W. 110th Place
                  
                     
                                Chicago
                            , Ill.
               
               
                  Brenneman, Mrs. John Forrest, 336 N. Chauncey St.
                  
                     
                                Columbia
                             City
               
               
                  Briggs, Herbert, 503 S. 3d St.
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Brock, Miss Ola B.
                  
                            
                                Oakland City
                            
                        
               
               
                  Broderick, Mary F.
                  Montezuma
               
               
                  Brooks, Daisy, No. 203 The Ardmore
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Brooks, Mrs. Thomas J., 1318 W. Fourteenth St.
                  
                            
                                Bedford
                            
                        
               
               
                  Brooks, William H., R. R.
                  Orleans
               
               
                  Brouillette, Maurice A., R. R. 1
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Brown
                            , Mrs. A. C.
                  Pennville
               
               
                  
                     
                                Brown
                            , Mrs. Agnes Fletcher, Beechwood Circle
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                                Brown
                            , Austin H., 4401 N. 
                                Illinois
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Brown
                            , Charles W.
                  La Grange
               
               
                  
                     
                                Brown
                            , Miss Marianna
                  Carmel
               
               
                  
                     
                                Brown
                            , Mrs. William J., Winter Apt. N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Browne, 
                                Chester
                             G., 
                                Columbia
                             Club
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Browning, Miss Eliza Gordon, City Library
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bruner, Alfred W.
                  Paoli
               
               
                  Bruner, Mrs. Thomas H., 645 W. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bruner, Mrs. Olive B.
                  Carmel
               
               
                  Bryan, W. L., Indiana University
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Buchanan, Charles J., 320 N. 
                                Illinois
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Buckley, Mrs. Charles, 207 Cottage Ave.
                  Delphi
               
               
                  Burnet, Mrs. H. B., 1864 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Burns, Mrs. Elmer, 807 
                                Pike
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Burton, J. Edgar, 124 W. 14th St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Buskirk, Thomas B., Sr.
                  Paoli
               
               
                  
                     
                                Butler
                            , Amos W., 52 Downey Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Butler
                            , Chauncey, Interlachen
                  
                            
                                Florida
                            
                        
               
               
                  Buttz, Dr. Rose J., 3227 Bellefontaine St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Bynum, Mrs. Cora O.
                  
                            
                                Lebanon
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cagwin, Mrs. Creed, 646 E. 33d St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Caldwell
                            , Miss Bessie, Librarian
                  Martinsville
               
               
                  
                     
                                Campbell
                            , Horace
                  
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Campbell
                            , Marvin, 903 S. Main St.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Carey, Mrs. John N., 1150 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Carlin, Clyde C.
                  
                            
                                Angola
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Carlisle
                            , Mrs. C. A.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Carney, John Ralph
                  Vernon
               
               
                  Carr, Arthur B., 1927 N. 
                                New Jersey
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Carter, Dr. Amos.
                  
                            
                                Rockville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Carter, Mrs. Elva J.
                  
                            
                                Rockville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Carter, Jennie B., 
                                Virginia
                             Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Carter, Vinson, 1034 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cartwright, Mrs. Mary Coulson, 5717 Central Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Case, Mrs. J. D.
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Catterson, Mrs. Jean McOuat, 3243 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cauble, Mrs. Elizabeth E.
                  
                            
                                Salem
                            
                        
               
               
                  Chamness, Miss Ivy L., Indiana University
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Chapman, A. S
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
               
               
                  Chappell, Dr. Ralph S., 305 Terminal Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cheney, John C.
                  Sullivan
               
               
                  Christman, Thomas E.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Clark, Annette L.
                  New 
                                Albany
                            
                  
               
               
                  Clark, Miss Minnie
                  
                            
                                Salem
                            
                        
               
               
                  Clark, C. S.
                  Attica
               
               
                  Clarke, Mrs. Grace Julian, 115 S. Audubon Road
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Clearwaters, Rev. John F.
                  Romney
               
               
                  Clifford, George S., 716 S. 1st St.
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cline, Dr. and Mrs. L. C., 5616 Central Ave.
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Clow, Mrs. E. L.
                  West 
                                Lebanon
                            
                  
               
               
                  Coate, Luther L., 507 W. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Coate, Rose, 507 W. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cockrum, W. M., 703 W. Oak St.
                  
                            
                                Oakland City
                            
                        
               
               
                  Coffin, Mrs. Annie R., 1920 E. Ocean Blvd.
                  Long Beach, Cal.
               
               
                  Coffin, Charles E.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Coffin, Miss Florence Worth, 1920 E. Ocean Blvd.
                  Long Beach, Cal.
               
               
                  Coffing, Mrs. W. B.
                  
                            
                                Covington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Colbert, Miss Emma, 609 E. 23d St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cole, B. W., 5610 E. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cole, V. L., 516 Lockerbie St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Coleman, Lewis A., Lemcke Annex
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Coleman, Mrs. W. H., 1006 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Collins, Miss Caroline Vajen, 1321 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Collins, Mrs. H. H., 835 Cedar Bough
                  New 
                                Albany
                            
                  
               
               
                  Comstock, Paul
                  
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Condo, Gus S.
                  
                            
                                Marion
                            
                        
               
               
                  Conner, Mrs. Annie K., 518 West 
                                Wabash
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Conner, J. D., Jr.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Conner, Ovid W., 518 North 
                                Wabash
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cook, Mrs. Lura M., 107 Sherman Ave.
                  Mansfield, 
                                Ohio
                            
                  
               
               
                  Cook, Mrs. Sarah Skillen, 550 Sutherland Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Corboy, Catharine, 501 E. 
                                Monroe
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Valparaiso
                            
                        
               
               
                  Corey, Mrs. C. W., 526 W. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  
                     
                                Hartford
                             City
               
               
                  Coulter, Stanley, Purdue University
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cowan, Dr. E. E.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cowgill, Mrs. Marie S., 18 E. Sinclair St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Cowgill, Mrs. Norene D., 463 Stitt St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cox, Mrs. Mary E.
                  
                            
                                Elwood
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cox, Miles S.
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cox, R. A.
                  Seymour
               
               
                  Cox, William N.
                  Bloomingdale
               
               
                  Craft, Mrs. Eliza F. Ogle
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
               
               
                  Craig, Mrs. Robert C., 16 Maplewood Court
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Grain, J. E., 2202 North St.
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cravens, Miss Drusilla
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cravens, John W., Indiana University
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Creigmile, Robert A.
                  
                            
                                Osgood
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cressler, Miss Isabel, Elmhurst B
                  
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Crosbie, Hadley M., 79 Milk St.
                  
                     
                                Boston
                            , Mass.
               
               
                  Crumrine, P. E., 254 N. Miami St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cruse, Agnes, 409 Chamber of Commerce
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cunningham, Mrs. Adda, 5634 Guilford St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Curry, Charles M., State Normal School
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Daily, Thomas A., 1003 Lemcke Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Daly, Miss Grace
                  
                            
                                Oakland City
                            
                        
               
               
                  Daniels, J. J., 1734 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Daniels, Mrs. J. J., 1734 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Darnall, M. C., 255 Stitt St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Darroch, William
                  
                            
                                Kentland
                            
                        
               
               
                  Daugherty, Mrs. Eva, 462 N. Cass St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Daugherty, James A.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Davidson, Miss Ella, Librarian
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Davis, Mrs. Joseph W.
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  Davis, Lawrence B., 860 
                                Broadway
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Davis, W. S.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dawes, Rev. Ira
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Day, David I., 2619 Blvd. Place.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Deam, Charles C.
                  Bluffton
               
               
                  Dean, Mrs. Ella M., 1114 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dean, John C.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Decker, D. N., R. R. No. 3
                  Bluffton
               
               
                  Decker, John F.
                  Bluffton
               
               
                  Deeds, Mabel L., Librarian
                  
                            
                                Oxford
                            
                        
               
               
                  Deery, James E., 1250 Consolidated Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  De Moss, Mrs. Karl S., 826 N. Beville Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dennis, Lalan M.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Denny, James T.
                  
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                        
               
               
                  Detzer, Mrs. A. J., 910 W. 
                                Wayne
                             St.
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  Dick, Mrs. Jacob, 1068 N. Jefferson St.
                  
                            
                                Huntington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dickey, Marcus
                  
                            
                                Nashville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dickover, Mark L.
                  
                            
                                Valparaiso
                            
                        
               
               
                  Diffenderfer, Miss Katie, Librarian
                  
                            
                                Covington
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Dillan, Florence Eva, 817 Hume Mansur Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dilley, James L., 2128 N. Wheeler St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dinwiddie, Mrs. John Lee.
                  Fowler
               
               
                  Domer, Walter, 317 Division St.
                  
                            
                                Elkhart
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dooley, Rufus.
                  
                            
                                Rockville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dooley, Mrs. Rufus.
                  
                            
                                Rockville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dorsey, Robert L., 4466 Guilford Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Douglas, Mrs. Mary C., 307 E. Main St.
                  Attica
               
               
                  Downs, Thomas E.
                  Boonville
               
               
                  Dunbar, James W., 507 Bank St.
                  New 
                                Albany
                            
                  
               
               
                  Dunlop, Mrs. G. Quincey, 3493 Birchwild Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dunn, Jacob Piatt, 915 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Durbin, Mrs. H. C., 84 Conger Ave.
                  Akron, 
                                Ohio
                            
                  
               
               
                  Earl, Elijah J.
                  Attica
               
               
                  Earl, Mrs. Elizabeth Claypool, 608 E. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Earp, Samuel E., 634 Occidental Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Eastman, Carl C.
                  Deputy
               
               
                  Ebbinghouse, Mrs. A. F.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Edwards, Mrs. Alice
                  Peru
               
               
                  Edwards, R. A.
                  Peru
               
               
                  Egnew, James W.
                  Lagro
               
               
                  Eikenberry, Edward E., 344 W. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Eiler, H. E., 180 Walnut St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Elbel, Fred, 321 N. 
                                Michigan
                             St.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Elder, Mrs. Laura B., 921 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Elliott, Miss Helen, Apt. 46 The Blacherne.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Elliott, Joseph H.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Elliott, Lucy M., Room 334, State House.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Elliott, Margaret M., Indiana Women's Prison.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Elliott, Mrs. Phoebe.
                  
                            
                                New Harmony
                            
                        
               
               
                  Emerson, Dr. Charles P., 602 Hume Mansur Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Emison, Estelle, 411 N. Fourth St.
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Emison, Mrs. James, 411 N. Fourth St.
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Emmert, P. J.
                  
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                        
               
               
                  English, William E., English Hotel.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Epstein, Moses.
                  
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                        
               
               
                  Esarey, Logan, Indiana University.
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Evans, Mrs. Mary B., 302 Waldron.
                  West 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
               
               
                  Ewbank, Judge Louis B., Room 320 State House.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ewbank, Miss Nellie A.
                  Guilford
               
               
                  Fairbanks, Adelaide, Spink Arms.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Farmer, Miss Hallie, Ball Teachers College.
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Fauvre, Frank M., 407 
                                Marion
                             Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feallock, Mrs. W. J., 402 E. 8th St.
                  
                     
                                Michigan
                             City
               
               
                  Feightner, Milo.
                  
                            
                                Huntington
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Felter, Mrs. Frank.
                  
                            
                                Huntington
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Fenton
                            , Mrs. C. O.
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ferger, Mrs. Mariah Bradley, 104 E. Maple Road.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ferguson, Dr. C. E., 412 E. 17th St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Fernald, Mrs. Wilmont L., 700 North St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feudner, Will O.
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feuerlicht, Rev. Morris M., 3034 
                                Washington
                             Blvd.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Fiers, James Walter.
                  Red Key
               
               
                  Finch, Miss Alice, 1605 N. Talbott Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Firestone, Miss Alda
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  Fitch, Mrs. Clara Heaton, 2541 Cherokee Parkway.
                  
                     
                                Louisville
                            , Ky.
               
               
                  Fitch, Mrs. Mary H. S.
                  Spades
               
               
                  Clanner, Frank B., 320 N. 
                                Illinois
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Fleming, Mrs. Luella H.
                  West 
                                Lebanon
                            
                  
               
               
                  Fletcher, Robert M., 627 W. Drive Woodruff Place.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Fogel, Mrs. Louise Tyrrel.
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  Ford, Miss Carolyn, 618 W. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ford, Mrs. Edwin H., 437 N. Miami St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Forrey, George C., Jr., 226 E. 15th St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Forsyth, Edgar T., Shortridge High School.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Fortune, Will, 409 Chamber of Commerce.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Foster, David N., 715 Court.
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  Foster, Glen E.
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Foster, Mrs. Harriet McIntire, 1443 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Foster, Samuel M.
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  Foulk, Miss Fannie S., 402 George St.
                  
                            
                                Aurora
                            
                        
               
               
                  Foulke, William Dudley
                  
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Fox, George R.
                  Three Oaks, Mich.
               
               
                  Fox, Stella R., 619 N. 
                                Salisbury
                             St.
                  West 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
               
               
                  Frazer, Harriett D.
                  
                            
                                Warsaw
                            
                        
               
               
                  Frederick, J. E.
                  
                            
                                Kokomo
                            
                        
               
               
                  Fretageot, Mrs. Nora.
                  
                            
                                New Harmony
                            
                        
               
               
                  Frieze, David, 565 
                                Pike
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Funkhouser, Albert W., 1300 
                                Madison
                             Ave.
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gaar, Mrs. W. W., Westcott Hotel.
                  
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gaesser, Theo. T.
                  
                            
                                Troy
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gamble, Mrs. Alice Jeaneatte.
                  Scottsburg
               
               
                  Garber, Miss Blanche A., 1501 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Garber, Miss Nora, 46 W. Canal St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gardner, A. M.
                  
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Garrison, Dollie.
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  Garvin, Thomas E., 1409 Fletcher Trust Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gary, Abraham L.
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gavin, Frank E., 1004 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gavisk, Rev. Francis H., St. John's Church.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Geist, Rev. C. E.
                  
                            
                                Urbana
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Gignilliat, Gen. Leigh R., Culver Military Academy
                  Culver
               
               
                  Gilpin, Levi L.
                  
                            
                                Portland
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gipson, Prof. L. H., 
                                Wabash
                             College
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gladden, Elijah A.
                  Scottsburg
               
               
                  Glascock, Miss Verna
                  
                            
                                Covington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Glosbrenner, Harry W., 250 W. 
                                Ohio
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Goble, W. C.
                  Swayzee
               
               
                  Goodwin, Frances M., 320 S. Main St.
                  
                            
                                New Castle
                            
                        
               
               
                  Goodwine, Mrs. Dora B.
                  West 
                                Lebanon
                            
                  
               
               
                  Goodwine, Mrs. Julia A.
                  West 
                                Lebanon
                            
                  
               
               
                  Gottfried, Blanche L., 722 William St.
                  
                            
                                Oakland City
                            
                        
               
               
                  Graham, Mrs. C. R., Box 64
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  Graham, John N.
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gray, A. L.
                  
                            
                                Huntingburg
                            
                        
               
               
                  Green, Clarence
                  
                            
                                Auburn
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Greene
                            , C. S.
                  
                     
                                Evanston
                            , Wyoming
               
               
                  Greenough, Walter S., 556 E. 
                                Fall Creek
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Greenwood, W. J., 901 Hume Mansur Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gregg, O. M., 112 N. Water St.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Greist, O. H.
                  Winchester
               
               
                  Greist, William, 416 E. High St.
                  
                            
                                Portland
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gresham, Otto, 1727 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Griffin, Jennie
                  Corydon
               
               
                  Griswold, B. J.
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  Grosvenor, Mrs. E. B., 26 N. 11th St
                  
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Groves, Thomas
                  West 
                                Lebanon
                            
                  
               
               
                  Groves, Mrs. Thomas
                  West 
                                Lebanon
                            
                  
               
               
                  Guernsey, E. Y.
                  
                            
                                Bedford
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gumert, E. W., 230 W. Market St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Guthrie, W. A., 10 E. Market St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Guthrie, William
                  
                            
                                Monticello
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gwin, Mrs. John I.
                  
                            
                                Rensselaer
                            
                        
               
               
                  Haas, Charles S.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hadley, Miss Anna R., Mesilla Park
                  
                            
                                New Mexico
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hadley, Miss Bernice
                  
                            
                                Spencer
                            
                        
               
               
                  Haigerty, J. M.
                  Loogootee
               
               
                  Haines, George W.
                  Clarks Hill
               
               
                  Haines, Rev. Mathias, 1408 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Halberstadt, Loring C., 2435 S. 8th St.
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hall, Arthur F.
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  Hall, G. W.
                  
                            
                                Portland
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hall, Dr. Homer J.
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hamell, M. S., 618 Deming St.
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Hamilton
                            , Ed C., 201 E. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Hamilton
                            , Mrs. Fannie, 2011 N. 
                                Alabama
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Hamilton
                            , Dr. Frank A., 505 Hume Mansur Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  
                     
                                Hamilton
                            , R. I., 910 Lemcke Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hanley, Mrs. C. W.
                  
                            
                                Rensselaer
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hannah, Mrs. Helen R., 848 W. 
                                New York
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hargesheimer, Mrs. Cora B. T., Box 33
                  Vernon
               
               
                  Harrah, P. J.
                  
                            
                                Bloomfield
                            
                        
               
               
                  Harrell, Mrs. S. S..
                  
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Harris, Mrs. 
                                India
                            , 1444 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Harris, Mrs. Rachael K., 235 W. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  Sullivan
               
               
                  Hartley, Mrs. Chas. S., 316 E. 3d St.
                  New 
                                Albany
                            
                  
               
               
                  Harvey, Rowena
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  Hassmer, Joseph A., R. R. 2
                  
                            
                                Osgood
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hastings, Mrs. Cora, 700 E. 
                                Van
                             Trees St.
                  
                            
                                Washington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Haworth, C. V.
                  
                            
                                Kokomo
                            
                        
               
               
                  Haymond, Claude J., 861 W. 29th St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hays, Arthur H.
                  Bruneau, 
                                Idaho
                            
                  
               
               
                  Hays, Mrs. B. F.
                  Worthington
               
               
                  Heimbo, Mrs. Mima, 448 Bright St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Heineman, J. L.
                  
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Heiskell, Mrs. William L., 3360 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Helms, G. L., City Trust Co.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hendricks, Thomas A., 2518 
                                Broadway
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Henley, Miss Eunice D., 24 E. 32d St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Henley, Faye, 24 E. 32d St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Henley, William H.
                  
                            
                                Carthage
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hepburn, William H.
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Herron, Mrs. C. S., 1412 N. 
                                Alabama
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hershman, W. H., Room 150 State House.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hibberd, Carl L., 616 Park Ave.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hobberd, John A.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hickman, Russell
                  
                            
                                Noblesville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hiestand, Miss Lois R.
                  Pennville
               
               
                  Hiigel, W. S., Box 47
                  
                            
                                Covington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hill, Mrs. Ella McNeely, 814 Riverside Ave.
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hill, William A., 29 Highland Ave.
                  
                            
                                Hammond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hilles, Mrs. Howard.
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  Hills, C. C., Hume Mansur Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hines, L. N., State Normal
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hipskind, George C.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hipskind, John, 309 Walnut St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hitz, Benjamin D., 1922 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hitz, Mrs. Elizabeth H., 1922 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hoagland, Miss Mercia Evans, 1516 N. 
                                Alabama
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hobbs, C. M.
                  
                            
                                Plainfield
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hobbs, E. M. C., 2432 Park Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hobbs, Mrs. Lenora N., Box 123
                  Bloomingdale
               
               
                  Hobbs, Mrs. Martha Sayles, 205 N. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Salem
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hockett, Mrs. Leola, 1329 Jones St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Hodde, Miss Minnie, 1138 N. 
                                Oxford
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hogan, William J., 238 S. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Holland, Mrs. Ella A., 417 E. 31st St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Holland, Miss Margaret C.
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Holliday, Alex R., 1235 N. 
                                New Jersey
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Holliday, Elias S.
                  
                            
                                Brazil
                            
                        
               
               
                  Holliday, Mrs. J. S., 1010 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Holnian, George W.
                  
                            
                                Rochester
                            
                        
               
               
                  Holmes, C. O.
                  Gary
               
               
                  Holmes, Mrs. Ira M., Route K, Box 165-C.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Honeywell, M. C., 394 N. 
                                Wabash
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Honeywell, Mrs. Olive L., 394 N. 
                                Wabash
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Howe, Miss Sue, 1403 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hudson, Mrs. Jessie L., R. R. 5
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Huebner, Miss Elsa, 2406 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hufford, Mrs. Lois G., 1217 Parke Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Huffstetter, H. C., 2350 N. 
                                New Jersey
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hugg, Martin, 234 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hughes, Mrs. Sallie C., Librarian
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hulse, Edwin M.
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  Hunt, Charles A.
                  
                            
                                Jeffersonville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hunter, Mrs. R. W.
                  
                            
                                Oakland City
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hurst, C. C.
                  
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hurty, Dr. J. N., 31 E. 11th St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hussey, Mrs. Mary B., 735 W. Drive Woodruff Place.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Iglehart, A. W., 1025 Upper Second St.
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Iglehart, John E.
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Insley, William H., 445 N. Audubon Road.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Irwin, William G.
                  
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                        
               
               
                  Iske, Miss Louise M., 629 S. 
                                New Jersey
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jackson, D. H.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jackson, Miss Grace, 136 E. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jacobs, A. M.
                  Kendallville
               
               
                  Jeffries, Mrs. Jennie Forsyth, 5329 University Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jenkins, Mrs. W. A., 3258 
                                Broadway
                            .
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Johnson, Mrs. Charles, 531 Mulberry St.
                  
                            
                                Mt. Vernon
                            
                        
               
               
                  Johnson, Emsley M., 3328 N. 
                                New Jersey
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Johnson, Grafton
                  Greenwood
               
               
                  Johnson, John W.
                  Patriot
               
               
                  Johnson, Mrs. Martha C., 253 W. 
                                Madison
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jones, Frankie I., 109 E. 6th St.
                  Bicknell
               
               
                  Jones, Louis T., Route 4, Box 43
                  
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Judah, John M., 949 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Judah, Samuel B.
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kabel, Philip
                  Winchester
               
               
               
                  Kackley, Mrs. T. R., 1321 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kappes, William P., Room 204 Federal Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kautz, F. R., 4059 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Keatley, Alice, 922 College Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kehrer, Mrs. Ella Bagot, 211 E. 10th St.
                  Anderson
               
               
                  Keller, Chas. P.
                  
                            
                                Brazil
                            
                        
               
               
                  Keller, H. W.
                  
                            
                                Troy
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kelly, Daniel E.
                  
                            
                                Valparaiso
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kemkel, W. A., Jr., 124 1/2 W. Market St.
                  Bluffton
               
               
                  Kemper, G. W. H., 1239 E. 
                                Orange
                             Grove Ave.
                  Pasadena, Cal.
               
               
                  Kennedy, Mrs. Bernays, 1030 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Kent
                            , Carroll C.
                  
                            
                                Kentland
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kerr, Charles I., 831 Williams St.
                  
                            
                                Oakland City
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Kershner
                            , Mrs. Jessie C., 79 The Rink
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kessinger, C. R.
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ketcham, Mrs. William, 4139 N. Capitol Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kettring, Mrs. E. G., 767 Oliver Bldg.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kimble, H. V., 215 E. South St.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kimble, Mrs. Martha, Librarian
                  
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kinder, Mrs. 
                                Virginia
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kiper, Mrs. Nannette.
                  Boonville
               
               
                  Kirk, Charles C., Box 181
                  Lyons
               
               
                  Kirkpatrick, Miss Margaret
                  
                            
                                Rockville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kistler, Rev. Edward Haines, 5121 Kenwood Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Klare, R. W.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Knotts, A. F.
                  Gary
               
               
                  Koerner, Mrs. Louis T.
                  
                            
                                Jasper
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kolff, Mr. and Mrs. Dirk H. A.
                  Bridgeport
               
               
                  Korbly, Mrs. Margaret Crim, 425 N. Audubon Road
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kramer, Mrs. Charles F., 3611 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kraus, 
                                Milton
                             M. C..
                  Peru
               
               
                  Kregelo, Mrs. Laura E., 1902 N. 
                                Illinois
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Kretschman, Harry
                  Otterbein
               
               
                  Krull, Mrs. Frederic, 1433 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  L'Amoreaux, Mrs. Sophie, 223 E. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Landers, W. F., 1832 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lansford, Miss Naomi
                  
                            
                                Oakland City
                            
                        
               
               
                  Latchem, Miss Lucy
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  La Tourette, Fred C., R. R. 4
                  
                            
                                Covington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lawrence, Ellis, 521 E. 22d St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Leak, Roscoe R.
                  Lizton
               
               
                  Leavitt, A. E.
                  Harriman, Tenn.
               
               
                  Lee, Mary E., 1210 N. Tacoma St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Leete, Bishop F. D., 3620 
                                Washington
                             Blvd.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Legg, Byron
                  Windfall
               
               
                  Lemon, Charles M., 150 E. Market St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Lentz, Florence, 417 W. Howard St.
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lenz, Karl P., 2105 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lesh, Charles P., 3650 Central Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lesh, Miss Charlotte, 3650 Central Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lesh, Mrs. Ora Wilkins, 3650 Central Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Levor, Mrs. Rachael, 401 E. Jackson St.
                  Attica
               
               
                  Lieber, Carl H., 1205 N. 
                                Alabama
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lieber, Herman P., 24 W. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lilly, Eli K., 1239 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lilly, Josiah K., c/o Eli K. Lilly.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lindley, Harlow, Room 334, State House.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lindsay, George D.
                  
                            
                                Marion
                            
                        
               
               
                  Linson, Miss Daisy M.
                  
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                        
               
               
                  Llewellyn, S. B.
                  De Motte
               
               
                  Locke, Anna M., 1923 N. 
                                Illinois
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lockridge, Ross F., 649 W. Creighton Ave.
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  Lockwood, George B., 425 Tenth St. Northwest
                  
                     
                                Washington
                            , D. C.
               
               
                  Lockwood, Virgil H., 1909 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Loehr, William Gray, 1181/2 S. Buffalo St.
                  
                            
                                Warsaw
                            
                        
               
               
                  Logan, Harley A.
                  
                            
                                Plymouth
                            
                        
               
               
                  Long, B. F.
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lowe, Judge C. A.
                  
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lamaree, Mrs. Lydia Leroy
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lupton, A. J.
                  
                     
                                Hartford
                             City
               
               
                  Lynch, William O., Indiana University
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  MacConnell, F. M.
                  
                            
                                Warsaw
                            
                        
               
               
                  MacFall, Russell T., 1216 State Life Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  McBride, Robert W., 1239 State Life Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  McCarty, Mrs. Ida Helen
                  Pennville
               
               
                  McCarty, Miss Margaret
                  Pennville
               
               
                  McClarren, Mr. and Mrs. J. T.
                  Corydon
               
               
                  McCollough, Ethel F., Librarian
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  McComb, E. H. Kemper, Emmerich Man. Tr. High School
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  McConnell, Maude W., M. D.
                  Sullivan
               
               
                  McCoy, Daily E.
                  
                            
                                Versailles
                            
                        
               
               
                  McCoy, Mrs. Harriett A., Arlington Apartment 8
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  McCray, E. E.
                  Kendallville
               
               
                  McCray, 
                                Franklin
                            , 216-217 Baldwin Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  McCray, Gov. 
                                Warren
                             T., State House
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  McCulloch, J. R., First National Bank
                  Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  McCullough, Miss Retta, Librarian
                  
                            
                                Oakland City
                            
                        
               
               
                  McEwen, Jane, R. R. 10
                  
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                        
               
               
                  McGalliard, Alexander, Sr., P. O. Box 307
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  McIlwain, Frank
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
                  McKee, Edward L., 1443 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  McKee, Mrs. James, 49 W. Seventy-second St.
                  
                     
                                New York
                             City
               
               
               
                  McKinney, Charles R.
                  Newtown
               
               
                  McKinsey, Mrs. Arthur, 309 S. Jackson St.
                  
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                        
               
               
                  McLaughlin, Miss Effie
                  Goldsmith
               
               
                  McMasters, W. S., Indiana Trust Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  McNamee, W. A.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  McNeil, Miss Hallie, 919 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  McNitt, Miss Esther, State Library, State House
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  McNitt, James
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  McPheeters, Thaddeus H., 52 N. Audubon Road
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  McWhirter, Mrs. Luelia F., 1455 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Mace, William H., 1125 Westover Ave.
                  Norfolk, Va.
               
               
                  Maddock, Wm. B., 
                                Bloomfield
                             News
                  
                            
                                Bloomfield
                            
                        
               
               
                  Maddox, Mrs. Charles B.
                  Otterbein
               
               
                  Maddox, Miss Margaret L., Oak Grove Club
                  Flint, Mich.
               
               
                  Mahaffey, Rees R., R. R. No. 1
                  Hartsville
               
               
                  Malott, Macy W., 558 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Manion, Miss Iva
                  
                            
                                Newport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Mansfield, Robert E., 619 N. Perkins St.
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Maple, Dr. James B.
                  Sullivan
               
               
                  Markle, A. R., Room 10, National Block
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Marlatt, Miss Mary C.
                  Winchester
               
               
                  Martin, Emma Y., 1720 Ekin Ave.
                  New 
                                Albany
                            
                  
               
               
                  Martin, Gary, 3035 Capitol Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Martin, Harvey B., 636 Highland Dr., Apt. 19
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Martin, Mrs. Minnie M.
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  Martindale, Charles, 1106 Fletcher Sav. & Trust Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Mason, Augustus M., 1006 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Mason, Dr. G. C.
                  
                            
                                Oakland City
                            
                        
               
               
                  Mason, William C., 219 LaPlante Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Matthews, Mrs. Sam J., Librarian
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Mavity, John M.
                  
                            
                                Valparaiso
                            
                        
               
               
                  May, Mrs. Annie L., 622 W. Tenth St.
                  Anderson
               
               
                  Mayer, Mrs. Charles, 1321 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Meissner, Miss Mary N., 905 Maple Ave.
                  LaPorte
               
               
                  Menaugh, Mrs. E. W., 301 S. High St.
                  
                            
                                Salem
                            
                        
               
               
                  Meredith, Milo R.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Meredith, Mrs. 
                                Virginia
                             C., 356 State St.
                  West 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
               
               
                  Mergg, Margaret M., 237 E. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Merill, Mrs. Charles W., 1125 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Merrill, H. V.
                  
                            
                                Odon
                            
                        
               
               
                  Merriman, Miss Gertrude, 672 Fourth Ave.
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Merry, Miss Blanche, 2645 College Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Metzger, Albert E., 3120 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Meyers, Mrs. H. P.
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Miesse, Miss Lulu M., Librarian
                  
                            
                                Noblesville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Miller, Mrs. Alma R., 514 S. Seventh St.
                  
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Miller, Charles F.
                  
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                        
               
               
                  Miller, Hugh Thomas
                  
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                        
               
               
                  Miller, Mrs. James J., 305 W. Union St.
                  Liberty
               
               
                  Miller, John R.
                  
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                        
               
               
                  Miller, M. Charles, 415 North St.
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Miller, Robert G.
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Miller, Mrs. Rose Wood, 1002 S. Seventh St.
                  
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                        
               
               
                  Miller, Miss Ruth J., 1344 Adams St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Miller, W. A.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Miller, Winfield, 3105 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Mitchell
                            , Roy, 322 W. Fourth St.
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Mitten, A. G., R. F. D. No. 1
                  
                            
                                Goodland
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moll, Judge T. J., 75 Court House
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moore, Miss Estella, 471 W. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moore, Ethel, 1525 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moore, Jesse C., 1821 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moore, Mrs. John E., 902 W. Mulberry St.
                  Kokorno
               
               
                  Moore, Miss Julia Harrison, 937 
                                Fairfield
                             Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moore, J. H., 114 S. Ritter Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moore, Dr. Perry G., 245 W. Market St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moorhead, Robert L., 18 E. 
                                Vermont
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moores, Merrill, 2020 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moran, Thomas F., Purdue University
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Morgan, Dewitt S., Arsenal Technical School
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Morgan, James G.
                  
                            
                                Plainfield
                            
                        
               
               
                  Morgan, J. Rollin
                  
                            
                                Kokomo
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moriarty, Mrs. George E., 228 E. Miami Ave.
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moritz, Moses
                  
                     
                                Michigan
                             City
               
               
                  Morris, Donald S., Fletcher Sav. & Tr. Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Morris, Mrs. Harvey
                  
                            
                                Salem
                            
                        
               
               
                  Morrison, Miss Dorothy
                  Scottsburg
               
               
                  Morrison, Mrs. Frank Athon, 1422 Park Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Morrison, Mrs. H. C., 730 S. Harrison St.
                  
                            
                                Shelbyville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Morrison, James W.
                  
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                        
               
               
                  Morton, Miss Ivory G., 2428 E. Tenth St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Mott, T. A.
                  Seymour
               
               
                  Mourer, John H.
                  Idaville
               
               
                  Moyer, Mrs. Lena
                  Montpelier
               
               
                  Moynahan, Mrs. Mary B., 1410 Park Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Mulbarger, Guy E.
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Mullenbeck, Miss Tonie
                  Worthington
               
               
                  Murphy, Maurice, 3344 N. Capitol Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Murray, G. E.
                  
                            
                                Rensselaer
                            
                        
               
               
                  Musselman, Mrs. Ella, Denison Hotel
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Myers, Mrs. Annie E.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Myers, John N.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Neff, Joseph E., 130 S. Scott St.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Neff, S. D.
                  
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Neighbors, Prof. O. J.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Nelson, Mrs. Mary C.
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  New, Harry S., Postmaster General
                  
                     
                                Washington
                            , D. C.
               
               
                  Newcomb, Florence S., 3057 
                                Broadway
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Newman, Mrs. Everett, 310 S. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Oakland City
                            
                        
               
               
                  Newsom, Mrs. Albert G., Highland Farm
                  
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                        
               
               
                  Newsom, Miss Vida
                  
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                        
               
               
                  Nicholson, Miss Elizabeth, 1233 
                                Broadway
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Nicholson, Meredith, 1321 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Niezer, Charles M.
                  Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  Nixon, D. M., 
                                Wabash
                             Plain Dealer
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Noel, Miss Elizabeth B., 1617 N. 
                                New Jersey
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Noel, James W., 919 Lemcke Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Noland, Mrs. John H., 836 W. 6th St.
                  Anderson
               
               
                  North, E. M., Principal High School
                  Neponset, Ill.
               
               
                  Northern Indiana His. Soc.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Northey, Miss Della F., Room 415 State House
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Norton, H. S., Gary Land Company
                  Gary
               
               
                  Nowlin, Ambrose E.
                  
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                        
               
               
                  Nue, Mrs. C. H.
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  O'Bannon, Lew M.
                  Corydon
               
               
                  O'Bannon, Mrs. Lew M.
                  Corydon
               
               
                  Obenauer, Mrs. Hattie S.
                  
                            
                                Decatur
                            
                        
               
               
                  Oblinger, Mrs. A. C., R. R. 1, Box 1
                  Pennville
               
               
                  O'Brien, William H.
                  
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                        
               
               
                  Odell, John C.
                  Delphi
               
               
                  O'Donnell, Mrs. Katharine, 313 Church St.
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  O'Flynn, Miss Anna C.
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  O'Keefe, Miss Esther Kathleen
                  
                            
                                Plymouth
                            
                        
               
               
                  Olive, George Scott, 3936 Central Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Oliver, Dr. John W., Room 714 University Club
                  Pittsburg, Pa.
               
               
                  Osborn, Arthur W.
                  
                            
                                Spiceland
                            
                        
               
               
                  Osborn, Kenneth D.
                  LaPorte
               
               
                  Otis, Fred B.
                  
                            
                                Bedford
                            
                        
               
               
                  Oval, Charles J., 700 W. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Painter, Carl
                  
                            
                                Middletown
                            
                        
               
               
                  Palmer, Miss Herriott C.
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
               
               
                  Parry, St. Clair, 3010 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Parsons, Mrs. Rosalind English, Apt. 128, Hotel English
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Paul, Miss Mary Elizabeth, 14 E. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pattin, Hiram B., 360 W. 
                                Broadway
                            
                  
                  
                     
                                Louisville
                            , Ky.
               
               
                  Patton, Miss Edith, 503 E. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Greensburg
                            
                        
               
               
                  Payne, Earl H.
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Payne, Fletcher A.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Payne, Gavin L., 126 E. Market St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Payne, Ralph, 307 Hibiscus Ave.
                  West Palm Beach, Fla.
               
               
                  Pearson, Dr. Ed.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pearson, Harley E.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pegee, Otto W.
                  
                            
                                Versailles
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pence, George
                  
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pentecost, Mrs. P. J.
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Perkins, Edgar A., 5457 Julian Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Perkins, S. E. III, 203 City Trust Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Perkins, Mrs. Samuel Elliott, 1011 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Perrin, Mrs. John, 1000 Buena Vista St.
                  South Pasadena, Cal.
               
               
                  Perrott, Ward
                  Linton
               
               
                  Perry, Oran, 1220 Central Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pershing, M. W., Room 105 State House
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Peterson, Mrs. Carrie B.
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  Peterson, C. V.
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pettijohn, S. A., 2220 Meridian St.
                  Anderson
               
               
                  Pettit, Mrs. Eva S., 180 E. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pfimmer, Samuel
                  Corydon
               
               
                  Phillips, Miss Joy, 1230 S. 11th St.
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Phillips, S. G.
                  
                            
                                Alexandria
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pickhardt, E. N.
                  
                            
                                Huntingburg
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pierce, Mrs. H. C.
                  Montezuma
               
               
                  
                     
                                Pike
                            , D. A.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pittenger, O. M., 42d and Monon R. R.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pollock, David, 807 E. Jefferson Blvd.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Porter, Mrs. S. F., Westleigh Farm, R. R. 11
                  Peru
               
               
                  Posson, Cornelius F., 817 Traction Terminal Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Powell, L. G. A.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Powell, Mrs. L. G. A.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Prince, Mrs. Estella Bolling
                  Brownstown
               
               
                  Probasco, Mrs. Margaret O., 419 L. Highway
                  
                            
                                Mishawaka
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Providence
                             Convent, 
                                St. Mary-of-the-Woods
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pugh, John W., 1933 E. Parkway Drive
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Purviance, D. E.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Pyle, Dan, 728 Leland Ave.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Race, Marvin Ethan, 2202 Ashland Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Rafiner, J. Austin
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Railsback, Mrs. Charles, 1628 N. 
                                Illinois
                             St.
                  Indianaoplis
               
               
                  Rainey, Miss Elizabeth, 1541 N. Gale St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ralston, Hon. Samuel M., Senate Office Bldg.
                  
                     
                                Washington
                            , D. C.
               
               
                  Ramsay, Frank R., 5345 W. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ramsey, Miss Katherine, 21 W. Maple St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Rappaport, Leo M., 609 Fletcher Sav. & Tr. Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ratts, Oscar, Room 401 State House
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Ray, Miss Minnie Belle, 1124 Victory Court
                  Anderson
               
               
                  Reade, Miss Anna R., 409 E. 31st St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Record, Claude M.
                  Medarysville
               
               
                  Reed, W. C.
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Reed, Mrs. Worth
                  
                            
                                Covington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Reid, Mrs. Julia Chapman, 2253 N. 
                                Alabama
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Reser, Alva O.
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Reser, Dr. William W.
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Reynolds, John B., Chamber of Commerce
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Rheinhardt, W. F., Box 54
                  
                            
                                Valparaiso
                            
                        
               
               
                  Rice, E. A., Shortridge High School
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Richards, C. W.
                  Clarkshill
               
               
                  Richards, Florence A., 1403 S. Center St.
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Richards, Miss Mary
                  Clarkshill
               
               
                  Richardson, E. H., 4020 Guilford Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ristine, Theodore H.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ristine, Dr. W. H.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Roberts, Dr. M. J.
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Roberts, Mrs. Rhoda
                  Carmel
               
               
                  Robinson, Mrs. Clarence, 1531 
                                Broadway
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Robinson, W. D.
                  
                            
                                Versailles
                            
                        
               
               
                  Roby, Miss Lucille, 527 N. 
                                Wabash
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Rodgers, Mrs. Nellie Barrett, 231 Oak St.
                  
                            
                                Huntington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Rogers, Mrs. Mark
                  
                            
                                Covington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Rohbock, Mrs. E. B., 293 W. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ross, F. D.
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Rose, Mrs. Frederick D., 616 E. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Rose, Helen
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ross, Mrs. Charles W.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ross, Miss Helen, 215 S. McCann St.
                  
                            
                                Kokomo
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ross, Mrs. Morris, 1343 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ross, Mrs. Nannie Lovejoy, 215 S. McCann St.
                  
                            
                                Kokomo
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ross, Mrs. Ora Thompson
                  
                            
                                Rensselaer
                            
                        
               
               
                  Roush, Mrs. Carrie M., 209 S. Jackson St.
                  
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                        
               
               
                  Routh, Miss Alma Ashley, 2429 
                                Broadway
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Row, Mrs. P. A.
                  
                            
                                Osgood
                            
                        
               
               
                  Royse, L. W.
                  
                            
                                Warsaw
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ruehl, Miss Olga, 1830 Commerce Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Rumely, Mrs. Fannie Scott, 435 Riverside Drive
                  
                     
                                New York
                             City
               
               
                  Rumpler, Mrs. Maude Lucas, 88 Whittier Place
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Runnells, O. S., 1325 N. 
                                New Jersey
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Rush, Charles E., City Library
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Russell, Mrs. Mary J., Maple Heights
                  West 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
               
               
                  Russell, Mrs. Nora E., 402 E. Walnut St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ryan, Horace E., L. S. Ayres Co.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Sage, Miss Margaret, 408 W. Taylor St.
                  
                            
                                Kokomo
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sammons, Hume L.
                  
                            
                                Kentland
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sanders, Hon. Everett, House of Representatives
                  
                     
                                Washington
                            , D. C.
               
               
                  Sanders, Mrs. Fanny, 1612 Indiana Ave.
                  
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sanders, Miss Ura
                  Gosport
               
               
                  Sansberry, Charles T., 309 Union Bldg.
                  Anderson
               
               
                  Sayre, Mrs. Ida Smith, 143 E. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Schaff, Rev. N. H.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Schlegel, Clarence O.
                  
                     
                                Clay
                             City
               
               
                  Schmuck, Adolph, 
                                Indianapolis
                             News
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Schneider, Felix L.
                  
                            
                                Jasper
                            
                        
               
               
                  Schowe, George F., 3036 N. Capitol Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Schrum, John L.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Schurmann, Edward, 2152 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Schurmann, Mrs. Edward, 1203 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Schurz, Edwin
                  LaPorte
               
               
                  Schwab, Miss Lenora
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
               
               
                  Scott, Miss Margaret M., No. 3, 419 E. 22nd
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Scoville, Genevieve H., 2050 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Scudder, Miss Jane, R. R. C, Box 193
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Segur, Mrs. Margaret B., 120 E. 28th
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Semans, Mrs. Carl R., 3412 
                                Broadway
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Setzer, J. D., 1828 
                                Broadway
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shafer, John I.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shaffer, John C., 
                                Chicago
                             Evening Post
                  
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shakes, C. W.
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  Sharp, Holmes C.
                  Liberty
               
               
                  Sharpe, Miss Anna T., 1314 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sharpe, Mrs. Harriet E., 1917 
                                Broadway
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shaw, Archibald
                  
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shea, Joseph H., 856 W. Drive, Woodruff Place
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sheaf, Harrold, 110 S. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Elkhart
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shearer, Mrs. W. F., South College Ave.
                  
                            
                                Angola
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sheehan, Mrs. Frank J., 569 Tyler St.
                  Gary
               
               
                  Sheridan, H. C., 409 S. 
                                Clay
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sheridan, Mrs. H. C., 409 S. 
                                Clay
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sheridan, L. V., 4211 Park Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sherwood, Henry Noble, Dean 
                                Franklin
                             College
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shideler, Mrs. E. F., 2877 Sutherland Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shipp, Miss May Louise, 415 E. 12th St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shirk, John C.
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shirk, Joseph H.
                  Peru
               
               
                  Shirk, Mrs. W. W., 722 E. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shirk, Mrs. Nannie R.
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shirley, Cassius C., 1311 Fletcher Sav. & Tr. Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Shirley, Miss Lois Jane, 655 Third Ave.
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shively, Miss Wealthy
                  Markle
               
               
                  Shockley, Mrs. Emma
                  Straughn
               
               
                  Shook, Miss Marian
                  Hibbing, Minn.
               
               
                  Shook, O. P.
                  Holton
               
               
                  Shortridge, Miss Annalee, 1204 N. 13th St.
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Showalter, Dan
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shuler, Mrs. Margaret L., 512 Guaranty Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Shull, Miss Belle G., Librarian
                  Montpelier
               
               
                  Shumaker, E. G., 706 State Life Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sigsbee, James W., 929 Baldwin St.
                  
                            
                                Elkhart
                            
                        
               
               
                  Simmons, Abram
                  Bluffton
               
               
                  Simms, Dan W.
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Simpson, G. O.
                  
                            
                                Angola
                            
                        
               
               
                  Simpson, Henry M.
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sims, Fred A., 1603 Merchants Bank Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sinclaire, Miss Catharine J., 2446 College Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sinclaire, Miss Helen, 508 State Sav. & Tr. Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Slough, F. Cadette, 1026 Cone St.
                  
                            
                                Elkhart
                            
                        
               
               
                  Slough, Mrs. O. H.
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  Small, Albert G., 1504 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Small, Carl B.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Smith, Asa J., 3850 Winthrop Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Smith, Mrs. Clara C.
                  West 
                                Lebanon
                            
                  
               
               
                  Smith, Mrs. C. E., 755 W. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Smith, Clarence H., 614 S. 14th St.
                  
                            
                                Newcastle
                            
                        
               
               
                  Smith, E. H., 429 Busseron St.
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Smith, Elmer V.
                  West 
                                Lebanon
                            
                  
               
               
                  Smith, Miss Frances, 102 E. 3rd St.
                  N. 
                                Manchester
                            
                  
               
               
                  Smith, Adj. Gen. Harry B., 208 State House
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Smith, N. B., 202 Citizens Bank Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Kokomo
                            
                        
               
               
                  Smith, Mrs. S. M., 2262 Central Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Smythe, Miss Myrtle, 656 E. 12th St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Soice, Oliver G., 201 N. 
                                Michigan
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Plymouth
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sollenberger, Mrs. Dana H., Librarian
                  
                            
                                Kokomo
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sparks, John F.
                  Summitville
               
               
                  Sparks, Mrs. Nathan, 404 E. Maple St.
                  
                            
                                Jeffersonville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Speers, H. A. O., 1708 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Spencer
                            , George A.
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Spinning, Dr. A. L.
                  
                            
                                Covington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Spradling, Birney D., 4433 Carrollton Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Springhorn, Mrs. Sophie, 2014 N. Talbott Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Staats, Robert
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stahl, Joseph H., 409 Board of Trade Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stanfield, H. S., 311 W. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Steele, Mrs. Bessie S.
                  Mt. Comfort
               
               
                  Steele, Claude S.
                  
                            
                                Knox
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Steffey, O. J., Stendal High School
                  Stendal
               
               
                  Stehle, Andrew A., 213 E. 6th St.
                  Peru
               
               
                  Stein, Theodore, 241 Lemcke Annex
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stempfel, Theodore, Fletcher Am. Nat'l Bank
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stephenson, Wendell H.
                  
                            
                                Plainfield
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stevens, Orville
                  
                            
                                Angola
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stewart, Dr. J. W. G.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stiffler, Charles B., c/o General Motors Corporation
                  
                     
                                Detroit
                            , Mich.
               
               
                  Stitt, Claude D.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stoltz, Dr. Charles, 311 W. Jefferson Blvd.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stoops, Mrs. Alice P.
                  Petersburg
               
               
                  Stoops, Harry M.
                  
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stott, Mrs. Arabella
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stout, W. H., 2254 N. Capitol Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Strain, A. F.
                  
                            
                                Princeton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stratton, Melvin B., 1556 Deloss St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Straus, S. W., 565 Fifth Ave.
                  
                     
                                New York
                             City
               
               
                  Strause, David
                  
                            
                                Danville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Streightoff, Frank H., 317 E. 13th St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stuart, Ben F.
                  Burnettsville
               
               
                  Stuart, Mrs. Charles B., Earlhurst
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Stuart, James A., The Star
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sturgis, Charles E.
                  Bluffton
               
               
                  Sullivan, William G., 1545 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sumner, Miss Caroline L., Elmhurst School
                  
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sundheimer, Howard K., P. O. Clerk
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Surratt, Ednamay (Miss), 423 Rector Hall, DePauw
                  
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sutton, Mrs. H. H.
                  
                            
                                Aurora
                            
                        
               
               
                  Swaim, Mrs. D. H., 524 W. 
                                Wabash
                            
                  
                  Bluffton
               
               
                  Swan, Mrs. E. M.
                  
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Swan, James M., 123 W. Market St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sweeney, Z. T. (Rev.)
                  
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sweet, Prof. W. W., DePauw University
                  
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                        
               
               
                  Swindell, Miss Minnie H.
                  
                            
                                Plymouth
                            
                        
               
               
                  Switzer, Judge Frank O.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Symons, Mary
                  Carmel
               
               
                  Taggart, J. E.
                  
                            
                                Jeffersonville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Tatman, Mrs. Josephine, 831 Grand Ave.
                  
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Taylor, Miss Anna Dean, 1842 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Taylor, Mrs. A. H., 1142 Upper Second St.
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Taylor, Ferris T., 1842 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Taylor, John N.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Taylor, Mrs. Sam R., 1117 Clinton St.
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
               
               
                  Tebbs, 
                                Warren
                            , Room 1, Parry Corner Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                        
               
               
                  Teel, William Ross, 420 Guaranty Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Thiebaud, Benjamin F., 556 Central Ave.
                  
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Thiebaud, Mrs. B. F., 1829 
                                Virginia
                             Ave.
                  
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Thielens, A. B., 1026 N. 
                                Michigan
                             St.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Thistlthwaite, Mrs. Daisy R.
                  Sheridan
               
               
                  Thompson, Charles Nebeker, 1605 N. Talbott Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Thompson, Francis M.
                  
                            
                                Versailles
                            
                        
               
               
                  Thompson, Mrs. Lucy Pritchard, 228 E. 17th St.
                  
                     
                                Brooklyn
                            , N. Y.
               
               
                  Thompson, Miss Rebecca J., 198 E. Jefferson St.
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
               
               
                  Thompson, Mrs. Sylvester
                  Petersburg
               
               
                  Thorne, Mrs. Nellie Reed
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Torbet, Charles E., 
                                Evansville
                             College
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Torrance, Mrs. W. J., 1306 Walnut St.
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Torrence, Miss Clara, 157 N. 
                                Huntington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Traylor, Bomar
                  
                            
                                Jasper
                            
                        
               
               
                  Traylor, Mrs. Bomar
                  
                            
                                Jasper
                            
                        
               
               
                  Trent, Ray S., 4211 Sunset Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Trinkle, Jesse M.
                  Paoli
               
               
                  Troth, Will V.
                  West Baden
               
               
                  Troxel, Kathryn, 693 East St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Turrell, Miss Anna, Herron Art Institute
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Tutt, Miss 
                                Virginia
                             M., Librarian
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Tyrrell, Charles Avery, 2031 Eutaw Place
                  
                     
                                Baltimore
                            , Md.
               
               
                  Tyrrell, Noyes E.
                  Bonneville, Ore.
               
               
                  Updegraff, Mrs. Helen, 2728 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Vail, Mrs. G. T., 801 Spring St.
                  
                     
                                Michigan
                             City
               
               
                  Vanatta, Mrs. Millie T.
                  Earl Park
               
               
                  
                     
                                Van
                             Buskirk, J. B.
                  
                            
                                Monticello
                            
                        
               
               
                  VanDoorn, Mrs. Charlotte MacDonald
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Vanier, J. Olias, 605 State Life Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Van
                             Voorhis, Mrs. John, 1222 Linden St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Van
                             Winkle, B. A.
                  
                     
                                Hartford
                             City
               
               
                  Vayhinger, Mrs. Culla J.
                  Upland
               
               
                  Vesey, George W.
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Vestal, May, 2855 Highland Place
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Vestal, Meade
                  
                            
                                Noblesville
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Vigo County
                             Hist. Soc., Fairbanks Library
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Vigus, Mrs. Iva L., 3340 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Vinnedge, Mrs. Ella, 138 E. 16th St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Vinton, Judge Henry H.
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Vonnegut, Theodore F., 1340 Park Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Voorhees, Mrs. Fanny Vajen, 1321 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Voris, Mrs. Arta Payne
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
               
               
                  Vrooman, H. W., 505 E. Walnut St., Box 138
                  
                            
                                Kokomo
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wagner, Mrs. Elmer
                  Vernon
               
               
                  Wagner, Mrs. Theodore, 
                                Cambridge
                             Apartments
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Waite, Miss Hattie
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Walcott, Mrs. Benjamin, 616 E. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
               
               
                  Walden, H. L., Box 144
                  Eureka, Cal.
               
               
                  Walker, Miss Anna L., 570 N. 
                                Wabash
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Walker, Mrs. J. H.
                  Scottsburg
               
               
                  Walkup, Miss Mary Elizabeth
                  New Ross
               
               
                  Wallace, Dr. B., 54 N. Water St.
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wallace, Miss Bertha C., 111 E. 16th, Apt. 503
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wallace, Mrs. Lulu L., 116 S. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Marion
                            
                        
               
               
                  Walling, Miss Josephine, Librarian
                  Pennville
               
               
                  Wampler, Frank, 2161 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Warmoth, George W., 3140 Park Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Warner, Mrs. E. W., 2709 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wasmuth, Edmund M.
                  
                            
                                Huntington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Waterman, Ben C., 4020 Spring Garden St.
                  
                     
                                Philadelphia
                            , Pa.
               
               
                  Watson, Miss Jessie C., 105 N. Blair St.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Waugh, Mrs. James M., 401 E. 
                                Wabash
                             Ave.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Weatherholt, Wallace, 2117 N. 
                                Alabama
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Weesner, Clarkson W., 206 W. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Weigle, Mrs. C. F., 1021 N. 21st St.
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Weisenburger, Lewis, 1421 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Welborn, Miss Anna Acton, 1028 S. First St.
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wertz, Samuel
                  
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                        
               
               
                  Westfall, Pearl D.
                  
                            
                        Chester, Ohio
                     
                        
               
               
                  Wetherill, Dr. Richard B.
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wharf, Eugene C., R. F. D. No. 1
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wheeler, Horace N.
                  Dana
               
               
                  Whicker, J. Wesley
                  Attica
               
               
                  Whitson, Rolland Lewis, 
                                Dearborn
                             Parkway
                  
                     
                                Chicago
                            , 111.
               
               
                  Whittington, Mrs. W. T.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wicks, Rev. F. S. C., 1453 N. 
                                Alabama
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wiecking, Fred A., 711 S. Main St.
                  Bluffton
               
               
                  Wiecking, Mrs. Mary S.
                  Bluffton
               
               
                  Wilcox, Miss Marie, Librarian
                  
                     
                                Michigan
                             City
               
               
                  Wilkinson, Orville A., 1804 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Willard, Miss Louise, 517 W. 64th St.
                  
                     
                                Chicago
                            , 111.
               
               
                  Willey, Mr. and Mrs. J. H., 516 North Center
                  
                            
                                Plymouth
                            
                        
               
               
                  Williams, Charles N., Farmers Trust Company
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Williams, Delle I. (Miss), 2371/2 E. Pratt St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Williams, Florin C., 354 E. Main St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Williams, Miss Genevieve M., Librarian
                  
                            
                                Huntingburg
                            
                        
               
               
                  Williams, Judge George
                  
                            
                                Rensselaer
                            
                        
               
               
                  Williams, Howard
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Williams, Mrs. Minnie O., 2436 N. 
                                New Jersey
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Williams, Mrs. Olive I., 20 Loan Apartment
                  Anderson
               
               
                  Williams, Oscar H., 609 S. Fess Ave.
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Williamson, Miss Iza, Fletcher Sav. & Tr. Co.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  Willis, R. E.
                  
                            
                                Angola
                            
                        
               
               
                  Willman, Mrs. R. K., 501 W. 
                                Washington
                             St.
                  
                     
                                Hartford
                             City
               
               
                  Wilmore, Rev. Augustus C.
                  Winchester
               
               
                  Wilson, Mrs. Cora F.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wilson, George R., State Life Bldg.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wilson, Henry Lane, Spink Arms Hotel
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wilson, Mrs. Isadore H.
                  
                            
                                Spiceland
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wilson, Dr. James
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wilson, Miss Margaret A.
                  
                            
                                Jasper
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wilson, Mrs. Mindwell Crampton
                  Delphi
               
               
                  Wilson, Thomas J.
                  Corydon
               
               
                  Wilson, Mrs. William A.
                  
                            
                                Jasper
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wilson, Mrs. W. T., 3055 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wilson, Wm. T., 2061/2 Fourth
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Winkelpleck, Mrs. J. M.
                  
                            
                                Odon
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Wise
                            , Carl S., 830 N. Eighth St.
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wishard, Mrs. Wm. Niles, 2050 N. 
                                Delaware
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wohrer, Mrs. Alice J., R. R. 6
                  
                            
                                North Vernon
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wolcott, Eben H., 3103 N. Meridian St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wolf, Mrs. Benjamin, 156 W. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wolf, Louis
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wood, George C.
                  Windfall
               
               
                  Wood, William Allen, 2502 N. 
                                Alabama
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Woodburn, James A.
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Woods, Mrs. C. W., 2419 Park Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Woolen, Evans, Fletcher Tr. & Sav. Co.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wright, Miss Anna M., 4150 Central Ave.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wright, Grant F., R. F. D. No. 7
                  
                            
                                Salem
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wright, John S., 3718 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wycoff, Mrs. Minnie
                  Batesville
               
               
                  Wynn, Mrs. Frank B., 4047 N. 
                                Pennsylvania
                             St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wynn, Thomas A., 2110 W. 41st St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Yarnelle, William R., 614 W. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Young, Mrs. A. H.
                  
                            
                                Hanover
                            
                        
               
               
                  York, Florence S., 34 E. 36th St.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Zeigler, Mrs. Annie Hughes, 161 W. Hill St.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Ziegler, D. Paul
                  
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                        
               
               
                  Zeigler, E. H.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  Zinn, Charles A.
                  
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                        
               
               
                  Zoercher, Philip, 68 Whittier Place
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dean, Edward H.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dean, Mrs. Kate Noble
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gobin, H. A.
                  
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                        
               
               
                  Goodwin, Mrs. Martha Shirk
                  
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Harrison, Mrs. Margaret McCarty
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hemenway, Hon. James A.
                  Boonville
               
               
                  Hendricks, Mrs. Jane Thomas
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Henley, Mrs. Fannie C.
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hodges, Mrs. Edward F.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Keller, Vernon
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  Lombard, Mrs. Mary C.
                  
                            
                                Spencer
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lutz, Mrs. R. F.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  MacDowall, Harry
                  Gary
               
               
                  McNeil, Mrs. Sarah E.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Meyer, Legrand T.
                  
                            
                                Hammond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moores, Charles W.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Potter, M. A.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Starr, Henry C.
                  
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Tarkington, John S.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Zeller, Mrs. William M.
                  
                            
                                Brazil
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  IN MEMORIAM
               
               
                  Dean, Edward H.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Dean, Mrs. Kate Noble
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Gobin, H. A .
                  
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                        
               
               
                  Goodwin, Mrs. Martha Shirk
                  
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Harrison, Mrs. Margaret McCarty
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hemenway, Hon. James A.
                  Boonville
               
               
                  Hendricks, Mrs. Jane Thomas
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Henley, Mrs. Fannie C.
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Hodges, Mrs. Edward F.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Keller, Vernon
                  Bourbon
               
               
                  Lombard, Mrs. Mary C.
                  
                            
                                Spencer
                            
                        
               
               
                  Lutz, Mrs. R. F.
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
               
               
                  MacDowall, Harry
                  Gary
               
               
                  McNeil, Mrs. Sarah E.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Meyer, Legrand T.
                  
                            
                                Hammond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Moores, Charles W.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Potter, M. A.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Starr, Henry C.
                  
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Tarkington, John S.
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Zeller, Mrs. William M.
                  
                            
                                Brazil
                            
                        
               
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
