
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 91, Issue 1, pages 1-152. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:91+issue:1+year:1995&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Memorial Tribute to Emma Lou Thornbrough
            
                    Robert G. Barrows, Paul R. Hanson, Peter J. Sehlinger*
               
                
            The historical community, and especially historians of Indiana, suffered a profound loss with the
                    passing on December 16, 1994, of Emma Lou Thornbrough. A native of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Dr. Thornbrough was a graduate of 
                        Butler
                     University, where she received both B.A. and M.A. degrees. She went on to earn a Ph.D.
                    at the University of 
                        Michigan
                     in 1946. That same year she accepted a position in the Department of History at 
                        Butler
                    , where she taught until her retirement in 1983. During her career she also held
                    visiting appointments at Indiana University and Case—Western Reserve University.
            Her dedication to learning and to her students was a hallmark of Emma Lou Thornbrough'
                    distinguished career. Not only did she teach courses on American constitutional history,
                    African-American history, and the history of the American South, she also demonstrated her
                    intellectual breadth by offering courses on Greek and Roman civilizations. In her last year at 
                        Butler
                    , Professor Thornbrough played a leading role in launching a new interdisciplinary
                    comparative world cultures course in the core curriculum, a mark of her innovative spirit and her
                    commitment to liberal education. She received many honors during her tenure at 
                        Butler
                    , including the Outstanding Professor Award in 1965 and appointment in 1981 to the
                    McGregor Chair in History. In 1988 the university awarded her an honorary doctorate.
            Emma Lou' reputation as a historian of Indiana rests principally on two books: The Negro in Indiana before 1900 (1957) and Indiana in the Civil War Era
                    (1965). The former, a truly path-breaking state-level monograph, remains a touchstone for those
                    studying the experiences of African Americans in Indiana. (The recent reissue of the book by Indiana
                    University Press attests to the soundness of its scholarship and its continuing value.) Indiana in the Civil War Era, a volume in The History of Indiana series, also remains in
                    print. A wide-ranging and thoroughly documented 
                  
                     * Paul R. Hanson is chair of the Department of History, 
                                Butler
                             University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Robert G. Barrows and Peter J. Sehlinger are with the Department of History,
                            Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, XCI (March, 1995). © 1995, Trustees of Indiana
                            University
               
                     study, it is often the first source consulted by those with
                    questions relating to the "middle period" of the state'
                    nineteenth-century history. Several other of her publications (see accompanying bibliography) also
                    illuminate aspects of the Hoosier state' past. At the time of her death she was working on
                    a history of African Americans in twentieth-century Indiana.
            Dr. Thornbrough was an exemplar not only in her role as teacher/scholar but also as an
                    "engaged" academic. Her interest in 
                        United States
                     constitutional history and in African-American history grew out of her conviction that
                    race has been a central force throughout the nation' development, and she applied what she
                    learned in her research and teaching to contemporary issues in race relations and civil rights in
                    Indiana. Her lifelong commitment to the civil rights struggle is witnessed by her recent research on
                    the desegregation of public schools in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            But Emma Lou Thornbrough' engagement in the community extended beyond her scholarship and
                    teaching. She was active in each of the following organizations, many of which she served as an
                    officer or board member: Organization of American Historians; Southern Historical Association;
                    Indiana Historical Society; Indiana Association of Historians; Indiana Alpha Association of Phi Beta
                    Kappa; American Association of University Professors; Indiana Civil Liberties Union; 
                        Indianapolis
                     Council of World Affairs; 
                        Indianapolis
                     NAACP; and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Human Relations Council. Her honors and awards included Phi Beta Kappa; Indiana
                    Author' Day recognition, 1966; Martin Luther King Award, 
                        Indianapolis
                     Education Association, 1976; Indiana Academy, 1981; Indiana Liberty Bell Award, Indiana
                    State Bar Association, 1987; Roy Wilkins Award, 
                        Indianapolis
                     Urban League, 1991; Fadely Award, 
                        Marion
                        County-Indianapolis
                     Historical Society; and the Indiana Historical Society' Hoosier Historian
                    Award in 1992. The annual Thornbrough Award, which is given to the author of the best article to
                    appear in the Indiana Magazine of History, recognizes the contributions made to
                    the historical profession by both Emma Lou and her sister Gayle.
            The breadth and depth of Emma Lou' historical knowledge was complemented by her eclectic
                    interests. She was, in the words of one friend, an "intense" gardener who
                    transformed her backyard into an oasis of color and fragrance. She and Gayle traveled widely in
                    Europe, and she took special pleasure in attending the theater in 
                        London
                    . Her friends and acquaintances can attest to the knowledge and conviction she brought
                    to discussions of current events.
            Emma Lou Thornbrough will be missed, but she has left her mark on friends, colleagues, and students.
                    And she leaves a legacy of historical scholarship that will enrich those interested in the past of
                    her native state for years to come.
         
         
         
            Emma Lou Thornbrough' Place in American Historiography
            
                    Wilson J. Moses*
               
                
            Recent participants in the American culture wars have boldly declared the need for a
                    "return" to narrative history. Their assumption, a curious one in my view, seems
                    to be that narrative history displays a commitment to "objective truth" and that
                    thematic social history does not. I am aware of no successful attempt at arguing these points.
                    Furthermore, the claim betrays a failure of historical memory, or at least a failure to understand
                    how a related controversy was played out by an earlier generation. At the beginning of this century
                    an heuristic distinction was drawn between historians possessed of a literary bent, those who were
                    concerned with narrative, and "scientific" historians, who were concerned with the
                    objective presentation of empirical evidence. Historians of the literary temperament attempted to
                    define the American national epic, often in the form of a conceptually innovative and rhetorically
                    compelling narrative. Scientific historians, for the most part, eschewed grand theories and moral
                    preachments and were concerned with the systematic introduction of evidence in order, as Leopold von
                    Ranke had put it, to relate history "wie es eigentlich gewesen
                    ist," or "as it actually was."
            Things were, of course, never so simple. Henry Adams knew that the very idea of scientific history
                    contained a paradox that derived from competing ideas of what constitutes science—in
                    particular, social science. The notion of scientific history developed as much from the sweeping
                    sociological imagination of Auguste Comte as it did from the patient incrementalism of the Rankeans.
                    It should not be surprising, therefore, that from its inception American social history, despite its
                    rootedness in description and analysis and regardless of its methodological devotion to the
                    incremental accumulation of minute data, should be infused with an evolutionary metaphysic.
                    Scientific history was "progressive" in the sense denoted by Herbert Butterfield
                    and later expanded by Richard Hofstadter. The derivation of social history, old and new, from the
                    progressive 
                  
                     * Wilson J. Moses is professor of history, 
                                Pennsylvania
                             State University, University Park.
               
                     genealogy of Comte and Adams is clear, since American social
                    history almost invariably reveals a confidence in the inevitable march of reason through the gradual
                    unveiling of truth toward the amelioration of irrationality, superstition, and injustice in human
                    affairs. In such fashion is the perfectionist strain in American life complemented by the
                    progressivist strain in American historiography.
            Two of the most impressive examples of the scientific-progressive school in the field of
                    African-American history have been John Hope Franklin' The Free Negro in 
                            North Carolina
                        
                (1943) and Emma Lou Thornbrough' The Negro in
                    Indiana (1963). Both were produced by scholars who were scientific historians in method and
                    progressive historians in ideology. History, especially African-American history, would be a dismal
                    science if its goal were no more than the charting of random victories and defeats. The
                        Negro In Indiana would be a depressing book were it not for its underlying current of
                    implicit optimism. Like 
                        Franklin
                    ' Free Negro in 
                            North Carolina
                        
               , it is one of those meticulous volumes that fully documents what common sense
                    and popular legend have always told us, that African Americans have encountered much hardship along
                    the road "from slavery to freedom."
            Thornbrough was a progressive historian by temperament. She impressed me as such on the only occasion
                    we ever met. It was at a session of the Popular Culture Association in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where she introduced herself to me after my presentation on a panel. I perceived her
                    as a straightforward, generous-spirited woman, unexcitable, eager to teach and to learn. I never
                    doubted the nature of her sympathies, which are obvious on every page of The Negro in
                        Indiana. When Thornbrough describes, in her preface, "the discrimination and
                    indignities" heaped upon the black population or "the gradual and uneven progress
                    of the Negro minority toward equality" (p. x), we know that she perceives racial
                    discrimination as a violation of morality and common sense. To her credit she seems, at times,
                    almost incapable of conceiving how this self-evident truth could not be obvious to everyone.
            The early chapters of The Negro in Indiana deal with the arrival of African
                    Americans in the state as slaves and indentured servants and with the movement to exclude all
                    Negroes, whether slave or free. Antislavery in Indiana, as in many of the free states, reflected the
                    hostility of free whites toward competition with slave labor as well as a fundamental prejudice
                    against black people. Slavery failed to take root in Indiana, we may assume, for the same
                    reasons—economic and legal—that it failed in the rest of the Midwest. As
                    slavery and indentured servitude were outlawed, attempts were made toward the complete exclusion of
                    all black people from the state, and those free Negroes who did arrive were encouraged to leave.
            
            Exclusionists argued that the people of Indiana would be "recreant to their best interests
                    and greatest duties to posterity, if they supinely continue to permit the migration of free negroes
                    to the state. The dregs of offscourings of the slave states are most likely to change residence, and
                    they are too incurably affected with that horrible gangrene of morals which slavery engenders, to be
                    welcome among a virtuous and intelligent people" (quoted, p. 57-58). In short, in the
                    interest of progress black people should not be allowed into Indiana. This position was mild in
                    comparison to the opinion of one gentleman who, speaking before the legislature, maintained that
                    "in all sincerity, and without any hard feelings towards them [the free Negroes]-that it
                    would be better to kill them off at once, if there is no other way to get rid of them….
                    we know how the Puritans did with the Indians, who were infinitely more magnanimous and less
                    impudent than this colored race …." (quoted, p. 66-67).
            Indianans also gave widespread support to the American Colonization Society despite the fact that
                    African Americans showed little interest in migrating to Africa. As was true in other free states,
                    the 
                        Quaker
                     community constituted the most prominent white group that consistently opposed not only
                    slavery but discriminatory legislation. The Constitution of 1851 provided, in its notorious Article
                    XIII, that "No Negro or mulatto shall come into, or settle in the State, after the adoption
                    of this Constitution." While most whites in Indiana supported the provision, an
                    abolitionist minority protested it. The law turned out, in the long run, to be ineffective; but
                    although it was never systematically enforced, attempts at its repeal were unsuccessful.
            Thornbrough' discussion of African-American politics after emancipation is one of the books
                    most interesting features. Indiana was one of the states in which African Americans began quite
                    early to resent the Republican monopoly of their votes. Throughout the Reconstruction period most
                    black leaders subscribed to Frederick Douglass' dictum, "The Republican Party is
                    the ship; all else is the sea." The challenge to Republican orthodoxy came largely from the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Freeman, which began publication in 1888 with Edward E. Cooper as its editor. The
                        Freeman, Thornbrough notes, "tried to show that although the
                    Republicans could not carry the state without Negro votes, they were ingrates who did not give the
                    Negroes the rewards they deserved" (p. 303). Black Indianans were denied a voice in the
                    national Republican party and were also ignored in local municipal affairs. In the presidential
                    campaign of 1888 the Freeman supported the reelection of Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    , acknowledged even by Douglass to be an honorable and fair man. The Freeman retained its association with the Democratic party until 1892, when it was
                    purchased by the black Republican leader George L. Knox.
            
            As a scientific historian focusing on the nineteenth century, Thornbrough was obliged to relate a
                    series of verifiable facts regardless of their unpleasantness, just "as they actually
                    were," but the conclusions she reached were reasonably optimistic. She viewed the years
                    between the Civil War and the turn of the century as "a period of substantial, if uneven,
                    progress" in Indiana. While black Americans were not always treated with full equality,
                    they were recognized as equal before the law. "While the adoption of the Fifteenth
                    Amendment was bitterly resisted, once political rights were granted there was never any movement to
                    take them away" (p. 391). She notes the rise of Ku Klux Klan activity in the 1920s and
                    describes the lynching of two Negro youths in 1930. Having confessed to killing a white man and
                    assaulting his female companion, they were taken by a mob from the 
                        Grant County
                     jail and hanged. Most of the population of Indiana in 1963 would have been startled,
                    she asserts, "to know that a lynching had occurred in the state so recently" (p.
                    393). Thornbrough makes no mention of the fact that interracial marriage was still prohibited by
                    Indiana law at the time her book was published.
            True to the progressive tradition, Thornbrough was confident of the power of facts, simply presented,
                    to overcome ignorance and of the power of science to defeat racial superstition. Her scientific
                    history, therefore, aspired to something beyond the modest pretensions of apolitical Rankeanism. It
                    was more akin to the scientific teleology of Comte. Civil rights were destined to triumph because
                    intolerance is fundamentally irrational. The fact that she allowed the facts to speak for themselves
                    did not imply an apolitical attitude, only a methodological integrity. She believed, as did the best
                    historians of her generation, that monstrous and irrational dogmas were ultimately doomed by the
                    progress of science. She gave every indication of having accepted the fundamental tenet of
                    progressivism that no democratically conceived society could permanently allow itself to be governed
                    by an ethos that was essentially irrational, hence unjust.
            Around 1970, when the black studies publishing boom was heating up and academic presses were
                    attempting to meet the demand for "books to set the record straight," I somehow
                    got hold of Thornbrough' tidy little reader, Booker T. Washington (1969),
                    which was issued in the Prentice-Hall series Great Lives Observed. It is a collection of some of 
                        Washington
                    ' representative speeches bound together with memorable responses from his
                    contemporaries overlapped by several historical appraisals, including those of Carter G. Woodson,
                    Langston Hughes, August Meier, and Louis R. Harlan. It is gratifying to see how well
                    Thornbrough' collection has stood the test of time, for there have been surprisingly few
                    attempts at reappraising Booker T. Washington in the past quarter century. Certainly his
                    complexities are seldom appreciated, and it is difficult  to
                    interest present-day students in getting to know him. I still consider Thornbrough' text
                    useful for graduate and undergraduate courses. A good teaching tool does not go out of date in a
                    mere quarter century.
            But while an anthology must be a good teaching tool, it should also justify itself in terms of its
                    theory of history and its theory of the teaching of history. Consumers should be able to count on an
                    accessible, evenhanded introduction to the author in question, but any instructor who plans to
                    assign such a text will always hunger for something more than a simple presentation of the facts and
                    documents. By the process of selection and, of course, in the introduction they provide, editors
                    have an obligation to teach. They must present a body of material in such a way as to reveal to the
                    reader why they consider these materials important. In the process they will tell us much about
                    their theory of history and about their philosophy of life. Thornbrough' introduction to
                        Booker T. Washington is a model of its genre, objective and balanced yet
                    offering an interpretation with a touch that is characteristically light and subtle.
            "To understand a man it is necessary to know something of the times in which he
                    lived," she tells us in the introduction (p. 1). This is more than a statement of the
                    obvious. Like W. E. B. Du Bois, she recognized the fact that any useful treatment of 
                        Washington
                     must place him within the context of American economic culture. In her opening
                    paragraph she therefore outlined the Zeitgeist of the "Gilded
                    Age," highlighting the major personalities and events that gave the period its character in
                    that age of excess. While Thornbrough was not inclined to make excuses for the policies of the
                    Tuskegee Machine, she recognized, as did Du Bois, 
                        Washington
                    ' genius at catching "the thought and speech of triumphant
                    commercialism." His behavior was not simply a matter of slavish compliance with the
                    dictates of power, it was a brilliant, albeit tragically doomed, attempt to alter the course of a
                    power that was beyond all hope of control.
            Unhappy discoveries that I have made in my recent dealings with textbook editors lead me to fear that
                    such a volume as Thornbrough' Booker T. Washington would not make it
                    through the editorial process at some publishing houses today. Thornbrough made an assumption, which
                    was perhaps more reasonable in 1972 than it is today, that intelligent students and teachers were
                    alike capable of understanding a college level presentation of historical documents. She obviously
                    expected that the text would be administered by a mature, dedicated teacher with a knowledge of the
                    general contours of American history. She assumed that an instructor would take the time to define
                    such terms as "Gilded Age" and explain the representatives of that age,
                    "men like Rockefeller, and Carnegie [who] were free to exercise their entrepreneurial and
                    acquisitive talents without interference from government" (p. 1).
            
            She assumed, furthermore, that a competent teacher would have sufficient imagination to follow her
                    suggestions about placing 
                        Washington
                     within the context of cultural studies. Her text alludes to the once popular myth of
                    Horatio Alger, assuming that students would want to know and that teachers would be happy to explain
                    who Alger was. The introduction briefly mentions that element of primary importance in the
                    intellectual history of the period, "social Darwinism," and its effects on
                    segregationist thought before going on to sketch the background of Plessy v
                    Ferguson. Thornbrough evinced her progressive optimism by assuming that students and teachers
                    would display sufficient curiosity and initiative to make their way across the intellectual terrain
                    once she pointed out the landmarks.
            Thornbrough' objectivity and authoritative knowledge of the late nineteenth and early
                    twentieth centuries made her an obvious choice to write the article on 
                        Washington
                     in the Dictionary of American Negro Biography (DANB). Thornbrough, as
                    much as anyone, was responsible for the reappraisal of turn-of-the-century black leadership that is
                    still occurring in American historiography. Along with Meier and Harlan she led us to an
                    understanding of the complexities of 
                        Washington
                    ' behavior and the subtle workings of his Tuskegee Machine. While, on the one
                    hand, it is evident that Thornbrough was no defender of 
                        Washington
                    , it is equally obvious that she respected him. I think her work marked a departure from
                    the position of other progressive scholars, notably Rayford W. Logan and J. Saunders Redding, who
                    could barely mention Washington' name without a sneer.
            If Thornbrough was a good choice to write the article on 
                        Washington
                     for the DANB, she was the best choice to write the article on T. Thomas Fortune. As
                    author of T. Thomas Fortune, Militant Journalist, she had long been immersed in
                    her subject. Her study of the militant journalist had obliged her to wade into areas of American
                    history more obscure than the relatively straightforward court reporting that had dominated her
                    earlier work. Fortune' brilliant but unstable character and the apparent contradictions in
                    his political philosophy made him an intriguing subject. Thornbrough' attempt to make sense
                    of Fortune' life inevitably resulted in a more interesting project, in this
                    reader' view, than the masterful, but unadventurous, archival reporting of The
                        Negro in Indiana.
            
            Fortune was born in Marianna, 
                        Florida
                    , in 1856, the child of former slaves with appreciable white and Indian ancestry. Though
                    the photograph that appears as frontispiece to Thornbrough' biography provides no clue of
                    his African ancestry, other photographs are more revealing. Born in a time and place when one drop
                    of Negro blood was sufficient to predetermine one' fixed place within the racial caste
                    system, Fortune was always known as a "black man," and his life was dedicated to
                    uncompromising struggle  against racial oppression. While he was
                    in his early teens, Fortune' parents moved to 
                        Jacksonville
                    . There he briefly attended the Stanton Academy, where he was instructed by two women
                    from New 
                        England
                    . During these years he held various jobs, including one as printers devil for the
                    Jackson Daily Union. By the time he left the deep South, still in his teens,
                    Fortune had become an expert compositor and had learned the rudiments of the newspaper business.
            Fortune entered the preparatory department of Howard University in 1874 with less than three years of
                    formal schooling. He soon rebelled against the discipline of the university, including what he
                    identified as a spirit of religious hypocrisy, but he respected several of the teachers greatly and
                    expressed continuing admiration for Dean of the Law School John Mercer Langston. Fortune'
                    career at Howard came to an abrupt end when he lost all the savings that were to have seen him
                    through the university in one of the periodic bank failures that characterized the era. He then went
                    to work for The Peoples Advocate, a black newspaper recently established by John
                    Wesley Cromwell in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. Fortune later founded other newspapers of his own, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Globe and the 
                        New York
                    
                    Freeman, the latter of which changed its name to the 
                        New York
                    
                    Age. He ended his career in journalism at the Negro World, a
                    publication of Marcus Garvey' Universal Negro Improvement Association, where he was editor
                    until his death in 1928.
            Thornbrough had earlier treated Fortune as a civil rights activist in her article, "The
                    National Afro-American League, 1887-1908," which appeared in the Journal of
                        Southern History (November, 1961). Fortune organized the Afro-American League, later called
                    the Afro-American Council, to protest against a list of six grievances: the suppression of voting
                    rights, "the universal and lamentable reign of lynch law," the inequity in the
                    distribution of school funds, "the odious and demoralizing penitentiary system of the
                    South," discrimination on the railroads, and denial of hotel and theater accommodations. In
                    many respects the league was, as Thornbrough noted, a precursor of the Niagara Movement and the
                    National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), although, at least at the
                    beginning, it employed a far more militant rhetoric than the NAACP. "We propose to
                    accomplish our purpose," the league asserted, "by the peaceful methods of
                    agitation, through the ballot and the courts, but if others use the weapons of violence to combat
                    our peaceful arguments it is not for us to run away from violence" (p. 496).
            White moderates and conservatives viewed Fortune as a dangerous agitator and a racial chauvinist.
                    Some of Fortune' black contemporaries accepted his militancy as a necessary complement to
                    Washington' accommodationism. Militant blacks saw him as Washington' puppet and a
                    traitor to the race. Thornbrough sifted  through the various and
                    contradictory contemporary opinions, finally portraying Fortune as the more militant voice of
                    Washington' Tuskegee Machine. Fortune was, in fact, no less militant than William Monroe
                    Trotter or other elements of the Niagara Movement, including Du Bois. Certain features of
                    Fortune' personality, including his perennial drinking problem, alienated the journalist
                    from the cold-water puritanism of the Niagara leadership. Thornbrough, however, does not miss the
                    paradox that militant integrationists, such as Fortune and Victoria Earle Matthews, were more than
                    tolerated within the Tuskegee Machine.
            It is impossible to imagine a greater difference in personalities than that between the precocious,
                    unstable Fortune and the scientific, reliable Thornbrough, yet the biographer demonstrated
                    remarkable sympathy with and respect for her subject. Further, she significantly elevated our
                    understanding of the relationship between 
                        Washington
                     and the educated classes of African Americans, particularly that between 
                        Washington
                     and Fortune and between 
                        Washington
                     and Du Bois. It is generally known today that Du Bois praised 
                        Washington
                    ' 
                        Atlanta
                     Exposition address and defended Tuskegee from criticism, but Thornbrough was among the
                    first to bring such facts to light.
            We now know that just as Du Bois never undervalued the self-help aspects of 
                        Washington
                    ' strategy, 
                        Washington
                     never overlooked ways to exploit the militancy of Du Bois and others. Fortune
                    represented a group of relatively militant black persons, including the Grimkè brothers
                    and Mary Church Terrell, who were able to work with 
                        Washington
                     far more effectively than could Du Bois, and Thornbrough believes that Fortune did not
                    find it necessary to compromise his principles in order to do so. If Fortune was compromised, it was
                    not by Washington so much as by his emotional problems and alcohol dependency. Despite the
                    journalist' continuing drinking problem, 
                        Washington
                    , either from necessity or from genuine feelings of friendship, consistently supported
                    him. Fortune, for his part, seems to have had genuine ideological reasons for supporting 
                        Washington
                    . Thornbrough, in explaining the strange relationship between the two men, quotes
                    Fortune to good effect: 
                        Perhaps in the history of mankind more victories have been won through the policy of
                            conservatism and moderation pursued by Mr. Washington than through the radical and unbending
                            policy I have always pursued; but it is the temperament of the two of us, and we can neither
                            of us change our nature.
                        I naturally regard Mr. Washington as the strongest and safest leader we have (Booker T. Washington, p. 112).
                    
                
            Thornbrough was not overly sympathetic to the gradualism she associated with 
                        Washington
                    , and it would be far from the mark to describe her as a Tuskegee apologist. On the
                    other hand there is some understandable ambivalence in her treatment of the relationship between 
                        Washington
                     and Fortune. She seems convinced that 
                    
                        Washington
                     had an affectionate regard for Fortune as well as a genuine respect for his abilities.
                    She never accuses 
                        Washington
                     of predatory exploitation of Fortune and reports no vindictiveness after the
                    relationship went sour. At one point she accuses 
                        Washington
                     of using the journalist until it no longer seemed advantageous to do so. On the other
                    hand, as she adequately demonstrates, Fortune, like most alcoholics, did an excellent job of
                    alienating even his closest friends and family.
            It does not seem that the Tuskegee Machine was unfeeling toward Fortune, and 
                        Washington
                    ' principal lieutenant, Emmett Scott, continued to loan Fortune money while he
                    was experiencing his worst "years of degredation." Washington was several times
                    willing to forgive embarrassment resulting from Fortune' unsteadiness, although he was most
                    likely to help when the journalist showed signs of coping with his problems. Fortune, for his part,
                    seemed ideologically committed to the Tuskegee philosophy. He consistently sided with the machine in
                    its war with the NAACP, expressing in letters to 
                        Washington
                     his contempt for an organization that was controlled by white liberals. In later years,
                    during his Garvey phase, he seemed convinced that black organizations must draw their power to
                    inspire from the masses. This, he said, was something that Garvey had been able to do in a way that
                    neither the NAACP nor Tuskegee nor, as he admitted, his own Afro-American League had been able to
                    do.
            Thornbrough' commentary on the Tuskegee Machine, seen from the perspective of Fortune,
                    provides extraordinary insight into the period that Meier has dubbed "the Age of Booker T.
                    Washington." When one reflects on much that had been said and written about the 
                        Washington
                     years in earlier treatments, one must admire the evenhandedness of her work. Produced
                    by such progressive historians as Logan, Redding, and Lerone Bennett, many of these works had dealt
                    with 
                        Washington
                     as a betrayer of the Negro, a man whose 
                        Atlanta
                     Compromise had provided consolation to the Supreme Court for its Plessy v
                        Ferguson decision. Thornbrough does not drag out any clichès to the effect that
                    Washington did the best he could under his particular circumstances. That question, particularly in
                    view of the militancy of Fortune, remains, for her, an open one. But she never loses sight of a fact
                    that had been earlier developed by Meier, that Washington' dealings with the talented tenth
                    were far more complex than generally acknowledged in scholarship before the 1960s.
            Thornbrough' work was always characterized by purity of style, meticulous attention to
                    detail, and straightforward presentation of the facts. Many will perceive her biography of Fortune
                    as her best work because she managed, without abandoning her usual no-nonsense approach, to unveil
                    the problematics and ambiguities of "the Age of Booker T. Washington." She
                    demonstrated a respect for  the complexities of African-American
                    leadership, which cannot be reduced to two-sided controversies. While her work on the Negro in
                    Indiana was a sterling example of honest, descriptive history, her Fortune biography was
                    pathbreaking. It heightened contradictions, revealed paradox, and contributed to the reappraisal of
                    a period. There was never anything contrived about Thornbrough' work, nothing faddish or
                    gimmicky. She never abandoned clarity, and while she respected ambivalence as an essential feature
                    of the human condition, there was no ambivalence in her commitment to equality of opportunity for
                    all Americans. She was uncompromisingly an advocate, in all her work, for the complete participation
                    of the African-American people in every aspect of American democracy.
         
         
         
            Emma Lou Thornbrough: Mentor and Teacher
            
                    Richard B. Pierce, II*
               
                
            It was at the Indiana Association of History conference a year or so ago that I first met Emma Lou
                    Thornbrough. As a graduate student studying the African-American community in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , I had gone to the conference hoping to ask Professor Thornbrough a question or two. I
                    rehearsed what I would say to her, and by the day of the conference I felt fairly confident that I
                    would not appear to be a stuttering admirer. All my preparations were for naught, for as I rounded
                    the corner leading to the main ballroom I found myself face-to-face with the Thornbrough sisters. I
                    began my soliloquy, stuttering despite my rehearsed speech. I fear I made no logical sense.
                    Professor Thornbrough cut me short, thankfully, and told me to make an appointment to visit her at
                    home where we could talk. It seemed to me that I should write my questions before the visit.
            What followed was an example of the "old school" practice where the student sat at
                    the foot of the teacher and listened. I was not one of Professor Thornbrough' students. She
                    was not on my dissertation committee, nor was she an informal reader. I was a graduate student who
                    sought her out, and she responded by sharing with me her insight on 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Again, all of my questions seemed inadequate. I had written them this time, but as the
                    conversation spun, it seemed as if I were in a classroom taking notes. Without benefit of reference
                    materials or notes Professor Thornbrough told me of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ' chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People,
                    the consequences of housing restrictions, and the efforts to construct and then demolish school
                    segregation in the Hoosier capital. On the last point her help was most appreciated. It was at that
                    meeting that I learned that Professor Thornbrough had written a lengthy treatise on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     school desegregation process. She told me, quite firmly, to locate the work at the
                    Indiana Historical Society (IHS) and read it thoroughly. I left her home and went directly to the
                    IHS.
            For the next two weeks I was the favored child of the IHS staff. Instead of going to the reference
                    desk with repeated requests for 
                  
                     * Richard B. Pierce, II, graduate student in history at
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , is working on a dissertation entitled "Beneath the Surface:
                            African-American Community Development in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1945-1970."
               
                     additional materials, I asked for one item in the morning and
                    gave that same item back to them at the end of the day. I heard their whispered conversations when
                    the desk staff was relieved, "There' Pierce. He still has Thornbrough'
                    manuscript." The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Story, as she had titled her work, was a treasure. Thornbrough had moiled
                    through the tedious 
                        Indianapolis
                     School Board minutes, newspaper accounts, and municipal court transcripts to produce a
                    meticulous account of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     school policy regarding race. It is a substantial work and a lasting testament to the
                    length and breadth of her career. She had given the manuscript to the IHS in 1992, and it showed
                    that despite her retirement, Thornbrough remained an active scholar.
            All of us who work on Indiana history owe a debt of gratitude to Professor Thornbrough. She worked in
                    a field that was not at the time she began her career popular among historians, and she produced
                    work that has lasting merit. Before meeting her I had often silently offered my gratefulness. In
                    person I offered it again. Now, thanks to this special issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, I put my indebtedness in print.
         
         
         
            Books and Articles by Emma Lou Thornbrough
            
                    Leigh Darbee and Wilma L. Gibbs**
               
                
            
                    Books
                
            
               
                  Eliza A. Blaker, Her Life and Work (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Eliza A. Blaker Club and Indiana Historical Society, 1956).
               
                  The Negro in Indiana [before 1900]: A Study of a Minority, Indiana
                        Historical Collections, Vol. XXXVII ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: Indiana Historical Bureau, 1957). Reprinted, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind.: Indiana University Press, 1993.
               
                  Since Emancipation: A Short History of Indiana Negroes, 1863-1963 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: American Negro Emancipation Centennial Authority, Indiana Division, [1963?]).
               
                  Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850-1880 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Bureau and Indiana Historical Society, 1965).
               
                  *Booker T. Washington (Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall,
                        1969).
               
                  Black Reconstructionists (Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1972).
               
                  T. Thomas Fortune, Militant Journalist (
                            Chicago
                        : University of 
                            Chicago
                         Press, 1972).
               
                  *This Far by Faith: Black Hoosier Heritage (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Committee for the Humanities, 1982). Booklet to accompany exhibit of the
                        same title.
               
                  The Greco-Roman World: The Greeks ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: 
                            Butler
                         University, 1985). College course outline and text.
               
                  The World of Christopher 
                                Columbus
                            : Imperial 
                                Spain
                            , 1469-1598 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: 
                            Butler
                         University, 1985). College course outline and text. Reprinted, Needham, Mass.: Ginn
                        Press, 1991.
            
            
                    Articles and Chapters in Books
                
            
               "The Race Issue in Indiana Politics during the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of History, XLVII (June, 1951), 165-88. 
                     
                        ** This bibliography has been compiled by
                                Leigh Darbee, curator of printed collections, and Wilma L. Gibbs, black history program
                                archivist, Indiana Historical Society, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . Books and articles edited by Professor Thornbrough are indicated with an
                                asterisk. No attempt has been made to list her many book reviews.
                  
               
               
               "Indiana and Fugitive Slave Legislation," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, L (September, 1954), 201-28."
               The 
                            Brownsville
                         Episode and the Negro Vote," 
                     
                                Mississippi
                             Valley Historical Review, XLIV (December, 1957), 469-93.
               "More Light on Booker T. Washington and the 
                     
                                New York
                             Age," Journal of Negro History, XLIII
                        ([Winter?], 1958), 34-49.
               "The National Afro-American League, 1887-1908," Journal of
                            Southern History, XXVII (November, 1961), 494-512.
               "Segregation in Indiana during the Klan Era of the 1920'," 
                     
                                Mississippi
                             Valley Historical Review, XLVII (March, 1961), 594-618.
               "Judge Perkins, the Indiana Supreme Court, and the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of History, LX (March, 1964), 79-96.
               "American Negro Newspapers, 1880-1914," Business History
                        Review, XL (Winter, 1966), 467-90.
               "The Indiana Scene in 1870," in 
                     
                                Irvington
                             Historical Society Collected Papers, 1967-1968 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: 
                            Irvington
                         Historical Society History Committee, [1968?]), 50-65.
               "Origins of ‘The American Dilemma’ Revisited," Reviews in American History, VII (September, 1979), 325-30.
               "Breaking Racial Barriers to Public Accommodations in Indiana, 1935 to
                        1963," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (December, 1987), 301-43.
               "The 
                            Indianapolis
                         School Busing Case," in We the People: Indiana and the 
                                United States
                             Constitution (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1987), 68-92.
               "The History of Black Women in Indiana," in Indiana'
                            African-American Heritage, ed. Wilma L. Gibbs (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1993), 67-85.
               "African-Americans," overview essay in The Encyclopedia of
                            Zndianapolis, ed. David J. Bodenhamer and Robert G. Barrows (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 1994), 5-14.
            
            
                    Unpublished Works
                
            
               "Negro Slavery in the North: Its Legal and Constitutional Aspects" (Ph.D.
                        dissertation, University of 
                     Michigan,
                                Ann Arbor
                  , 1946). "
               The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Study: School Segregation and Desegregation in a Northern City," 1989.
                        Bound typescript. IIeld by the Indiana Historical Society (BV 2631), 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
         
         
         
            An English Shoemaker in Indiana: The Story of Samuel Fowler Smith
            
                    Edited, with introduction, by William E. Van Vugt*
               
                
            In 1835 a twenty-seven-year-old English shoemaker named Samuel Fowler Smith left his native Yorkshire
                    village of Walton and settled in Indiana, first as a shoemaker in 
                        Madison
                     and then as a highly successful and innovative wheel manufacturer in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Thousands of other English immigrants also came to the Hoosier state during the
                    nineteenth century, but Smith is especially worthy of attention because he played an important role
                    in Indiana' industrial history and because he seems to have been, in many ways, a
                    "typical" English immigrant, thus a good "representative case"
                    for close study. What makes his story possible to tell in detail is his unpublished autobiography,
                    which is rich with an Englishman' descriptions of his new home as well as of his
                        homeland.1 Through this personal account and additional sources in 
                        England
                     and Indiana, readers have a rare opportunity to experience the life of an English
                    immigrant and thus to gain a clearer understanding of the significant stream of English migrants who
                    entered the Hoosier state during the early years of the nineteenth century.2
            
            The English were by no means the largest immigrant group to enter Indiana in the nineteenth century.
                    By the Civil War there were over six Germans and nearly three Irish for every English-born person.
                    The greatest number of English in Indiana, as recorded 
                  
                     * William E. Van Vugt is professor of history, Calvin
                            College, Grand Rapids, 
                                Michigan
                            . This study was made possible by a Clio Grant from the Indiana Historical
                            Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and the kind assistance of Gerry T. Appleyard of Walton, 
                                England
                            . The author is also indebted to Dr. Robert M. Taylor, Jr., and Thomas A. Mason
                            of the Indiana Historical Society for their encouragement and advice. Photographs were
                            provided by the author. Jane Haney assisted with typing.
                  
                     1 Samuel Fowler Smith autobiography, SC 1372 (Indiana Historical
                            Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). Smith wrote his life story in 1874 at age sixty-six, shortly after his
                            retirement from business life and five years before his death.
                  
                     2 Other studies of individual English immigrants that have contributed
                            to a better understanding of English migration generally include Jacob 
                                Van
                             der Zee, The British in 
                                    Iowa
                                
                      (
                                Iowa
                             City, 1922); Rebecca and Edward Burland, A True Picture of
                                Emigration, ed. Milo M. Quaife (
                                Chicago
                            , 1936); Edward Ffolkes, Letters from a Young Emigrant in 
                                    Manitoba
                                
                     , ed. Ronald A. Wells (Winnipeg, 
                                Manitoba
                            , 1981); Brian P. Birch, "From Southwest 
                                England
                             to Southwest 
                                Wisconsin
                            : Devonshire Hollow, 
                                Lafayette County
                            ," 
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Magazine of History, LXIX (Winter, 1985-1986), 129-49.
               
                    
                    
                  THE ONLY KNOWN SURVIVING PORTRAIT OF SAMUEL FOWLER SMITH, TAKEN TOWARD THE END OF HIS LIFE Courtesy Samuel Fowler Smith
                            relatives Walton, 
                                England
                            .
               
                     in the census, was a little over 11,000 in 1890, yet it is clear
                    that the English impact on the Hoosier state was far greater than these comparatively modest numbers
                    would suggest. Long before Indiana' statehood the English were among the first white people
                    in the region, and they were prominently represented among Indiana' pioneers and early
                    religious and political leaders. Many were known for introducing advanced agricultural methods, for
                    being expert miners, or for bringing important industrial technology and skills from 
                        England
                    , the first industrial nation. Because they shared a common language and political and
                    cultural heritage with most Americans, the English were also quicker than other immigrant groups to
                    assimilate and interact with American-born Hoosiers in civic and social affairs.3
            
            Considering the importance of English immigrants to Indiana, it is surprising that historians have
                    paid such scant attention to them, either as individuals or as a group. John E. Iglehart'
                    lengthy account of an early English colony in 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     and John Poucher' brief account of an English colony in 
                        Floyd County
                    , both published in early issues of the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    are notable exceptions.4 Because these studies are based on the memories of the
                    immigrants themselves and of their children, they have a depth and intimacy that reveal much about
                    the world of early English colonies in the Hoosier state. However, only a small percentage of
                    English immigrants in Indiana formed such "colonies," and these two studies also
                    have the serious limitation of paying virtually no attention to the immigrants’
                    background in 
                        England
                    , which is half of their story. As Frank Thistlethwaite pointed out in a now famous
                    article published in 1960, immigrants can be understood only by viewing them before and after their
                    migration, by treating "the process of migration as a complete sequence of experiences
                    whereby the individual moves from one social identity to another."5
                    Samuel Smith' history invites the kind of analysis that Thistlethwaite called for.
                    Smith' social, economic, and cultural circumstances in his native village; his growing
                    awareness of an alternative life in the New World; his thoughts, painful adjustments, victories, and
                    setbacks as he gradually became a 
                  
                     3 This information is based on the author' larger study on
                            the English and Welsh in Indiana to be published as part of the Indiana Historical
                            Society' Ethnic History Project.
                  
                     4 John E. Iglehart, "The Coming of the English to Indiana in
                            1817 and Their Hoosier Neighbors," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XV (June, 1919), 89-178; John Poucher, "An English Colony in 
                                Floyd County
                            ," ibid., XI (September, 1915), 211-15. See also Joan
                            Truitt, ed., "The Letters of William W. Steevens, 1844-1847: ‘Engaged in
                            the employment of teaching…,"’ Old Fort
                            News (Spring, 1971), 12-17.
                  
                     5 Frank Thistlethwaite, "Migration from Europe Overseas in
                            the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries" (Comite International des Sciences
                            Historiques Rapports; Stockholm, Sweden, 1960), Part V, 37.
               
                     Hoosier—all are laid out in the autobiography with
                    honesty, elegance, and thoughtful reflection.
            One cannot assume, of course, that Smith accurately represents all or even most of the English
                    immigrants of his generation. The English in Indiana came from a variety of places within 
                        England
                     and had disparate levels of skills and means. Surely not many became as successful as
                    Smith did. In many ways, however, Smith was as typical as any other English immigrant in Indiana at
                    this time. He came from Yorkshire, the most common county of origin of English immigrants in the
                    Hoosier state. Like most of his fellow English immigrants he had very limited means and had a skill
                    in addition to some farming experience. Also, he based his decision to emigrate on the rather bleak
                    future he saw for himself in 
                        England
                     and the better life he knew awaited him in Indiana as was related to him by one brother
                    who was already in 
                        Kentucky
                     and another who was in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . As was true of many of the other immigrants of the nineteenth century, Smith was in
                    effect a link in the "chain migration," reliant upon valuable help and advice from
                    people he could trust. Finally, Smith was typical for having a deep religious faith. A devout
                    Methodist in Yorkshire and in Indiana before becoming a leading member of the Second Presbyterian
                    Church of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Smith was very active in his church and took the Bible and Sunday preaching very
                        seriously.6 Smith himself turned down a chance to remain in 
                        England
                     and become a preacher, and as he looked back on a life that succeeded beyond his
                    wildest dreams, he drew the startling conclusion, "I made a mistake in the course I took
                    … I missed my way and made a wrong choice." As a businessman he suffered some
                    consequences for his faith-centered life when he rather naïvely chose his business
                    partners not for their abilities and working habits but for their faithful church attendance and
                    personal piety. Barring this last trait, however, many of Smith' experiences and general
                    characteristics were common among the English immigrants of the pre—Civil War era.
            To understand Smith and his decision to migrate to Indiana one must consider his background in
                    Walton, a typically quaint Yorkshire village about ten miles southwest of the great cathedral city
                    of York. Walton has a very long and rich history—even by English standards. Its name
                    comes from "Wale-tun," or "village of the Welsh," a reference to
                    its traditional origin as a place where the ancient Britons had maintained a settlement despite the
                    successful Roman invasions of the first century and the establishment of their 
                  
                     6 The deep religiosity of English immigrants in Indiana, especially
                            among the Methodists, is also a central theme in Poucher' study of the English in 
                                Floyd County
                            , as well as in many of the brief biographies of English immigrants that are
                            found in Indiana' county histories.
               
                     huge military city of Eboracum (now York) in A.D. 71.7 Walton is mentioned in William the Conqueror' Domesday Book (1085),
                    and during the medieval period it had ecclesiastical ties with York. St. Peter' Church,
                    which sits majestically across the street from where Smith was born and raised and in which he was
                    baptized in January of 1809, dates from the twelfth century. A few miles to the east lies Marston
                    Moor, where Sir Thomas Fairfax (whose grand house still stands in Walton) teamed up with Oliver
                    Cromwell in 1644 to defeat King Charles I' troops in the greatest battle of the English
                    Civil War. Smith' appreciation for his local history is evident in his autobiography, as is
                    his deep love for Walton. He would recognize much of Walton if he could visit it today. Though
                    modern changes have of course occurred, the church and many of the houses and cottages remain in a
                    pleasant pastoral setting, and Smith might again have said, "The old village …
                    seemed the most lovely spot upon earth, and it was like tearing heart strings to leave it."
            Smith' social and economic background helps explain his emigration. His father, also Samuel,
                    was "well read" and one of the leading citizens of the village. In addition to
                    being the village schoolmaster, as he was described in the 1841 census manuscripts,8 he was also the village shopkeeper and a tenant farmer of about fifty acres. The elder Smith
                    also had a busy life as parish clerk for St. Peter' Church and, apparently without any
                    sense of conflict, leader for the local Methodists, who met in his house directly opposite St.
                    Peter'. This busy and religious environment helps explain the younger Samuel
                    Smith' drive to achieve economic success as well as his sense of calling to the
                    ministry—two very different paths in life. Despite their local prominence, however, the
                    Smith family suffered economic hardship from time to time. Disease plagued their livestock and
                    crops, their small shop was sometimes a drain on their meager resources, and at times they were
                    unable to pay the rent on their house.
            Smith recounts these various early hardships and other life-forming trials (including the time when
                    his cousin nearly seduced him). During his seven years as a shoemaker' apprentice in nearby
                    Tadcaster, he faced tradition-bound limitations, including a prejudice against booklearning for
                    apprentices, which frustrated his ambitions and cultivated an early interest in emigration to
                    America. The Smiths could hardly have escaped hearing about the New World because many of the people
                    in this corner of Yorkshire were opting to emigrate to the 
                        United States
                    . In fact, the detailed notes 
                  
                     7 The village' official name is
                            Walton-in-Ainsty—"Ainsty" being an area bounded by the rivers
                            Nidd, Ouse, and Warfe—to distinguish it from other Waltons in 
                                England
                            . See Edmund Bogg, Lower Warfedale: The Old City of York and the
                                Ainsty, the Region of Historic Memories (York, 
                                England
                            , 1904).
                  
                     8 Census of Great Britain, 1841, census schedules for the District of
                            Tadcaster, parish of Walton. Microfilms of these census manuscripts are located in the 
                                North Yorkshire
                             County Library, York, 
                                England
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  WALTON VILLIAGE AS IT APPEARED IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY THE TOWER OF ST.
                                PETER' CHURCH IS VISIBLE IN
                                THE BACKGROUND.
               
                    
                    
                  ST. PETER' CHURCH, WHICH CROWNS
                            THE HILL OVERLOOKING
                            THE VILLAGE
                            OF WALTON. ENGLAND
                  
                in the British census ascribe the fall in population in some local parishes during the
                    1830s to emigration9 It is clear that Smith and his brothers were following many
                    other local persons in the long and perilous journey to America.
            Walton apparently did not hold enough economic opportunity for someone as ambitious and capable as
                    Samuel Smith. The village' population was quite stagnant and actually fell from 247 in 1821
                    to 237 in 1831. In 1851 it numbered only 245. Furthermore, the Walton area had gone through a long
                    period of relative agricultural depression, an adverse circumstance for young skilled artisans like
                    Smith who needed a prosperous agricultural population for their own survival, especially when they
                    had to compete with one another for business.10 As it turned out, Smith found
                    work in 
                  
                     9
                            Census of Great Britain, 1851, Population Tables I, vol. II, div. ix, p.
                            47.
                  
                     10 For the economic problems of the area see Robert Unwin, Wetherby: The History of a Yorkshire Market Town (Wetherby, 
                                England
                            , 1986). The census reveals that by 1841 Walton already had four shoemakers to
                            serve such a small population. See note 8 above; see also Census of Great
                                Britain, 1851, Population Tables I, vol. II, div. ix, p. 48.
               
                     nearby towns, so his emigration was not simply an escape from
                    hardship and distress but apparently more a determination to fulfill ambitions and make the most of
                    his life. As he recalled, "while working in the shoe shop I felt that I was capable of
                    something better; and yet I could see nothing better before me there." These statements
                    were echoed by so many of the other English immigrants who entered America during the
                    pre—Civil War era.
            Smith certainly was "capable of something better," as were most of the other
                    Yorkshire people who left for Indiana and other states during the nineteenth century. He had
                    capabilities and sensibilities that distinguished him from most of the folk who stayed behind in
                    Britain. For example, he was, by his own account, a "voracious reader," a lover of
                    poetry and nature, and he had a drive and intelligence that did not characterize all of the
                    Yorkshiremen of his class. Smith is a good example of the fact that English emigrants were often
                    those with skills and some education as well as considerable ambition and drive—enough to
                    endure the physical and psychological rigors of uprooting themselves and taking a long and arduous
                    voyage across the Atlantic Ocean. The frequent complaints in Britain' Parliament that the
                    "best" of 
                        England
                     were leaving for America did have some justification, and Indiana could only have
                    benefited from receiving such people.11
            
            Having made the decision to emigrate, Smith had to find the means to go, as well as a way to overcome
                    the guilt he felt about leaving his aging parents. The first problem was rather easily solved: after
                    working near Leeds for a couple of years, he accepted an offer to go back to Tadcaster and manage
                    the shop of his old master, Thomas Lockwood, and thus was able to accumulate about one hundred
                    pounds by the time of his emigration. The second was far harder. His parting became a
                    "terrible ordeal," the likes of which were all too familiar to so many emigrants
                    of this period. Smith' vivid retelling of the agony of his departure from his family serves
                    as a good reminder of how emotionally painful emigration could be.
            If Smith' English world of the 1830s was in many ways static, unchanging, and economically
                    stagnant, the one he entered in Indiana was changing and developing at a bewildering pace.
                    Indiana' population jumped from a third of a million in 1830 to over two-thirds of a
                    million just ten years later. By 1850 the population stood at just under one million.12 A market economy was developing in 
                  
                     11 For studies indicating that migrants were often more ambitious and
                            educated than nonmigrants, see J. D. Marshall, "Some Aspects of the Social History
                            of 19th Century Cumbria: Migration and Literacy," Transactions of the
                                Cumberland and Westmorland Antiquarian and Archeological Society, LXIX (1969), 294;
                            Barbara Kerr, "The Dorset Agricultural Labourer, 1750-1850," Proceedings of the Dorset Natural History and Archeological Society, LXXXIV
                            (1962), 174.
                  
                     12 The more exact figures are 343,031; 685,866; and 988,416 in 1830,
                            1840, and 1850 respectively. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850; Vol. I, Population, 781.
               
                     the wake of a rapidly moving westward frontier, and early
                    industries were sprouting up in many places while good farmland still sold at bargain prices.
                    Clearly, in terms of economic and social advancement and options for life, Indiana offered a great
                    deal more to Smith than did his native Yorkshire, although there was a psychological and emotional
                    price to pay. These comparative advantages in Indiana, together with Smith' ambition,
                    energy, sense of adventure, and determination to seek his destiny, all influenced his decision to
                    emigrate.
            Smith' description of his migration from Yorkshire to Indiana is a
                    "classic" immigrant tale of adventure, hardship, and ultimately success. After
                    falling victim to the infamous swindlers, or "runners," at 
                        Liverpool
                    , Smith took second cabin accommodations aboard the Elisha Dennison,
                    an American "temperance" sailing ship, and endured a typical month-long voyage,
                    complete with storms so severe that he had to lash himself to the deck while he fully expected to
                    die. Smith landed in 
                        New York
                     on November 3, 1835. The Elisha Dennison' passenger list
                    indicates that it was a small ship of only 359 tons and that Smith had only seventy-two fellow
                    passengers—eighteen Irish, one Scot, the rest English. The majority were traveling in
                    family groups, but Smith appears on the list as a single individual. Among the emigrants aboard the
                        Elisha Dennison, farmers outnumbered all others although roughly half were
                    either tailors, mechanics, clerks, or miners. There was also a laborer and a doctor. Interestingly,
                    Smith is described as a farmer.13 It is possible that he so described himself
                    because of his experience on his father' fifty acres in Walton and because he no longer
                    considered himself a shoemaker at this stage in his life. Unfortunately, Smith spends surprisingly
                    little time recounting the voyage, but no doubt he experienced the combination of sickness, terror,
                    boredom, and anxiety that seem to have been practically universal for Atlantic voyages at the
                        time.14 More important to Smith were his memories of his first taste of
                    America, his trip via the Erie Canal and Great Lakes to the wild Indiana frontier, his meeting with
                    Lyman Beecher, and his emotional reunion with the brother he had not seen for fourteen years.
                    Smith' descriptions of 
                        Logansport
                     (which still had tree stumps in the streets) is interesting, as is his observation of
                    the removal of the Potawatomi and Miami Indians by the "greedy land speculators."
                    Smith, like many other English 
                  
                     13 Passenger Lists of Vessels Amving at 
                                New York
                            , National Archives Microfilm series 237, roll 28, ship number 826. Smith
                            appears in a cluster of three farmers, and his occupation is designated by ditto marks, a
                            common and problematic feature for historians using the passenger lists.
                  
                     14 Graphic firsthand accounts of English immigrants’
                            voyages to America during the sailing ship era can be found in Terry Coleman, Passage to America: A History of Emigration from 
                                    Great Britain
                                 and 
                                    Ireland
                                 to America in the Nineteenth Century (
                                London
                            , 1972).
               
                     immigrants, was apparently more sympathetic toward the Native
                    Americans than the average native-born Hoosier, in part because he was not raised on the frontier
                    where prejudice against them was likely to fester and grow.15
            
            During his early days in America Smith had experiences that were common to many English immigrants
                    entering the Old Northwest during the antebellum era. For example, although he had not intended to
                    resume his trade in shoemaking, he was soon compelled to do so for his survival. Also, he virtually
                    had to re-learn his craft when he was forced to use wooden pegs instead of the shoe nails that were
                    more readily available in 
                        England
                    . And he was initially so struck by homesickness that he became determined to return to 
                        England
                     the first chance he got. However, after spending some time with his brother in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    —a "small village" at the time—and surviving
                    fevers and other difficulties in Indiana, 
                        Ohio
                    , and 
                        Kentucky
                    , he finally saw an opportunity to settle down in 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, and set up his own shoe business. His success there, his involvement in
                    church life, and above all his marriage to 
                        Vermont
                    -born Belvidere Roberts allowed him to become rooted in American life and begin the
                    process of assimilation. The 1850 manuscript census for 
                        Madison
                     lists Smith as a "merchant" with a stated real estate value of
                    $3,000 and with two children.16
            
            The most dramatic event in this period of Smith' life was his return visit to Walton in
                    1853. This time he made the crossing in only fourteen days aboard the new steamship City of 
                            Glasgow
                        . Having spent eighteen years in America, he found that he had become, in his
                    words, "thoroughly Americanized," while his old village had remained the same. His
                    reunion with his blind eighty-three-year-old father was very touching and well timed: within a few
                    days the father died, and Smith erected the tombstone that still stands in St. Peter'
                    churchyard.
            Interestingly, Smith had changed so much by 1853 that in his native village he was struck by the
                    "oddity of the Yorkshire dialect," 
                  
                     15 Interestingly, another English immigrant, the artist George Winter,
                            was also observing the displacement of the Potawatomis and Miamis during the late 1830s and
                            early 1840s. In 1838 the Potawatomis were forced across the Mississippi
                            River along the infamous "Trail of Death." An estimated eight
                            hundred Potawatomis left Indiana for the 
                                Kansas
                             area; approximately 650 arrived there. Irving McKee, ed., The
                                Trail of Death: Letters of Benjamin Marie Petit (Indiana Historical Society
                            Publications, Vol. XIV, No. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1941), 106. Winter' sketches, paintings, and journals have survived
                            as an important record of these Native Americans and their struggles and have recently been
                            presented in Indians and a Changing Frontier: The Art of George Winter,
                            comp. Sarah E. Cooke and Rachel B. Ramadhyani; essays by Christian F. Feest and R. David
                            Edmunds (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1993). For more details see James H. Madison, The Indiana Way: A
                                State History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1986), 124-25; and R. David Edmunds, "‘Designing
                            Men, Seeking a Fortune’: Indian Traders and the Potawatomi Claims Payment of
                            1836," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVII (June, 1981), 109-22.
                  
                     16 U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, Population Schedules for 
                                Jefferson County
                            , Indiana, microfilm series 432, reel 154, p. 119.
               
                     with which he himself had had some difficulty during his early
                    years in Indiana. After a pleasant tour of 
                        England
                     Smith returned to his shoe business in 
                        Madison
                    . Within two years, however, the town experienced a serious economic slump, which Smith
                    ascribed to "several new railroads cutting off its best trade." In response Smith
                    began "to cast about for a new locality," and in the spring of 1855 he left his
                    shoe business in 
                        Madison
                     and moved to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to enter a partnership with Judson R. Osgood to make lasts and pegs for the growing
                    shoemaking industry. Osgood was by 1850 the largest manufacturer in Indiana' boot and shoe
                    industry. His steam-powered last and peg factory employed fifteen men and produced $8,000
                    worth of goods during that year.17 Through 
                        Osgood
                     there also came a short-term but crucial relationship with Lyman M. Bugby, who made
                    wooden hubs for carriage wheels. Here were the origins of 
                        Osgood
                    , Smith & Company, which grew into the enormously successful Woodburn Sarven
                    Wheel Company, incorporated in 1870, with Smith and Osgood at the helm.
            The decision to team up with Osgood was made as much by Smith' wife, Belvidere, as it was by
                    Smith himself, and it was actually 
                        Osgood
                    ' sterling "religious character" that convinced the Smiths to
                    form the partnership with him. Smith recounts with agony his later realization that Osgood'
                    business ability, habits, and ethics, not to mention his credit, were hardly the stuff of which
                    successful businesses were made. Smith does not hesitate to claim that it was only his own hard work
                    and ability that allowed the business to survive and grow. "For many years," he
                    claims, "I did the work of both partners." 
                        Osgood
                     might not have seen it that way, but Smith sounds sincere and convincing.18 The other partner, Bugby, was even more hopeless than 
                        Osgood
                    . In Smith' eyes "he was as ignorant as a dolt and yet would not
                    acknowledge it" and worse still was "a deception and fraud." Smith and
                    Osgood soon bought Bugby out of the business and, at Smith' urging, began to focus on
                    producing wheels, which clearly had a more promising future than manufacturing lasts and pegs. Smith
                    and Osgood proceeded to forge a close and productive relationship, although Smith did clearly retain
                    some bitterness over his disappointments with 
                  
                     17 James H. Madison, "Businessmen and the Business Community
                            in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1820-1860" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1972), 123.
                  
                     18 Judson R. Osgood' religious character was apparently
                            genuine. The son of a missionary to 
                                Burma
                            , he was remembered as a "leading spirit" in the First Baptist
                            Church of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and as a man "thoroughly identified with the progress of
                            Christianity." Osgood was superintendent of the Sunday School for over twenty
                            years, was an active member of the Benevolent Society of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and was appointed by Governor Conrad Baker to the Board of Control of the
                            State Home for Juvenile Offenders. Indianapolis Sentinel, May 25, 1871; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 25, 1871. Smith records, however, that Osgood often cheated
                            customers and did not apply his Christian ideals to his business.
               
                    
                    
                  SAMUEL FOWLER SMITH' GRAVE MARKER IN CROWN HILL CEMETERY, INDIANAPOLIS (LOT 9, SECTION 1)
                his partner. The two men share adjacent lots in Crown Hill Cemetery
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and lie underneath nearly identical soaring obelisks.
            In spite of the strained relations at the top of management and a devastating fire in 1864 that
                    involved a loss of $20,000, 
                        Osgood
                    , Smith & Company steadily prospered during the 1860s to become one of the
                    world' pioneers in the production of modern, mass-produced carriage wheels. The
                    manufacturing census for 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1860 shows that Osgood and Smith were already concentrating on wheel production with
                    $55,000 of capital investment. They used one steam engine to drive their machinery and
                    employed an average of forty-six men at an average monthly cost of $960 to produce over
                    $40,000 worth of spokes, hubs, lasts, and other items per year.19 And
                    whatever faults Smith saw in his partner, they were not apparent to outside observers. The Dun
                    & Bradstreet Credit Ledgers from 1859 through 1870 contain nothing but the highest 
                  
                     19 U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, Industry (Manufacturing) Schedules for 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana, roll 3777.
               
                     praise for the two men and their business. "First Rate
                    Firm," "Thriving business and trade," "both active and religious
                    businessmen," and "first rate characters, honest and reliable" are the
                    typical assessments.20
            
            By February, 1862, 
                        Osgood
                    , Smith & Company were filling military contracts for lasts and pegs for the
                    Civil War, and in 1865 the company took a major step when it bought out the Woodburn & Scott
                    Company (a competing wheel manufacturer in 
                        St. Louis
                     that had the patent rights to the "Sarven wheel") and subsequently
                    became the largest wheel manufacturer in the country.21 The 
                        St. Louis
                     house took the name Woodburn, Smith & Company and bought a controlling interest
                    in a factory in 
                        Illinois
                     that made carriage materials to supply the 
                        St. Louis
                     house. In 1869 
                        Osgood
                    , Smith & Company acquired timber land in 
                        Orange County
                     and erected their own sawmill to supply the growing 
                        Indianapolis
                     factory with lumber. By 1870, when it had changed to the joint-stock company, Woodburn
                    Sarven Wheel Company, it had $350,000 worth of capital invested, employed an average work
                    force of 380 men with an annual labor cost of $90,000, and produced $250,000
                    worth of products per year. It used a one-hundred-horsepower steam engine to drive twenty-seven
                    lathes, eighteen polishing machines, and forty other similar devices, and the factory was described
                    as "one of the most extensive of the kind in the country … employing more than
                        $1,000,000."22
            
            Thus by the postbellum period Smith' company was widely referred to as one of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ' "oldest and best firms"; and in October of 1870, shortly
                    after its incorporation and before Smith' retirement—and Osgood' sudden
                    death from typhoid in 1871—it was "doing a prosperous business and making money
                    fast, very reliable, prompt and safe."23 In 1870 Smith declared his
                    real estate value at $11,000 and his personal estate value at $46,000. He also
                        
                  
                     20 Dun & Bradstreet Credit Ledgers, I-79 (February, 1859,
                            January, 1861, May, 18651, I-200 (November, 1868).
                  
                     21 The Sarven wheel, as described at the time, was "the only
                            wheel manufactured having a mortised wood hub and turned spokes, supported by flanges which
                            are connected by rivets …. The hubs and spokes are mortised and tenoned like the
                            common wheel, but in addition to this the spokes are mitered so as to form a solid arch
                            outside of the hub. The face of the spoke is dressed with the most perfect accuracy by
                            machinery; then two flanges made of choice malleable iron are fitted to the hubs and spokes
                            and riveted through. This sustains and supports the arch formed by the spokes and yet leaves
                            the same elasticity of wood in the hub and spokes that is in the common wheel." Manufacturing and Mercantile Resources of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 414.
                  
                     22 U.S., Ninth Census, 1870, Industry (Manufacturing) Schedules for 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana, roll 3775; William R. Holloway, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                : A Historical and Statistical Sketch of the Railroad City … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 363.
                  
                     23 Dun & Bradstreet Credit Ledgers, I-200 (October, 1870). The
                            ledgers record for May, 1865, that the company was worth $40,000, and for
                            November, 1868, from $60,000 to $70,000, "a good part of
                            it… unencumbered."
               
                     had three domestic servants living with him and his second wife
                    and five children.24
            
            The magnitude of Smith' success, measured in terms of the size of his business and its
                    importance to Indiana' industrial history, was impressive and was in large part the result
                    of his own hard efforts and capital. The company' ideal location was also an important
                    factor. With easy access to high-grade walnut, oak, hickory, and other hardwoods, the company could
                    tap the growing wheel market that served not only the westward movement but also the growing cities
                    in the eastern states and Old Northwest.
            This thriving enterprise also owed much to the skilled workers who were attracted to the company by
                    its fairly generous wages. Among them the most important and famous was surely John Muir. After
                    emigrating from 
                        Scotland
                     to 
                        Wisconsin
                     with his family in 1849 at age eleven, Muir used his extraordinary mechanical skills to
                    gain a position at 
                        Osgood
                    , Smith & Company in 1866. Put in charge of the circular saws for an impressive
                    $18 per week, he was soon paid $25 per week after he had designed the device
                    that automatically produced the spokes, hubs, and exterior rims of the Sarven wheel. Muir then
                    brought greater efficiency to the company by redesigning the belt system and tightening the
                    factory' organization. Osgood and Smith were so impressed with Muir' many
                    abilities that they were ready to follow his advice on extending the factory and perhaps offer him a
                    partnership. However, after a serious eye injury while at work in March of 1867, Muir decided to
                    change the course of his life and leave 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The company' loss was the nation' gain as Muir then moved west to
                    pursue his interests as a naturalist, eventually writing his books on the natural beauty of the West
                    and founding in 1892 the Sierra Club, of which he was president until his death in 1914.25
            
            By the time Smith died in 1879 (and in spite of another devastating fire in 1873, which took the life
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ' chief fire engineer and after which Smith retired) the Woodburn Sarven Wheel
                    Company was said to be the "most extensive [establishment] of its kind in the
                        world."26 Its buildings on 
                        Illinois
                     Street covered seven acres, it employed over five hundred skilled men to whom was paid
                    $200,000 per year in wages, it produced wheels worth $700,000 per year, and it
                    had over $1,000,000 of capital investment. By 1887 its operations extended
                    "throughout the entire 
                  United States, Canada, England
                and 
                        Australia
                    ," including a branch house 
                  
                     24 U.S., Ninth Census, 1870, Population Schedules for 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, roll 340, p. 52.
                  
                     25 Catherine Forrest Weber, "A Genius in the Best Sense: John
                            Muir, Earth, and 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V
                            (Winter, 1993), 36-47.
                  
                     26
                            Manufacturing and Mercantile Resources of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 414.
               
                    
                    
                  THE WOODBURN "SARVEN WHEEL" COMPANY WORKS, 230
                                SOUTH ILLINOIS STREET, INDIANAPOLIS, AS IT APPEARED
                            IN
                            AN ENGRAVING
                            IN 1884
                  Reproduced from Berry R Sulgrove. History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                . Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884), 460
                in 
                        Boston
                     and a factory at 
                  St. Catherines,
                            Ontario
               . By that time Smith'
                    son-in-law, Julius F. Pratt, was vice-president and treasurer, the same positions filled by Smith.
                    Pratt, however, began to diversify his interests and soon became treasurer of the
                    Consumers’ Gas Trust Company, a major stockholder in the Jenny Electric Motor Company,
                    and also vice-president and treasurer of the Atlas Engine Works, all of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .27 Thus the wealth and business that Smith had helped create in 
                        Indianapolis
                     filtered into other 
                  
                     27
                            Commerce, Manufactures and Resources of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana: A Historical, Statistical, and Descriptive Review (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1887), 55-57; Max R. Hyman, ed., Hyman' Hand Book of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : An Outline History … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1897), 374, 377; Berry R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                , Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884), 459-60.
               
                    
                     important industries of the city as the Woodburn Sarven Wheel Company met its natural
                    demise in the declining wooden carriage wheel industry near the turn of the century.
            At the end of his story, as he reflects much on his spiritual and personal life, Smith seems
                    unimpressed with his economic success. The English shoemaker, now a retired businessman, had never
                    lost his perspective that one' life is not to be measured in terms of mere material gain.
            
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                    , June 15, 18741
            
            Being at present out of active business, and being in possession of what I never had before, a little
                    spare time, I have determined for my own pleasure and satisfaction … to take a retrospect
                    of my life …. I was born in the village of Walton, December 22, 1808. Walton, and the
                    land around it is, with a few exceptions, the property of the Fox family, whose residence is at 
                        Bramham Park
                    , about four miles distant. This is part of the estate of the celebrated Fairfax family.
                    Part of them, among which is a Lord Fairfax, are buried in the old Church. Among my earliest
                    recollections is the dread with which I looked upon the effigy of an old warrior, in complete armor,
                    lying in state, with his faithful dog at his feet, and being told that every night at 12
                    o'clock the dog brought his master a drink of water from a neighboring spring.2 The Fairfax family lost their property on account of the part they took in the
                    Revolution under Cromwell….
            My father was one of the tenants of the Walton estate…. Our family have lived in the same
                    house for over two centuries. My father died in the house where he was born, as did his father
                    before him, and both were very old men. My youngest brother, Thomas, lives in the same old stone
                    house, and one of his boys will no doubt follow him.3 Walton is a village of
                    about 300 inhabitants. Being an agricultural village and off the routes of travel, and depending
                    entirely upon the cultivation of the land belonging to it for its support, it changes very little
                    from year to year, either in its character, size, or population…. The old stone church
                    stands on an eminence right opposite our house, in the midst of the church yard, surrounded by the
                    graves and monuments of the inhabitants for five hundred years….
            My father, whose name was Samuel Smith, was in many respects a remarkable man…. He was a
                    man well read, and unusually intelligent for the opportunity he had. He had strong convictions, and
                    had the nerve to carry them out. He was a natural 
                  
                     1 Samuel Fowler Smith' autobiography survives in the form of
                            a typescript of 104 pages (page 86 is missing) copied from the original manuscript by
                            Smith' relatives. The transcription below follows this typed copy as closely as
                            possible. Misspellings and idiosyncrasies in punctuation and grammar, whether those of the
                            typist or of Smith himself, have been retained. Ellipses indicate the omission of phrases,
                            sentences, or sometimes paragraphs deemed tangential to the major thrust of Smith'
                            narrative. In a number of instances a bracketed editor' note summarizes deleted
                            material. Brief identifications of people or places have occasionally been added in
                            brackets.
                  
                     2 The effigy still lies in the church as Smith had seen it and is
                            thought to be that of Sir Nicholas Fairfax, who fought against the Turks as one of the
                            Knights of 
                                Malta
                             on the island of Rhodes during the early sixteenth century. (Actually, the
                            "dog" is a lion, representing bravery.)
                  
                     3 See photograph of the Smith house, page 36. The Smiths lived in the
                            right half of the house, which was pulled down in the late nineteenth century and replaced
                            by a similar building that still stands today.
               
                    
                    
                  THE EFFIGY
                            AND TOMB THAT FRIGHTENED YOUNG SAMUEL SMITH
                            IN ST. PETER' CHURCH
                  
                mechanic, and in his youth invented several machines…. For a considerable part
                    of his life he farmed about fifty acres of land, and kept the only shop, or store, in the village.
                    He was for nearly fifty years Parish Clerk, and part of that time, with the assistance of his
                    daughter, taught the village school. For half a century he was the representative of religion in the
                    village, and in this respect occupied a rather odd position. While he was Parish Clerk, performing
                    his duties every Sabbath, in reading from his desk under the pulpit, leading the singing,
                    superintending the Sabbath School of the Parish Church, and managing all the Parish business, as the
                    Rector was a non-resident, yet at the same time (contradictory as it may seem) the Methodists used
                    the larger family room of our house as their place for preaching, and other meetings, for 60 years,
                    and my father was the Class Leader….
            [Editor' note: Here Smith describes the great piety of Walton' Methodists and
                    records the fact that. as a Methodist, his father "suffered a considerable amount of
                    persecution" in his early life.]
            My dear mother' character was as marked as my father', but of an entirely different
                    mould. She was a woman of great energy and activity, ambitious and industrious, but she was of a
                    highly 
                    
                  THE HOUSE
                            IN WHICH SAMUEL SMITH WAS BORN
                            AND RAISED
                  
                nervous temper[a]ment, and very excitable. For many years before her death she was a
                    constant invalid, suffering dreadfully from Asthma, and other diseases. Yet during all these years
                    of suffering she was the same loving wife and mother, constantly caring and planning for her husband
                    and children. It is wonderful how they seemed fitted for each other…. Many times, when
                    misfortune seemed to gather around them, at one time especially when the good Lord seemed trying
                    them like Job, their cattle died, crops failed, money was lost in the store, they were unable to pay
                    the rent and seemed in danger of losing the home of their fathers; yet in all these gloomy days,
                    dark as they were, while mother saw nothing but the workhouse before them, father' trust
                    was unshaken, and his peace undisturbed….
            My first schooling was at 
                        Molly Farrers
                    , where I was sent, like many other children, to keep us out of mischief…. I
                    then attended school and learnt to write, with a cripple named Weatherby, who was a tyrant and
                    abused all boys that he was not afraid of—either them or their parents…. I was
                    at this time between nine and ten years old, and had begun to be a voracious reader. My father had
                    the Spectator, and a few more old English books,—[Edward] Young' Night Thoughts, 
                        Milton
                    , etc. Of these I read all that I could understand. During this time my father and
                    mother very carefully instilled into my mind religious instruction; taught me to dread
                        theft, lying, profanity, Sabbath breaking, and other sins; taught me the simple truths of
                    the gospel, penitence for sin….
            When I was about thirteen years of' age I had learnt to read, write. and cypher a little, my
                    parents thought it time that I should  learn a trade. On looking
                    around, my mother' sister, Aunt Coul-son, living near Tadcaster, a market town four miles
                    distant from our village, was the patron of a shoemaker named Thos. Lockwood, and as a great favor
                    to her he agreed to take me as an apprentice for seven years upon the condition that my father pay a
                    premium of two pounds and provide for my clothing and tools during my apprenticeship, the master
                    agreeing to provide me with aprons…. The papers were all signed and I
                    was alone in the world. Soon as I could find a place I had a good cry, and felt
                    better. Then I began a new life. The boy above me, Tom Hazelwood, was from a low family, could
                    neither read nor write, and seeming to think me an aristocrat that he had to bring down, commenced a
                    course of petty persecution that made my life miserable. He was not a bad fellow, but he seemed to
                    think that I needed the hazing process…. I went home every Sunday morning and returned at
                    night. These walks across the meadows are crowded with associations and recollections. On passing
                    the valley through which the river Wharfe runs there is an eminence near Tadcaster from which our
                    village could be seen. On my solitary return in the summer evenings I used to sit down, and on
                    looking at the village church, and my father' house, tinged by the setting sun, suffer from
                    the heart yearning, home sickness, that cannot be described. The old village, and my
                    father' house, seemed the most lovely spot upon earth, and it was like tearing heart
                    strings to leave it.
            … During these years I was reading every thing I could get hold of. I had read all
                    father' books, and now got [Oliver] Goldsmith' works, which I read with wonderful
                    relish. When I was sixteen years old I had a good, round voice, and was invited to sing with the
                    choir in the Methodist chapel. I now began to pick up music. By working over hours I got a little
                    money and bought a blank music book, and tried to copy tunes. Printed music books were so costly
                    that few were sold. I bought a common flute and tried to learn to play. In all this Mrs. Lockwood
                    was constantly in my way, she never reading any thing herself, honestly believing that no boy could
                    properly learn his trade who had so many crotchets in his head. And this was made apparent by my
                    shopmate, Tom, who worked well at his trade, but could do nothing else. She accordingly tried to
                    make Lockwood, who had more sense but who was a good easy man, to forbid my reading books, playing
                    or writing music, etc…. One very great trouble of this part of my life was my unfortunate
                    impediment of speech. I stuttered awfully…. This almost made my life a
                    burden. I would then have given any thing that I had in the world to talk like other
                        people…. It is rather curious that this misfortune of my youth, that no doubt
                    changed the whole course of my life and largely affected my future destiny, should have almost
                    entirely disappeared in my old age, so that now it is almost a thing of the past….
            
            Developing considerable talent for music, I was appointed to lead the choir in the Methodist Chapel,
                    which I continued to do for several years. It was during this time that my brothers, Benjamin and
                    John, concluded that they could improve their fortune by emigrating to America. Benjamin, after
                    learning his trade, had worked in Leeds, 
                        London
                    , and other large cities and towns. John had for some time been working for Billy
                    Walker, of Walton. This was a great affliction to my parents. Benjamin wrote long letters home,
                    giving glowing accounts of the new country. I then first had the desire to follow him. After my
                    apprenticeship expired I worked with my master as journeyman nearly a year, and went home for one
                    winter. I found out that I had outgrown the old nest, and that the old home that I
                    had thought so lovely was rather a poky place. However, I had a violincello made, and sawed on that
                    all I wanted, and did considerable shoemaking for the village. In the spring I found work at 
                        Knarsboro
                    …. Here I narrowly escaped ruin. I had a cousin,
                    considerably older than myself, who was housekeeper for a rich old man. Having the charge of a large
                    house it was very pleasant to visit her, which I did very frequently. Though she had suffered very
                    much by having an illegitimate child, her amorous inclinations were strong as ever. I was twenty
                    one; she was thirty. She laid snares for me which, if I had fallen into them, would have clouded all
                    my life. She was not a bad woman, but could not control her desires….
            Having now an offer of a good permanent seat of work at 
                        Chapeltown
                     I went to live there. This is a suburb of the great town of Leeds. John Banke, the man
                    I worked for, was a Methodist local preacher. I remained there nearly three years. I established a
                    choir and built a gallery in the church, was appointed Society Steward and Secretary to the Sabbath
                    School….
            After living in Leeds over two years, my old friend and master, Lockwood, made me a tempting offer to
                    go back to Tadcaster and take charge of his shop. As I had then determined on coming to America, and
                    only needed the means to do so, I accepted his offer. I now occupied a different position than I had
                    ever done before, and the year I remained there was perhaps the most important year of my life. It
                    seemed to be a crisis, a pivotal point of my life, upon which the future turned.
                    And I have often thought of what the future might have been if a different direction had been given to my life. My religious experience, and life, at this time was honest and sincere. If I knew my own heart I wanted to know the
                        will of God concerning me, and I think was willing to do it. And to this end I
                    earnestly sought divine aid and direction to enable me to decide aright as to my future course. And
                    yet, on looking back over the way, I cannot help thinking that I made a mistake in
                    the course I took.
            
            On my return to Tadcaster I took an active part in church matters…. And being among my old
                    warm friends, and near home  where I could often run over and see
                    my parents, and being a good deal flattered by my superiors, it may be inferred that I was
                    satisfied, but it was not so. While working in the shoe shop I felt that I was capable of something better; and yet I could see nothing better before me there.
                    If I was to marry I could see nothing but the conditions of thousands of as good shoemakers as
                    myself, supporting a wife and family in poverty, by hard work. My brothers told me of the superior
                    advantages in the new world; that nothing could prevent any man of ordinary talents and industry
                    attaining success and prosperity. My mother up to this time would never give her consent to my
                    taking this step, and I had promised her that I should never go without it, and I never intended to
                    do so. She, however, saw that I was unsettled, and seeing little prospect of any thing else, thought
                    it her duty to make the sacrifice which, hard as it was, she nobly did….
            During this time some things occurred that seemed to indicate future possibilities.
                    I found few of the young men of my associates to be as well read as myself. In order to promote a
                    spirit of inquiry and emulation in them and myself I got up a Theological Society for the purpose of
                    discussion and mental improvement. In order that we might have perfect freedom it was made a secret
                    society. I was elected President. It was a perfect success. Here I made a
                    discovery, both to myself and friends: I found that in these meetings I had a power of speech, an
                    ability to impress an audience, that was unknown either to me or my friends before…. the
                    Rev'd Samuel Dunn, a very noted and eloquent preacher, thought that notwithstanding the
                    impediment in my speech I had the natural talents to make an effective public speaker, and that as I
                    had given evidence of honest and sincere piety I ought to become a minister and
                    preach the gospel. Mr. Dunn called me out of the shop one day and told me that he and all my friends
                    believed that God had called and intended me for a preacher. Thinking this a
                    natural impossibility, I had never given it a thought, and had now made all my arrangements for
                    leaving the country.
            This was undoubtedly the turning point of my life, and though I thought myself
                    sincere and most earnestly asked God to direct me in making choice of the two paths before me; one
                    to stay where I was, try my ability as a local preacher, then if I succeeded, go to the Seminary and
                    after getting an education become a traveling preacher, with no prospect of marrying or settling in
                    life for several years,—or, taking the course that I did. After events always left the
                    impression on my mind that notwithstanding my sincerity I missed my way and made a
                        wrong choice. In after years I found myself capable of producing striking
                    effects upon almost any congregation, and of possessing powers that would have made me a popular and
                    effective speaker. But this is all past; the unknown possibilities have faded away …
            
            … After weighing every thing carefully and sincerely praying for divine direction, I
                    determined upon seeking my home in the new world. My oldest brother, Benjamin, was then settled in
                    business in 
                        Alexandria
                    , a small town in 
                        Kentucky
                    , fourteen miles from 
                        Cincinnati
                    . John was living at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , where he continued to reside until his death in 1874. Though not making much money,
                    their prospects were very much better than mine. Thinking that on account of the impediment in my
                    speech I should never be able to make a public speaker, and consequently that there was nothing for
                    me but the shoe bench, and its stigma and social degradation, without very much prospect of anything
                    else … I concluded to emigrate. This was in the summer of 1835. I found that by September
                    I should have about a hundred pounds. This, by economy, would get me to my brother Benjamin, in 
                        Kentucky
                    . So I arranged to bid farewell to all my friends, and the loved home of my childhood,
                    perhaps forever. I thought it best to keep my project secret until a short time before I was ready
                    to start. I was afraid of my friends and my resolutions….
            I now told my friends of my intention of going away, perhaps forever. I well recollect the little
                    room in which I told my old master, Lockwood. He asked me if I was in earnest; I told him that I
                    was. I can see how his lip quivered and his eyes filled with tears. The terrible ordeal now came of
                    parting forever with my parents, and my sisters and brother. It seemed to me that I loved my mother
                    and my sister Mary Ann dearer than my own soul, and I dreaded the hour of parting. They had been for
                    some time getting my things ready, and I went over home to spend a little time before I started. The
                    last moment came. We had all tried to keep up our spirits, though sadness was in our hearts. Mother,
                    father and sisters were all sitting by the fireside. I walked backward and forward across the room,
                    when, watching my opportunity I said, "I'm off and shot out of the back door and
                    almost ran down the yard towards the orchard, and the gate that opens into the road. My mother and
                    sisters gave one suppressed scream. The time occupied by that walk was the bitterest
                        moment of my life. Truly the concentration of misery. I stopped and thought that I must go back; but I walked on to the land, and then my pent up agony found relief
                    in tears, and my breaking heart found relief in a good cry…. I bid goodbye to my numerous
                    friends that night, and long before daylight next morning took the coach for Leeds, and 
                        Manchester
                    , and there took the railroad, the first ever built and the only one then running to
                        Liverpool.4 Here I met several parties from our part of the county, going to
                    America. We soon found that we had fallen into the hands of sharks who had plundered us
                    unmercifully. But we found an American 
                  
                     4 Here Smith is referring to the Rocket, the first successful railway
                            train, built by the self-made Northumberland engineer George Stephenson in 1830.
               
                     vessel, a sailing brig, in which about twenty-six of us took
                    Second Cabin, and the rest, with a motley crowd, most Irish, took the Steerage. We had hardly got
                    out of the river Mercy before it begun to blow heavily, and we had a gale that drove us towards the
                    dangerous Irish coast. Our vessel, the Elisha Dennison, being a temperance ship, not a drop of
                    liquor was allowed among the stores; the consequences was, that the whole crew had been on a drunk
                    the day and night before coming on board when the storm struck us, every thing was in confusion,
                    with a large crowd of passengers that had never seen the sea before. The experience, and scenes, of
                    that night I shall never forget. I lashed myself to the upper deck with a rope, and expected never
                    to see the morning. When the storm abated we found that we were in a leaky vessel, with the wide
                    Atlantic before us. During that night of confusion and dread, with death, as I thought, just before
                    me, I was calm and my mind was at peace. With varying weather, and many incidents, one long month
                    passed over, when one morning we heard the joyful cry of "Land from the masthead. What to
                    our straining eyes seemed a cloud on the horizon soon showed itself to be terra
                    firma, and we entered the bay of Sandy Hook, 
                        New York
                    . How freshly all these scenes come to my mind; the strange sights and the amusing
                    blunders we made when we got on shore. Everything was new and everything was strange. I spent
                    several days in 
                        New York
                    . I had made the acquaintance of a wealthy 
                        New York
                     merchant, who was one of our passengers. He was very kind to me, inviting me to his
                    house, etc. Several families that came over with us wanting to go West wished me to go with them and
                    do their business. So we all started up the North [Hudson] river for 
                        Albany
                    . We then made a contract for the whole company upon an emigrant boat on the Erie Canal.
                    We were nearly two weeks in reaching Buffalo. When passing through the numerous locks we sometimes
                    made excursions into the country to buy provisions, get fruit, etc. This was during October and
                    November; the weather was fine. On reaching Buffalo we took steamer for 
                        Cleveland
                     and had a very rough passage; we then took canal for Portsmouth. This though long, was
                    a very pleasant part of the journey.5 Here I met my friend Childlaw, who had
                    charge of a company of Welsh emigrants. We took steamboat at 
                        Portsmouth
                     for 
                        Cincinnati
                    , which we reached in four weeks from 
                        New York
                    , arriving early on Sunday morning. Not having been in a church for eight weeks I was
                    anxious to go. Being an utter stranger I went out and thought that I would follow the first stream
                    of people I met, as they would probably lead me to a church. I found such a stream, and was shown
                    into the first house of worship I attended in my new home. I 
                  
                     5 The 
                                Ohio
                             and Erie Canal, begun in 1825 and completed in 1832, linked 
                                Cleveland
                             and Portsmouth, 
                                Ohio
                            . In its 308 miles from Lake Erie to the Ohio
                                River, the canal "climbed up and down a total of 1,206 feet, through
                            149 lift locks and 7 yard locks." Jack Gieck, A Photo Album of 
                                    Ohio
                                ' Canal Era, 1825-1913 (
                        Kent, Ohio
                     , 1988),
                            53-54.
               
                     saw many new things. The people came in without silent prayer; a
                    man without any clerical dress, or appearance bustled up the aisle and went into the pulpit without
                    any of that pulpit decorum that I had been used to. He then went through the services in a very odd
                    manner, pulling his glasses from his forehead and shoving them back many times. I soon found, with
                    all his oddities, that he was a great man, and on asking his name found it was the great Dr. Lyman
                    Beecher. On Monday morning I started out on foot for my brother Benjamin' residence, 
                        Alexandria
                    , about fourteen miles from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Not having seen my brother since I was a boy, and hearing of him only by his own
                    letters, I was a little anxious to learn what kind of a man he had developed into, and what was his
                    character in his new home. I found the country very wild, the roads bad, and though so near 
                        Cincinnati
                    , very thinly settled. While plodding through the woods I met a man on horseback. After
                    he had passed he turned around and asked me if my name was not Smith. This question in this new
                    country in this wild wood startled me. How could anyone know my name? I asked why? He said that he
                    knew my brother, who was expecting me, and then went on to say that I had a brother of which I might
                    be proud; that he was one of the best men in 
                        Campbell County
                    , and he could be elected to any office he might select, etc. etc. This being the first
                    word I had of him, except from himself, for fourteen years, I was very much gratified. I found
                    afterwards that this was Senator De Courcy [William DeCoursey?]. While staying with my brother a few
                    days to decide upon what I should do, I found every thing new and strange. I recollect when the
                    first loaf or pone of cornbread, baked in the vessel in the hot ashes, came on the table, it looked
                    like rich sponge cake, exceedingly tempting to an hungry man, as I then was. But on taking a good
                    bit I found it more like the apples of Sodom, fair to the eye but not good to the taste. And though
                    I found all my brother' family to be fond of and eat it with great relish (indeed they
                    could get little of any thing else) yet though I have been trying nearly forty years to conquer the
                    aversion, I have not succeeded.
            Before leaving 
                        England
                     I had built many airy castles in the air as to what I should do in
                    the new country, though I had brought my shoemaker kit with me, I never expected to use it again. I
                    had chafed many times under the stigma that attaches to the name of shoemaker, and thought that I should now forever throw it off, but I soon found that there
                    were too many men who thought as I did, and that all light employments, as clerkships, etc. were
                    crowded, as they always have been; and I had no money the only thing I could do was to go to work at
                    the hotel shoemaking and thus learn the usages of the trade and make some money. I found that they
                    sewed shoes together with wooden pegs, and many other strange things that I had
                    never seen before; so I got work in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , brought  out my old kit, and again mounted the shoe
                    bench. Finding that I had even my own trade to learn over, and that instead of hosts of friends and
                    a good position in society, I was now a poor shoemaker in a large city. My bubbles all melted into
                    thin air; and that most dreadful feeling, homesickness, came on me with crushing effect. It seemed
                    that I would give every thing that I had in the world if I was only back in the place that I had
                    left. And I fully determined, however humiliating it might be, to return as soon as I could earn the
                    money. I soon, however, made friends and found, as I have done before, that my musical abilities
                    were of very great benefit to me, enabling me to get into society to which my shopmates could not
                    reach. I found that my Yorkshire brogue was against me. I well recollect asking a gentleman at a
                    musical party if his tuning fork was a hay fork, meaning was it "A" or
                    "G". He, to make the bull more pointed, asked me what I said. I could not conceive
                    what they were laughing at, when I, in all simplicity, repeated the question. I soon, however, found
                    where to put the "H", and to do many other things. I stayed and worked during that
                    winter and spring in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and then … made arrangements with my cousin, Benjamin Smith, to go and
                    visit Brother John, who had then a contract on the 
                        Wabash
                     Canal. I accordingly worked at my trade in Rising Sun that summer. Having each a good
                    horse we started for the wilds of Indiana. This was an entirely new life to me. We went through 
                        Ohio
                     to St. Mary' (they were just then making that canal). Then we struck the woods
                    and crossed the Black Swamp.6 We put up usually at the last cabin we came to
                    just before dark, and with one exception always found hospitality, plenty cornbread, bacon, and
                    whiskey. But the woods, when there was any, to my English eyes, were what before I had no conception
                    of. After various adventures we reached 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , then a small village. Here we found my brother, not in as good a condition as
                    Benjamin, but a good man. This was in the height of the land fever. The Pottowatomie tribe of
                    Indians had just sold their land to the Government and were about to be moved to their reservation
                    in the West.7 This brought a greedy horde of land speculators to the Land Office
                    at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Indeed, my companions were on that errand. Hearing of a section of land beyond
                        Eel River, 
                  
                     6 Rising Sun was a small village located on the Ohio
                            River in what was then 
                                Dearborn County
                            , Indiana. The Miami and Erie Canal, upon which Smith traveled, was a composite
                            of three separately authorized canals: the Miami, completed in 1828, from 
                                Cincinnati
                             to 
                                Dayton
                            ; the Miami Extension begun in 1833, from 
                                Dayton
                             to Junction, 
                                Ohio
                            ; and the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie from 
                                Toledo
                             to 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana. When completed in 1845, the Miami Extension passed through St.
                            Mary', 
                                Ohio
                            , where it was joined by a major hydraulic feeder. Gieck, A Photo
                                Album of 
                                    Ohio
                                ' Canal Era, 124-26. The Black Swamp, located in northwestern 
                                Ohio
                             between San-dusky and the Maumee
                            River, measured over one hundred miles long and forty miles wide. The
                            difficulties in traversing the area are described in R. Carlyle Buley, The Old
                                Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1950), I, 460-61.
                  
                     7 See note 15 of introduction, p. 27 above.
               
                     now in what is 
                        Marshall County
                    , that had water power on it, after staying a few days with John we, taking a pocket
                    compass with us, started out to find it. We passed a fine company of Indian braves of the Miami
                    tribe, who still held a fine tract of country comprising several counties this side of the
                        Wabash River.8 We slept in the woods one night, where,
                    for the first time, I heard the "wolfs long howl." In crossing Eel
                    River my companion suffered a bad accident. After he had crossed, in ascending the bank
                    he struck the limb of a tree and knocked himself and horse backwards down the bank into the river. I
                    got him out of the water and on his horse again, and finding a house a few miles off in the woods,
                    we asked their hospitality. We stayed with that excellent family for two weeks before he was able to
                    travel. This family was from 
                        New York
                    , had bought a section of land, just built a large cabin in which the family consisting
                    of father, mother, two grown daughters, two grown sons, one with his wife and some younger children,
                    and yet they made room for two strangers. Seeing the beds close together I wondered how the men and
                    women were ever going to get to bed. When it came bed time I saw the ladies for some cause
                    disappear. When in a few minutes the men were all in bed and the lights put out, and no doubt the
                    women followed. Being very tired I slept sound and awaked next morning to find the women cooking
                    breakfast close by on the stove. I could not see how one could possibly get up with that crowd of
                    women in the room. Whispering this to my cousin, he at once got up and dressed. He had been living
                    in such a house for many years. Not having his experience I anxiously looked for my clothes and had
                    considerable difficulty in finding the way into my pants. I soon, however, settled into their habits
                    and found them most excellent people. We found the land, but it was not what my cousin wanted. We
                    returned to the Wabash River; stayed at Segro [Lagro?]9
                    where my companion died. I then went down to 
                        Logansport
                    . The last payment to the Indians was to be made in a short time, which I was very
                    anxious to see, as I wanted to see a tribe together. Logansport was then just laid out, the stumps
                    of the trees being in the streets. Being between the two tribes it was full of Indians every day.10 Here I saw what rascalities were practiced 
                  
                     8 The New Purchase of 1818 opened most of central Indiana south of the
                                Wabash River for white settlement. Excepted were the large Miami
                            Reserve, comprising several thousand acres with what is now 
                                Kokomo
                             near the center, and several smaller reservations. The Miami held tenaciously
                            to this land until their final cession in 1840. John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 205.
                  
                     9 This bracketed insertion appeared in the typescript from which this
                            transcription was made. Undoubtedly Smith did refer to Lagro, a small village on the
                                Wabash River in 
                                Wabash County
                            .
                  
                     10
                            
                                Logansport
                            , on the Wabash River at the mouth of the Eel, lay
                            approximately between the lands of the Potawatomis and Miamis and had become the site of the
                            federal Indian Agency in 1828. Here the tribes came annually to trade and to receive their
                            annuities from the government. The Potawatomis forced westward to the 
                                Kansas
                             area moved through 
                                Logansport
                             on their journey.
               
                     upon these people. I had only been there a few days when I was
                    taken with bilious fever, and was laid on my back several weeks. I had never been sick before. I
                    found it a hard experience. In my delirium I would suppose that I was at home surrounded by my
                    friends and wake to find myself alone, a stranger in a strange land. After several
                    adventures I left there for 
                        Lafayette
                    . On fording the river I got very wet, and soon after my arrival I was taken with the
                    real old fashioned chill and fever. I intended starting for 
                        Chicago
                    , then a small village, but with good prospects, but a man coming in from there frozen
                    to death upon his horse while crossing the 
                        Grand Prairie
                    , changed my plans.11 I went to work at my trade and so paid my
                    expenses. Here again I found the advantage of my musical abilities of benefit. I soon got into good
                    society and made many friends. Here I found an opening for business, and believing that I could get
                    a little money from my friends I made arrangements to buy out a shop, which I was to take in the
                    spring. In order to carry out this arrangement, I started for 
                        Cincinnati
                    . This took me a week to accomplish. I then for the first and last time saw a prairie on
                    fire. I staid all night at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , then a small town of a few thousand inhabitants. While passing through the dense
                    forests I was one night belated and came upon a cabin in a lonely spot. It was my only chance, and I
                    asked for lodging. The man told me to come in. Murdering travelers for their money was then a common
                    occurrence, and I was afraid that I had fallen in just such a trap. We sat down to a plain supper,
                    but when the man said it was their custom to ask a blessing before eating, it was like a sudden
                    blaze of sunshine flooding the rough cabin and its rough inmates with light, and dispersing all my
                    fears in a moment. Dishonest men never ask a blessing. I got into 
                        Cincinnati
                     on Christmas day. I now had the dumb chills again and was very much out of health; but
                    I got work and intended to remain until time to return in the spring. That winter was a critical
                    turn of my life. My health was poor; my religious associations all broken up; my business plans
                    disappointed—all produced great mental depression. I was then strongly tempted to use brandy as an antidote, as many a poor fellow has done before. But I saw the gulf,
                    and God in his mercy preserved me. Had I once began I had been
                    lost. The dreadful panic of 1837 came on in the spring, and not getting any letters from 
                        Lafayette
                     I worked on in 
                        Cincinnati
                     for a year, when a shoemaker strike drove me to … 
                        Kentucky
                    . Here I staid some months…. That fall I returned to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , got a fair seat of work and worked very hard. I saw that if I ever had any thing it
                    must be through hard work. I worked from 12 to 15 hours a day, except the evenings
                    devoted to music…. I had long given up all thoughts of returning to 
                        England
                     and was lending 
                  
                     11 The 
                                Grand Prairie
                             encompassed the large area of flat, wet lands in northwestern Indiana and in
                            adjacent 
                                Illinois
                            .
               
                     all my energies to earning a small sum to start a little shop of
                    my own in some small town. Having scraped together about $700.00 I heard of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana as a thriving town. I accordingly took the mail boat and went down to see it.
                    I found it about the size and general appearance that I wanted,12 and thinking
                    that I saw an opening for my business I rented a small room. I then laid in a stock of tools and
                    materials and taking three of my shopmates, good workmen, with me, started for my new home. I found
                    very keen competition from men of heavy capital. But here again my voice, and the ability to use it,
                    were of great service to me. One of the leading men of Wesley Chapel had heard of me in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and wanted me to get them up a choir…. In order to do this they wanted me
                    to teach a singing school to the whole church. I had never done any thing of this kind; but the
                    flattering offer of $150.00 decided me to make the attempt. This I did, with much
                    trembling, but succeeded far better than I expected. The Second Presbyterian Church now offered me a
                    salary to lead their choir, but as the Wesley Chapel friends had first taken me up I would not leave
                    them. The Second Presbyterian Church holding their services morning and afternoon, they proposed to
                    pay me for rehearsing with their choir during the week, and singing with them on Sunday afternoons.
                    Thus for some time I led the choirs of two churches at the same time. These connections I found very
                    beneficial to my business, which I followed as closely and economically as possible….
                    After a while I took a large room and increased my stock. Though during this time, through my choir
                    and singing school, I mingled a good deal with female society, and was getting into circumstances
                    that I could support a wife, I did not meet with any person that possessed what I thought the
                    necessary qualifications for making a good wife; so I appeared to settle into a confirmed old
                    bachelor. I worked hard and paid close attention to my business. During this time I paid close
                    attention to music. I was leader in two church choirs, president of a musical society composed of
                    all the best singers in the city, and at the same time helped to get up and form a brass band, and
                    was elected Captain of it, which position I held as long as it remained in existence. Instead of
                    letting these musical engagements interfere and injure my business, I made them contribute to its
                    prosperity. This it did by giving me publicity and making me friends. So though I had not much
                    capital, and had to meet keen competition, yet by close attention to my business, and a willingness
                    to oblige, I made many friends and prospered.
            [Editor' note: In the text that is deleted here, Smith recounts his
                    experiences with his church choirs and his courtship and marriage in 1844 to 
                        Vermont
                    -born Belvidere Roberts, who was twenty-four years old, the sister-in-law of
                    Smith' pastor, and a 
                  
                     12 In 1840 
                                Madison
                            ' population was 3,798. U.S., Sixth Census, 1840;
                            Vol. I, Population, 355.
               
                     member of his choir. Smith writes, "Though she could
                    not be called handsome … her dress and appearance was always neat and
                    appropriate…. [She was] a girl of good sense, no flippery, finery, or
                    foolishness about her…. I was very much pleased, not only with her good sense, but also
                    with her sprightliness and wit, and the overflowing geniality of her disposition. I found on inquiry
                    that she was not only well educated but that she was notable as a housekeeper, and skilled in all
                    domestic matters." Smith then recounts the birth of his first three children—two
                    of whom died in infancy, one from an Asiatic cholera epidemic that swept through 
                        Madison
                     in 1849. As Smith says, "Those were days of gloom and great
                    distress." Also during this period Smith transferred his church membership from the
                    Methodist to the Second Presbyterian Church, where his new brother-in-law was pastor. The narrative
                    resumes where Smith makes his dramatic return trip to 
                        England
                    .]
            Though during this time my expenses were heavy, yet I had a steady business and besides supporting my
                    family cleared from $500.00 to $1000.00 a year…. This spring I
                    carried out a project that had been on my mind for many years,-a visit to my old home. The day that
                    I left home I promised my parents that if circumstances ever permitted me to do so that I would
                    return and visit them before they died. This promise, with the heart longing desire I had, to see my
                    old home, and my father, who was then in his 83rd year, determined me to make the attempt. My
                    excellent little wife, seeing me restless and anxious to make the trip, urged me to do it; so
                    putting my business in order (I then had an excellent and trusty foreman, S. O. Charlesworth) in
                    company with my friend Arthur Orr, who wanted to return to 
                        Ireland
                    , I started for home. Having to buy some goods in 
                        Cincinnati
                     I stopped one day as I went East. I remember when lying in bed that night at the hotel,
                    and looking at the home I had left, and at the journey before me, my courage almost forsook me, and
                    my heart so yearned for my own fireside and the loved ones around it, that if it had not been for
                    the fear of being laughed at, I would have been tempted to have turned back. But I hurried on to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , there met my friend Orr, we engaged passage on the iron steamship "City of
                    Glascoe," and after a pleasant passage of twelve days landed in 
                        England
                    . Some particulars of this ship may be named: She was owned in 
                        Scotland
                    ; her officers were Scotchmen; her captain, Wylie, was so popular with the passengers
                    that a valuable piece of silver plate, with a vote of thanks, was presented to him. I was appointed,
                    with another gentleman, to purchase and present it to him. After we landed in Liverpool another
                    striking fact was that this ship, as fine a sea boat as ever rode the top of a wave, was lost with
                    every soul on board, a few months after she had taken us so safely and pleasantly across. Not a
                    vestige or spar was ever seen of her after she left 
                        Philadelphia
                    , nor a soul left to tell the tale of her destruction. I was providentially saved from
                    the calamity.
            It was now eighteen years since I had left the fast anchored Isle, at the time of life when the mind
                    is usually formed, moulded, and hardened for life. My experience had been a varied one, I had  begun at the bottom. My illusory dreams and bright visions of
                    this land of promise having all vanished, and through disappointment, poverty and sickness, by
                    steady perseverance, had worked my way upward so that now I had a good house and home of my own, a
                    dear good wife and four children; had a prosperous business, was a citizen of no mean city, had
                    voted for several Presidents of the Republic. I had thus become thoroughly Americanized in taste,
                    thought and feeling, so that when I landed in Liverpool every thing seemed almost as strange as they
                    did when I landed in 
                        New York
                     …. I had just this mingling of feeling,-strangeness and familiarity. Landing
                    on Sunday morning I heard the first sweet chimes of bells that I had heard since leaving that port
                    eighteen years ago. How sweetly they sounded in my ears; what blessed recollections they brought to
                    my mind. They seemed to welcome me home; and yet, how strange seemed the narrow streets, and the
                    heavy, unsightly buildings; how heavy and clumsy were all the vehicles from the dray to the carnage;
                    how slow and steady the pace of the fat, elephantine horses; how different the Yankee quickness,
                    lightness, elegance and snap that I had been so long used to and that I so much admired…. After much delighting our little Scotch Captain with our gift of
                    silver plate I turned my steps toward home.
            I now soon found that in this old, steady, slow country, Time had made some rapid and wonderful
                    changes while I had been away. I had come to 
                        Manchester
                     by the old, slow stage coach, a tedious, cold and wet ride. It seemed natural for me to
                    look for the same experience; and yet I had hardly got comfortably settled in the railway carriage
                    before first one town and then another that used to be a great distance apart, were called. It
                    seemed hard to realize that the hitherto insurmountable distance that had kept
                    these large and busy centers apart from each other had been annihilated, and that the genius and
                    pluck of the collier, George Stephenson, had wrought this miracle.13 While
                    flying over the country in this amazed state of mind Tadcaster was called. Could this be the place
                    where I had lived ten years? Where I had suffered so many heartaches, and where as a boy had shed so
                    many tears …? Where the grand possibilities of public life first dawned upon me like a
                    rift in the clouds, opening a bright perspective in the distant future and then closing forever.
                    Rapidly as thoughts flash through the mind, I had hardly a moment to think before Walton was called, and I was landed at the station about half a mile from the village. I
                    walked down the lane, every turn and gate of which I knew. I was fortunately alone. I went into the
                    wicket orchard gate, through which I had passed with a bursting, aching heart eighteen years before.
                    How the concentrated, inexpressible bitterness of the moment came over my mind. I lingered in the
                    orchard, noted the 
                  
                     13 See note 4, p. 40 above.
               
                     growth of every tree. I missed many of the old patriarchs, pear,
                    apple and plum; I could not tell their names, but could point to the exact spot where they
                    grew…. How strange, though now so near my father, brother and sister, and longing to
                    grasp their hands and hold them to my heart, I yet dreaded the meeting. My brother' wife,
                    whom I had never seen, observing a stranger in the orchard, came down to see who it was, and finding
                    a rather outlandish looking fellow concluded that it must be her American brother-in-law. I found my
                    father, whom I had left a hale, hearty man, now infirm and entirely blind. Like the old patriarch
                    Jacob when Joseph was found, "he wept a long while" at the return of his son. He
                    had almost given up the hope of ever meeting me again in this world. My dear sister and myself could
                    only express our joy by having a good hearty cry in each other' arms. I found the village
                    very little changed. Only one new house had been built. For some time I seemed a "boy
                    again," and fairly reveled in enjoyment. I strolled through the green lanes where I had
                    tended the cows; I laid down upon the rich carpet of green grass and flowers and listened to the
                    skylark singing out of sight up in the clear blue sky. I went to the banks under the hedges where I
                    knew the violets and primroses used to grow in my father' fields, and there I found them
                    fresh and blooming, and fragrant as they were when I was a boy. I went to a place where I knew a
                    blackbird used to build her nest and found that the descendants of the birds that I had known had
                    not like me left the old favored locality. While rambling alone over the scenes of my boyhood and
                    youth, the time that I had been away seemed like a dream of the night. I could hardly realize that I
                    had a large business, a home, wife, family and friends in a foreign land. The villagers and my own
                    folds [sic] could not understand all this, and no doubt thought that I had become
                    a curious genius. After the excitement of my return had passed my father seemed, like old Semion
                        [Simeon?]14 to say - "Now let thy servant depart in
                    peace." And in a few weeks I closed his eyes and saw him laid in the old church yard by the
                    side of my dear mother, and the bones of his forefathers, to sleep until the morning of the
                    resurrection. I erected a monument to their memory, and was truly thankful that I had fulfilled my
                    promise and yielded to the impression so strongly made upon my mind to visit my father before he
                    died. My father died, as he had lived, at peace with God and all mankind….
            Though familiar to my boyhood and youth many things now appeared odd and strange. The variations and
                    oddity of the Yorkshire dialect, each town and village almost having its peculiarity. Then the
                    strange length of the days. I could read by daylight at near ten o'clock at night. While in
                    Leeds I had a little shopping to 
                  
                     14 This bracketed conjecture was transcribed from the typescript of
                            Smith' reminiscences.
               
                     do and went out at what seemed late in the afternoon, but I
                    found all the stores or shops closed. My first thought was that it must be some national holiday,
                    but I found that business had closed for the day, it being past eight o'clock….
            After visiting my numerous relatives I went up to 
                        London
                     and spent several weeks very pleasantly. I had seen Queen Victoria when a young
                    unmarried lady. The week before I started for America, she, with her mother, was attending the great
                    Musical Festival held in York Minster. Grisi, Braham, and all the great celebrities in music were
                        there.15 The first night I arrived in 
                        London
                     I went to the Opera at Drury Lane Theatre. The Queen was there and Grisi sang. I saw
                    the Queen several times afterwards, more especially upon a rather remarkable occasion at Windsor
                    Park. This was just before the great Crimean war, which was then threatening to break out every day.
                    Great preparations were being made by the Government and Nation to meet the shock. The Army and Navy
                    were being put upon a war footing; large bodies of troops were encamped and constantly drilled in
                    the Commons in the neighborhood of 
                        London
                    . Sham battles were sometimes had, but the occurrences of these were carefully kept from
                    the public, as too large crowds gathered to witness them…. The Queen was then a healthy,
                    matronly looking woman, not very tall nor yet, as some have said, dumpy. She
                    looked the good wife and mother that she proved to be. She was plainly dressed and had nothing to
                    distinguish her from any sensible lady in the crowd. She made a very favorable
                    impression on my mind….
            After visiting several other places of note in different parts of the Kingdom my thoughts began to
                    fly to what was now my home, and my face was once more turned to the Setting Sun….
            I now bid my early home another farewell; but how different was this to the first one! I now had a
                    loved home of my own in the far off West, and I knew that the loved ones there had long missed me
                    and were anxiously waiting for my return, so that instead of the dreadful heartsickness I had before
                    felt when passing out of the orchard gate my heart, though sad at the thought of parting with my
                    brother and sister probably for the last time upon earth, yet leaped with joy in the anticipation of
                    soon having my loved ones in my arms. Arriving in Liverpool I engaged a passage in the Cunard ship
                    America ….
            … After a pleasant voyage of twelve days we landed in 
                        Boston
                    .
            [Editor' note: After rendezvousing with Belvidere in 
                        Vermont
                     and visiting her family, Smith returns to his business in 
                        Madison
                    .]
            The growth of 
                        Madison
                     being stopped by several new railroads cutting off its best trade, many of its most
                    interesting citizens left 
                  
                     15 Giulia Grisi was a celebrated Italian soprano who lived from 1811
                            to 1869. She made annual tours of 
                                England
                             beginning in 1834 and lived much of the time in 
                                London
                            . John Braham was a renowned English tenor who lived from 1774 to 1856.
               
                     for more desirable localities. This caused great depreciation of
                    property and materially injured my future prospects. I had adopted the western plan in securing the
                    possession of considerable real estate, hoping that the town would continue to grow. Property began
                    to depreciate and trade to fall off. I began to cast about for a new locality. Some time before this
                    my brother-in-law Curtis had been called to the pastorate of the First Presbyterian Church of 
                        Chicago
                    . This was then the largest church in the city. As our families were closely connected,
                    he was very anxious for me to move there. Finding a favorable business opening, he pressed me to
                    take it. I went up there in company with my wife. I found every thing excited and inflated. The
                    opening was a promising one; but it was make or break. This was just before the war. The business
                    was selling leather, which was then higher than it had been for many years. I considered buying a
                    heavy stock at inflated prices a dangerous experiment, and so declined the partnership, and so
                    missed the fortune the man made that took my place….
            Soon after this I had a partnership offer from J. R. Osgood of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . I had known Mr. Osgood when he was traveling agent for a manufacturing company. While
                    a very earnest Christian man and a member of the Baptist church, he was a most excellent salesman
                    and was considered a very wide-awake, energetic business man. In connection with C. L. Crawford he
                    had started a factory for making lasts, pegs, etc. Crawford' uncle having died he was
                    obliged to take his place in 
                        Dayton
                    , leaving 
                        Osgood
                     alone. Wanting to visit our old English friends, Mr. and Mrs. Rockwood, my wife and I
                    went over to 
                        Indianapolis
                    .16 We found that Mr. Osgood was considered by his friends to be a
                    man that was making money very fast. He had built a new brick factory, put in a
                    new engine and machinery, and in addition to making lasts was doing quite an extensive business in
                    cutting staves and making flour barrels. He had likewise just made arrangements with L. M. Bugby to
                    make hubs of all kinds. Bugby was represented to be a man who understood making wagon and carriage
                    material in all its branches; that he had been a practical carriage maker and was
                    a fine mechanic well acquainted with machinery; then that he was a good Christian
                    man, a member of the Baptist church. On looking at the business I found that it yielded large profits and was capable of very great extension. The carriage material
                    business, since grown so large, was then in its infancy and I found that it only needed more capital 
                     
                        16 Of English descent William O. Rockwood and his wife, Helen Mar
                                Moore, had moved west from New 
                                    England
                                . After engaging in businesses in 
                                    Illinois
                                 and 
                                    Missouri
                                , Rockwood settled in 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, where evidently he met Smith. Later the Rockwoods lived in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 where he was involved in numerous businesses, especially the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Rolling-Mill of which he was director and treasurer. Berry R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and 
                                        Marion County
                                    , Indiana (
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1884), 472-73.
                  
                         and energy and good management to
                    make it very profitable. Osgood professed to have made $20,000.00, and offered me a half
                    interest for $10,000.00.I objected on account of my ignorance of the
                    business; not knowing the real value of what I was buying, etc. There was the great mistake that I
                    made in this transaction. This danger I clearly saw and felt at the time, but thinking Mr.
                    Osgood' character above suspicion, I had full confidence in his
                    truthfulness and honesty. He assured me that Bugby' experience and
                    capacity in the new business was beyond doubt, and that he owned a very valuable
                    patent right for morticing hubs. On account of Mr. Osgood' religious
                    character, as an active Christian man, more than for any thing else, my wife was anxious for me
                    to accept the offer. She hoped that I should be greatly benefited by his experience and influence,
                    and in this I most heartily joined her…. I accordingly sold my business in 
                        Madison
                     to Charlesworth, my foreman, and J. C. Smith, and made arrangements for moving to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This was in the spring of 1855. But houses being very scarce I was not able to move my
                    family until December. I parted with the home I had built and the many warm friends I had made in 
                        Madison
                    , with very great regret, on March 1, 1855.I now commenced a new era in my life with an
                    entire change in my circumstances and mode of life. I had before been doing business alone and in my own way, had been the architect of my own fortunes, but
                    now I found that I had to begin afresh, to learn a new business,—not a
                    very pleasant thing at my age of life. I had not been very long in the factory before I found that
                    "all is not gold that glitters," and that my ignorance and credulity had been imposed upon. The unpleasant truth began to be only too
                    clear that my partner had not given me a full and true statement of his affairs; that instead of
                    being as prosperous as I had been led to believe, they were in a very confused, involved, and in an
                    unsatisfactory condition; that he was fearfully in debt; that his credit was very
                    much impaired, and that his modes of doing business were loose and careless, all very different to
                    the way in which I had been used to do business. Then I found that the inventory he had made of the
                    property, machinery, and stock was in many cases a great over estimate of their
                    value, some things put in at considerable price that were of no value at all.
                    These very unpleasant discoveries showed me the mistakes I had made in giving up my experience and
                    judgment and putting implicit faith and confidence in another man. This was not a
                    happy time. I very reluctantly told my friend Osgood that I had been deceived, and was disappointed,
                    and as my family had not moved I wanted to withdraw. I had then only put in a few
                    thousand dollars. I had likewise received an offer from Joseph Hendricks to go into the wholesale
                    boot and shoe business in 
                        Madison
                    . Mr. Osgood was very much distressed by this proposition; told me, with tears in his
                    eyes, that this would utterly ruin him, and begged me to remain with him, offering
                    at the same  time to correct all overcharges in the inventory.
                    Knowing that this would perhaps seriously injure and perhaps ruin him, I consented to
                    remain…. I believed him to be sincere in his religion and yet he was in the habit of
                    doing things from which my sense of honor and right recoiled. He thought it right
                    to cover up and put imperfect and damaged articles in a bill of goods, giving as a reason that no
                    goods were expected to be perfect…. I found too, a most unfortunate
                    disposition of selfishness in our business matters. For many years I did the work of both partners.
                    After a little time I made myself acquainted with the mechanical portion of the business and took
                    the entire care and responsibility, which heavy burden I carried for many years…. I hope,
                    however, though I got very little good from him, he perhaps received some from me. His ideas were
                    considerably modified upon these subjects before he died….
            The first twelve years of my life at 
                        Indianapolis
                     were years of disappointment, trouble and sorrow. Knowing that the last making business
                    was not capable of much more extension and that the carriage material business was, I determined to
                    push that as much as possible. But after expending a great deal of money in
                    getting up machinery, buying material, and getting the business under way, I found that I had been
                    again deceived; that Bugby, the man that had been so highly endorsed and
                    recommended by my partner, was a deception and a fraud. He had never been a
                    carriage maker and knew no more of the business than I did. He was as ignorant as a dolt and yet
                    would not acknowledge it. He had spent several thousand dollars of my hard earned money in
                    blundering experiments before I found out. I was unwilling to disbelieve the character 
                        Osgood
                     had given him and was very nearly ruined by his blundering stupidity. I knew how
                    important it was, when starting a new business, to begin aright, or disaster and
                    ruin would be the result. I found the goods we had made were not adapted to the
                    market and were of a very inferior quality, and my bright partner did not know
                        it…. During this time I traversed the country all around in search of timber and
                    material, and then canvassed almost every town in the Western states to introduce and sell the
                    manufactured articles. This being then a new business it was not always an easy task. In many of the
                    principal towns in 
                        Illinois
                     I was the first to introduce the trade, though since that time an immense business has
                    been done in this class of goods. By this constant perserverance [sic], and continued efforts to
                    overcome the difficulties, we kept our business going and gradually extending and
                    growing…. At that time [1864] a great misfortune befell us. Our factory, with all the
                    machinery, was burnt down to the ground. The earnings of several years was lost in a night. My good
                    natured partner, who always attended to our insurance, had most unfortunately let a large portion of
                    it expire the week before the fire. Our friends, however, rallied around us and furnished what money
                    we needed….
            
            My health for several years was very poor. I suffered very much from dyspepsia. Then I had some very
                    severe attacks of bilious colic, cramps of the stomach, and other troubles. This was during the war,
                    and was truly a gloomy time; the future was dark and uncertain. A greater trouble, however, now
                    began to throw its shadow over me. The health of my dear wife began to fail and gradually give
                    way….
            In the year [1865] another important change took place in our business. Woodburn and Scott had for
                    some time been our Western competitors in the carriage material business. They had a large factory
                    and were doing an extensive business in 
                        St. Louis
                    . I had known Woodburn as a young machinist coming out to the West without money,
                    locating in 
                        St. Louis
                     and by industry and perserverance building up a large and profitable
                    business…. We were filling a large contract which they had given to us, for Government
                    spokes, when their factory burnt down to the ground with all the machinery and stock. About a year
                    before this, in connection with the 
                        New Haven
                     Wheel Co., they had taken an exclusive license for making the since celebrated
                    "Sarven Wheel," then unknown. They had then, however, made enough to prove its
                    superiority over all other wheels, and succeeded in convincing all the carriage makers in 
                        St. Louis
                    , and some other places, of that fact. During the war two or three steamboats, which
                    they owned, were pressed into Government service on the 
                        Mississippi
                     below Vicksburg. While attending to these matters just at the close of the war both the
                    partners thought they saw a great chance for speculation in buying up some Southern plantations and
                    showing the Southerners how to grow cotton. Just at this time I happened to be in 
                        St. Louis
                    . I ought to state that not having capital enough to rebuild a factory the size they
                    wished, they had tried to get up a joint stock company, but had failed. While settling our account
                    with them they made me a proposition to sell out their business, patent rights, stock and machinery,
                    and sign a contract that they would not engage in the same business in 
                        St. Louis
                     for five years. I knew that there was money in the thing. But it was a greater and
                    larger enterprise than I had yet undertaken. Nelson and Kayner [Hayner?]17 of
                    Alton, 
                        Illinois
                    , however, told me that they would join me in any favorable business enterprise. I
                    accordingly brought the matter before them and they thought so favorably of it that we arranged to
                    form a partnership, they joining us as third partners. We accordingly paid Woodburn and Scott
                    $40,000.00, which bought their entire interest. In all this matter my partner, 
                        Osgood
                    , was a mere cypher, though he had the same interest as myself….
            
               
                  17 This material is transcribed exactly as it is in the typescript of
                        Smith' reminiscences.
            
            
            In a short time we had a very large establishment. We rebuilt and enlarged the 
                        Indianapolis
                     factory until we worked 400 men. We had a factory and a large store and a warehouse in 
                        St. Louis
                    ; then we had a controlling interest in a factory at Metropolis upon the 
                        Ohio
                     river in 
                        Illinois
                    . Then we had two mills getting out timber. In these various factories and mills we
                    worked near six hundred men. I found this a very hard life, more especially as my dear wife was now
                    a constant care and source of anxiety. On looking back to those days I often wonder how I passed
                    through them. My wife' disease being confirmed asthma she suffered dreadfully during the
                    night. For some time before her death she was not able to sleep in bed. When the paroxysms would
                    come on, which they often do several times during the night, I would get up and fumigate the room
                    with saltpetre, and other things, to give her relief. During the two or three years before her death
                    I had, when with her, been up more or less every night.
            [Editor' note: Here Smith recounts the death of his wife from a long
                    struggle with asthma (the details of which are on the missing page of the surviving document) and
                    his marriage to Lizzie Sinclair, a girl whose father was an alcoholic and who had lived with the
                    Smiths for years as a virtual family member. Smith was much older than Lizzie and acknowledges the
                    "delicacy" of the new relationship. As husband and wife they had one child. The
                    narrative resumes with the conclusion of Smith' story.]
            In the year [1871] my partner, Osgood, died. His death was sudden and unexpected both by himself and
                    his friends. This event made quite a change in the character of our business at the factory.
                    Although for many years Mr. Osgood had taken very little part in the active work and business of the
                    firm, he at the same time enabled me to hold my other impulsive, erratic partner in check. On this
                    account his loss was a serious misfortune. I now found it very difficult to do business with
                    Woodburn, either with comfort or self-respect. His egotism made him envious and jealous and thus
                    destroyed that oneness and unity of action and purpose that is so essential to success in
                    business…. And our business suffered in consequence of it. It was now very much extended.
                    We had added a store in 
                        New York
                     to our liabilities. Our expenses were enormous. We were in debt $225,000.00
                    and Woodburn insisted upon borrowing $25,000.00 more….
            In the early part of 1873 our factory was again partially burned down. This was a very serious
                    misfortune…. Our insurance would cover the greater part of our loss, and the money we
                    obtained from it paid off some of our most pressing debts. But I saw very little chance of doing any
                    better with my intractable partner, and determined if possible to sell out my interest. I saw that
                    an arrangement could be made by my sacrificing from $10,000.00 to $20,000.00,
                    by which Julius Pratt, and of course my daughter, would be benefited to perhaps a larger amount than
                    that. And that arrangement could  be made so as to prevent
                    Woodburn from injuring the business. And so sacrificing a large amount of money which I had worked
                    hard for many years, I sold out my entire interest for $58,000.00, which will by care and
                    economy be just a competence for me in my old age. I have now a good comfortable home and settled
                    down for life a great deal better than I expected that I should ever be able to do….
            
                    Epilogue
                
            Smith ends his autobiography with reflections on various religious topics and references to his
                    declining health. By 1875 he was suffering from dyspepsia and severe indigestion and probably from
                    his doctor' recommended treatment—a "pounding" of his stomach
                    and bowels every morning. But after a bout with rheumatism and an operation on his urethra, he was
                    able to make another visit to Europe with the intention of improving his health and seeing Walton
                    one last time. He also made a trip to 
                        California
                     for health reasons. After a few more years of declining health, Samuel Fowler Smith
                    died on March 12, 1879, at age seventy and was buried next to Judson Osgood in Crown
                    Hill Cemetery. His rather simple obituary in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers is explained by the fact that Smith had been for about eight years retired
                    from business life and was thus less active in business and community affairs. He was remembered as
                    "a thoroughly honest and estimable citizen and conscientious rnan."18
            
            Smith probably would have been pleased with this simple epitaph. Through his journey from humble
                    surroundings in Walton to wealth and success in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he had maintained a deep faith in God and a love and appreciation for his native
                    village. It seems likely that among Smith' final thoughts before he died were recollections
                    of his life in 
                        England
                     and some of the pleasant images that he had recorded in his autobiography. Apparently
                    he had made arrangements in his will to make some gesture of gratitude to his native village, for
                    today in St. Peter' Church is a brass lectern with the simple inscription, "In
                    Memory of Samuel Fowler Smith."
            
               
                  18
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        People, March 15, 1879. The 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal of March 15 records Smith' last will and the division of his
                        property among his wife and children. Smith' character and devotion to charities is
                        also recorded in The Second Presbyterian Church of 
                                Indianapolis
                            : One Hundred Years, 1838-1938 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1939), 141-42.
            
         
         
         
            The Monster Meetings at the Negro YMCA in 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            
                    Stanley 
                            Warren
                        
                  *
               
                
            In today' political, social, and economic arena remembering segregation in negative terms
                    seems both logical and natural. However, the necessity of finding a way to survive within a limiting
                    system driven by segregationist tendencies has been the base from which many great African-American
                    traditions and organizations have begun. One such organization was a branch of the Young
                    Men' Christian Association. In 1900 the formation of a Young Men' Prayer Band
                    presaged the birth of the Negro YMCA in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and led to the inception of an incredible social, civic, and educational institution.
            In 1905, shortly after the state YMCA officially recognized the Prayer Band, members initiated a
                    series of public forums, headlined for the first ten years by local religious, business, and
                    political figures. The forums, commonly known as Monster Meetings, eventually showcased almost every
                    black leader in the country and provided a means for bringing national issues to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     area. Rebuffed by his superiors when he requested permission to call the forums
                    "The Big Meeting"—that name, it seems, was being used by the statewide
                    YMCA organization for its own meetings—Executive Secretary Thomas E. Taylor, playing the
                    game of one-upsmanship, suggested "monster" as an alternative to
                        "big."1 In retrospect, the unusual name choice was
                    fortuitous.
            Soon after the colored YMCA became a fully approved entity, the push for a new building began. Word
                    about the creation of the new YMCA branch had spread throughout the 
                        United States
                    . Early on, Booker T. Washington declared support for the fledgling effort. In January
                    of 1906 he committed himself to a fund-raising speaking engagement for March of the same year.2 Also involved in the fund-raising effort was Julius Rosenwald, Sears, Roebuck
                    and Company executive and philanthropist, who offered a one-for-three 
                  
                     * Stanley 
                                Warren
                             is retired dean of academic affairs and professor of education, DePauw
                            University, 
                                Greencastle
                            , Indiana. Currently, he is treasurer of the Indiana Historical Society and
                            member of the State Student Assistance Commission.
                  
                     1 Bertram E. Gardner, "The Negro Men' Christian
                            Association in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Community" (Master' thesis, 
                                Butler
                             University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1951), 50.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, January 27, 1906.
               
                    
                    
                  SENATE AVENUE YOUNG MEN' CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION DEDICATION, INDIANAPOLIS, JULY, 1913
                  FROM LEFT: GEORGE KNOX, MADAM C. J. WALKER, FREEMAN B. RANSOM, BOOKER T. WASHINGTON, ALEXANDER MANNING, DR. JOSEPH WARD, R. W. BULLOCK, THOMAS E. TAYLOR.
                  Madam C. J. Walker Collection, Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  Neg no. C2137.
                match calling for his $25,000 to be joined with $75,000 from the
                    local community. The pledges were raised in ten days with the "white" team raising
                    $59,000 and the "colored" team, $20,100.3 The news of this astounding success spread very rapidly, particularly through the churches
                    and other YMCA branches. At the forefront of citizen participation in the fund-raising effort was
                    Madam C. J. Walker, who gave $1,000.4 Fittingly, the Senate Avenue
                    YMCA building was dedicated by Washington in July, 1913. In appreciation the branch raised
                    $3,000 for a memorial fund at Tuskegee Institute in 
                        Washington
                    ' name.5
            
            
               
                  3 George E. Mercer, One Hundred Years of Service, 1854-1954:
                            A History of the Young Men' Christian Association of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   {
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1954}, 85.
               
                  4 Madam C. J. Walker became one of the wealthiest black women in America
                        because of her innovations in cosmetic and hair preparation formulas for black women. Her will
                        stipulated that two-thirds of the profits from her company should go to charitable
                        organizations. Walker' penchant for supporting civic efforts in the black community was
                        recently evidenced by a July, 1993, gift of $7,500 to the 
                            Indianapolis
                            Fall Creek
                         YMCA from the remainder of the Madam Walker Trust Fund. Ralph Christian, executive
                        secretary of the 
                            Fall Creek
                         YMCA, conversation with author.
               
                  5 Mercer, One Hundred Years of Service, 86.
            
            
            
               SENATE AVENUE YMCA
               Fall Creek Young Men' Christian Association, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            Faburn E. DeFrantz, more than anyone else, has been credited for the extraordinary political and
                    social awareness and the phenomenal growth of the Negro YMCA in the Hoosier capital. He came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     as physical director of the Senate Avenue YMCA in 1913. Three years later he was
                    appointed the first black executive secretary. From 1916 until his retirement in 1952, membership in
                    the Senate Avenue branch grew from 350 to 5,270. DeFrantz believed that members of the black YMCA
                    must "go forth into battle against the evil forces which were impeding the progress of the
                    Kingdom of God and the Brotherhood of Man." It was this challenge that provided the impetus
                    for the growth of the Monster Meeting concept into the largest and most prestigious public forum in
                    the country.6
            
            With DeFrantz' encouragement and leadership the Monster Meetings served as focal points for
                    protest and constituent education. 
                  
                     6 Gardner, "The Negro Men' Christian Association in
                            the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Community," 55; quotation from "The Monster
                            Meetings," People Are Our Business: 50th Year of Community Service,
                                1900-1950. pub. Senate Avenue Branch YMCA (
                                Indianapolis
                            , n.d.), 20.
               
                    
                    
                  FABURN E. DEFRANTZ
                  
                  Faburn E DeFrantz. Jr.
                As an arm of the Monster Meetings, the Citizen' Committee of One Hundred, with
                    its very active subcommittees, scrutinized pending legislation and other city and state activities
                    that were likely to have a negative impact on housing, education, and employment in the black
                        community.7 Further, the Monster Meetings played a central role in
                    galvanizing the community around such important issues as the relaxation of racial restrictions at
                    Indiana University, the opening of downtown theaters to blacks, the integration of the Indiana High
                    School Athletic Association, preparation of the Anti-Hate Bill that became law in 1947, employment
                    of 
                  
                     7 Gardner, "The Negro Men' Christian Association in
                            the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Community," 54.
               
                     blacks in the city administrations, and preparation of the
                    Anti-Segregation Bill that became law in 1949. Each of these issues was discussed in open forums and
                    reported on by knowledgeable, interested individuals and the appropriate committees.8 Committee reports were often made directly to the Monster Meeting audiences with the
                    confidence that every organization interested in matters affecting the race was represented there.
            Shortly after the beginning of the DeFrantz era of leadership, the Monster Meetings took on a
                    national flavor with more than a hint of radicalism. In the words of the executive secretary:
                    "They say that DeFrantz is too aggressive, but as long as I stay in this town I shall see
                    to it that the Negro is in the picture of what is going on."9
                    Representatives of local and state organizations continued to receive invitations to speak, but
                    nationally known figures at the Monster Meeting rostrum became commonplace. As the popularity and
                    importance of these mass education meetings grew, both the public and YMCA members exhibited a
                    higher level of community activism. The meetings were used to showcase young men of talent, to
                    provide financial support to promising youth, to further political education, to pay tribute to the
                    achievements of great men from around the country, and to provide a platform for discussions about
                    national, state, and local issues. The roll call of speakers is an indication of the significance of
                    the programs.
            In general, both the Monster Meeting speakers and the audiences were black, but there were many
                    exceptions. At various times mayors, governors, and legislators, all of whom were white, shared
                    their views with and answered the questions of the Monster Meeting participants. Occasionally,
                    speakers requested that their meetings be opened to women and, sometimes, to children.10 In a few instances women were invited to be Monster Meeting speakers. Marjorie Penny,
                    director of Fellowship House in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , appeared in 1953, as did Eleanor Roosevelt; and Irene M. Gaines, president of the
                    National Association of Colored Women' Clubs, spoke in 1955.
            Because local hotels were not open to black travelers, an informal gathering for
                    "insiders" at the home of "Chief" DeFrantz or one of the other
                    important individuals generally followed the Monster Meetings themselves. If the speaker was from
                    another city, often he spent the weekend at the home of DeFrantz, attorney Henry J. Richardson, or
                    Freeman B. Ransom, attorney and manager of the Madam C. J. Walker Company, and on Monday addressed
                    the Monday 
                  
                     8
                            The Y' Man, November 21, 1931.
                  
                     9 Faburn E. DeFrantz obituary, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, September 25, 1964.
                  
                     10 Organized originally to fulfill the evangelistic purpose of the
                            YMCA, the Monster Meetings were, technically, exclusively for men. According to all
                            indications, however, women were involved in the meetings from the beginning, either as
                            members of the audiences or as participants in the celebrations surrounding the events.
                            "The Monster Meetings," 20-21.
               
                     Luncheon Club at the Coffee Pot restaurant in the Walker
                    Building. In some instances on Monday following the Sunday Monster Meeting, the guest, sponsored by
                    the Phyllis Wheatley YWCA, spoke at a tea in the Crispus Attucks High School cafeteria.11
            
            The season for the Monster Meeting series ran from November to March. When the public forums began in
                    1905, organizers attempted to have several speakers each month. Weekly Sunday forums during some
                    months caused great concern about financial matters as well as about the quality of the meetings. In
                    April, 1953, the Monster Meeting Planning Committee decided to reduce the number of sessions during
                    the 1953-1954 season to ten or twelve with emphasis on significant, well-known individuals. At that
                    time there was a $273 deficit in the Monster Meeting budget.12
            
            An analysis of the origins and development of the Monster Meetings provides significant information
                    concerning the Senate Avenue YMCA itself. An extremely family-oriented organization, the YMCA
                    instituted a Monster Meeting for children in 1927. Professional and business leaders spoke to the
                    Sunday afternoon sessions, which followed much the same format as the adult forums. The success of
                    the Negro YMCA under DeFrantz' leadership also spawned a movement to create a YWCA based on
                    many of the same tenets as the men' organization. Strong support came from YMCA members. In
                    1927 Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Brokenburr donated $1,000 to the YWCA building fund drive and
                    Mr. and Mrs. Freeman B. Ransom donated $1,100. When asked why he and his wife had been so
                    generous, Ransom answered: "My wife and I gave $1,100.00 to the YWCA building
                    fund because we felt the Association' appeal was a direct challenge to our Christianity,
                    and a test as to our interest in the women and girls of the YWCA. We felt that we could not afford
                    to give more, and we were dead sure we could not afford to give less."13
            
            Long an advocate of racial integration, DeFrantz also created an annual Emblem Club Racial Amity
                    award to be presented by the Senate Avenue YMCA to the white man in the state who had done the most
                    for Negroes during the year. Recipients of the awards from 1947 until DeFrantz' retirement
                    in 1952 were:
            
               
                  11 Willard B. Ransom, son of Freeman B. Ransom, and Faburn B. DeFrantz,
                        Jr., conversations with author. Wallace Waugh or his successor, Dr. Benjamin Osborne, chaired
                        the meetings of the Monday Luncheon Club for many of the years under discussion. Founded in 1927
                        as a result of pressure to separate the races in the 
                            Indianapolis
                         schools, Crispus Attucks High School consolidated the enrollment of all of the
                        city' black high school students at one location.
               
                  12
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, April 4, 1953. Other meetings with goals similar to those of the
                        Monster Meetings were held at various times during the year: The Salons, Intercollegiate Club,
                        Open Meetings, etc.
               
                  13 "Reflections of Eight Decades: History of 
                            Indianapolis
                         Alumni Chapter Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc.," 44, undated manuscript
                        (Kappa Alpha Psi, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
            
            
            1947 Edward Snyder, editor, Gary Post Tribune
            1948 Herman B Wells, president, Indiana University
            1949 William Butcher (Republican, 
                        South Bend
                    ) and Leo J. Stemle (Democrat, 
                        Jasper
                    ), Indiana legislators
            1950 Merrill B. McFall, pastor, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, First Methodist Church
            1951 Jimmie Angelopolous, sports editor, 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Times
               14
            
            A close examination of the list of Monster Meeting speakers and their backgrounds provides further
                    reasons to reappraise the dynamics of the Negro YMCA prior to the 1970s. Perusing such a list out of
                    context, one would never guess that in all of Indiana and the Midwest during the relevant decades,
                    racial exclusion rather than inclusion was the order of the day. The many appearances of Howard E.
                    Jensen, professor at 
                        Butler
                     University, as speaker at the Sunday afternoon forums underline the apparent
                    inconsistencies in segregationist policies. Although several Senate Avenue "Y"
                    boys attended 
                        Butler
                    , it was common knowledge that, unlike today, the number of black students allowed on
                    campus at any one time was limited. Ironically, Jensen' favorite topic, social equality,
                    often included discussions about the 
                        Butler
                     enrollment issue.15
            
            Even the segregation of public facilities in Indianapolis was inconsistently applied. The Monster
                    Meetings often brought such important speakers to the city that the limited seating capacity at the
                    Senate Avenue YMCA was insufficient. In 1953 Eleanor Roosevelt spoke, without incident, to an
                    unsegregated audience at the Murat Temple rather than at the YMCA.16 In 1958
                    Martin Luther King, Jr., made a trip to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to address a Monster Meeting forum. Approximately 1,100 people listened to his speech
                    in the Cadle Tabernacle, a frequent site of Crispus Attucks High School graduation ceremonies.17
            
            The climate of cooperation, achievement, and pride that was created by the Monster Meetings affected
                    many people and organizations in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     community. There was a tremendous amount of crossover between black churches and black
                    civic and 
                  
                     14 Mercer, One Hundred Years of Service, 88-89.
                  
                     15 "Dr. Howard E. Jensen To Speak Next Sunday At The Monster
                            Meeting," The Ys Man, December 3, November 19, 1927, January 14,
                            February 4, March 17, 1928.
                  
                     16
                            The Ys Man, December 12, 1953. The Murat Temple, an ornate structure of
                            Middle Eastern and Egyptian design, was built in 1909 as the home for the Ancient Arabic
                            Order Nobles of the Mystic Shrine. Later, the building became part of the Shubert Theatre
                            chain. Today it exists primarily as a rental hall in which as many as two hundred events are
                            held yearly.
                  
                     17
                            The Ys Man, December 18, 1958. Like the Murat the Cadle Tabernacle was
                            long a significant symbol in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             community and a favorite site for large meetings. With its sizeable auditorium,
                            Cadle was in general used by religious, educational, and political groups. Purchased by the
                            Indiana National Bank in 1968, it was subsequently razed. Prior to the 1924 election the
                            tabernacle was, ironically, the center of Ku Klux Klan activity in the area.
               
                     social organizations in the Hoosier capital. Segregation
                    relegated black citizens to a relatively small world in which lawyers and truck drivers had a great
                    deal in common and often found themselves in each other' company. In the words of Dr.
                    Mordecai Johnson, long-time president of Howard University: "The redcap and the lawyer, the
                    laborer and the doctor, seek together to find answers to social and political questions …
                    herein is the very genius of Christianity."18 A classic example of the
                    full measure of this concept was found in the bylaws of the El Amigo Club, a social club with a
                    traditional sense of civic pride. A requirement for membership in the El Amigos carried a
                    stipulation that new members would also join the YMCA. As part of their community responsibility, El
                    Amigo members acted as ushers at Monster Meeting.19
            
            Cooperation extended to other organizations as well. The Intercollegiate Club, composed of local
                    college students, had fully integrated branches around the city. In September, 1927, the Senate
                    Avenue YMCA sponsored a dinner and smoker for all male teachers in the city schools, and by 1931 all
                    men on the staff of Crispus Attucks High School were members of the YMCA." Consequently,
                    the school facilities were often used to support the activities of the YMCA, the Intercollegiate
                    Club, the YWCA, and the Monday Luncheon Club. Over the years the faculty of Crispus Attucks and the
                    YMCA presented a united front in attempts to persuade the central school administration to improve
                    both academic and athletic facilities at the school.
            It was, no doubt, this quality of experience for those involved that helped to balance life in
                    segregated 
                        Indianapolis
                    , particularly during the 1930s, 1940s, and 1950s. It is not unusual to hear black
                    senior citizens speak fondly of that time in their lives in spite of the pressure from local civic
                    organizations, city officials, and state legislators to create racially separate institutions in
                    Indiana. It was, for those who embraced the Monster Meeting concept, a time of foundation building
                    for the changes that were to take place in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. Johnson captured the spirit
                    of the DeFrantz era when he stated: "we must work as hard for integration as if it could
                    come tomorrow; yet, at the same time, be as efficient in our segregated positions as if they were to
                    be maintained forever …."21
            
            Throughout the 1950s the Sunset Terrace Ballroom in its advertisements claimed to be located at the
                    heart of the colored 
                  
                     18 Faburn E. DeFrantz, "Autobiography," 52. The
                            unpublished autobiography is in the possession of Faburn E. DeFrantz, Jr.
                  
                     19 Gardner, "The Negro Men' Christian Association in
                            the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Community," 55.
                  
                     20
                            The Y' Man, September 24, 1927, September 19, 1931. Several of
                            the unmarried male teachers lived at the YMCA.
                  
                     21 DeFrantz, "Autobiography," 57.
               
                     population in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Indeed, thirty thousand Negroes lived within a radius of ten city blocks of the
                    ballroom' Indiana Avenue location. The compact nature of the black residential areas in the
                    Hoosier capital, imposed in part by the racism and segregationist tendencies of the day, helped
                    sustain activities at the Negro YMCA and other Negro institutions. Within this ten-mile radius there
                    were Negro churches, theaters, and restaurants as well as Crispus Attucks High School, the Phyllis
                    Wheatley YWCA, and the Senate Avenue YMCA. With the onset of integration in housing and employment,
                    blacks began pushing north and east out of the area centered around Indiana Avenue. Perhaps there is
                    no direct correlation between changes in residential and commercial patterns in the Negro community
                    and the loss of support for programs at the Senate Avenue YMCA and its successor, the 
                        Fall Creek
                     YMCA. The evidence strongly suggests, however, that integration, though a sign of
                    progress, contributed significantly to the end of support for the Monster Meetings.
            The Monster Meeting concept, with a local, religious slant, began shortly after the Prayer Band
                    became a full-fledged branch of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     YMCA in 1905. However, the crystallization of the meetings into a public forum for
                    local issues with a national connection seemed to coincide with the tradition of having Johnson as
                    the series-opening speaker each November. With one exception the Howard University president
                    performed this function every year for more than forty years. The following schedule of Monster
                    Meeting programs, though incomplete, provides significant information concerning the dynamics of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Negro YMCA prior to the 1970s. Appropriately, the first meeting on the list coincides
                    with the beginning of Johnson' presidency at Howard.
            
            Monster Meeting Speakers 1926-1963*
            
            
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/13/26) "Religion or Christianity" [Johnson had just
                        become first Negro president of Howard University, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.]
               Alain L. Locke (11/28/26) [Professor of philosophy and religion, Howard University]
               Dr. Max Yergan (12/5/26) [Author; expert on African issues]
               Countee Cullen (2/25/27) [Poet. Meeting held at Caleb Mills Hall, Shortridge High School, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]
               Ralph Metcalf (11/5/27) [Record-holding track star]
               John W. Russell and F. Caldwell (?/?/27) [Gary, Indiana, attorneys who fought against
                        segregated school movement]
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/13/27)
               Dr. E. W. Moore (11/17/27) "The Second Emancipation of the Negro" [Regional
                        director of education and missionary work of Northern Baptists]
               Dr. Howard E. Jensen (11/19/27) Question and answer session Questions to be answered: (1) Is
                        the limitation of the number of Negro students to be admitted to 
                            Butler
                         University right? (2) Is it Christian? (3) Is it American? [Sociology professor,
                        Butler University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; on program for preceding eight years]
               Alain L. Locke (11/26/27) "Shall We Live in the World or a Ghetto?" [Tea and
                        reception at Crispus Attucks High School on the following Monday; spoke on "The Negro
                        in Drama in America"]
               Rev. S. H. Sweeney (12/3/27) "The New Negro' Religion" [Presiding
                        elder, 
                            Lexington
                         Conference of the Methodist church]
               Dr. John Hope (12/10/27) "Some Recent Gains along the Color Line"
                        [President, Morehouse College, 
                     Atlanta, Georgia
                  ]
               George W. Cable (12/17/27) "
                            Egypt
                        " [Novelist; women invited]
               George S. Schuyler (1/7/28) "The Negro' Next Step" [Managing
                        editor, The Messenger]
               Dr. Howard E. Jensen (1/15/28) Question and answer session
               L. Ert Slack (1/21/28) "Good Citizenship" [Mayor of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ] 
                     
                        * Information about Monster Meetings was compiled from
                                copies of The Y' Man and the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Star and from conversations with Willard B. Ransom, Faburn B.
                                DeFrantz, Jr., and Ralph Christian, current executive secretary of the 
                                    Fall Creek
                                 YMCA. Dates are accurate to the week rather than the day, and some speech
                                titles are missing because of the unavailability of data.
                  
               
               
               Chandler Owen (1/28/28) "A Negro in Congress Now" [Coeditor, The Messenger]
               Dr. Howard E. Jensen (2/4/28) "Social Equality"
               Alain L. Locke (2/12/28) "Some Recent Gains in Race Relations" [Interracial
                        Sunday observance at Robert' Park Methodist Episcopal Church]
               Rev. Robert L. (Fighting Bob) Bradby (2/18/28) "Attitudes" [Pastor, Second
                        Baptist Church, 
                     Detroit, Michigan
                  ]
               Rabbi Morris M. Fuerlicht (2/25/28) "Some Human Aspects of Religion" [Rabbi, 
                            Indianapolis
                         Hebrew Congregation; fifteenth year on program]
               Freeman B. Ransom (3/10/28) "The Y.M.C.A. and the Church" [Attorney and
                        manager of the Madam C. J. Walker Company; tenth year on the program; chair of Committee on
                        Management of YMCA]
               "My Solution to the Race Problem" (3/17/28) Two perspectives: A. H. Maloney
                        (black) "If I Were a White Man" Howard E. Jensen (white) "If I Were a
                        Black Man" [Maloney was a graduate student in pharmacology at the University of
                                
                     Wisconsin, Madison
                  .]
               Dr. T. F. Reavis (11/10/28) "Danger Signals Ahead" [Successor to Jensen as
                        professor of sociology, 
                            Butler
                         University]
               Walter White (11/24/28) "The Color Question As a World Problem" [Assistant
                        secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; had investigated
                        forty-one lynchings and eight race riots]
               Alain L. Locke (12/1/28) "What about the Future?"
               Howard Thurman (12/8/28) [Professor of Biblical history, Morehouse College;
                        protégé of Mordecai W. Johnson]
               George W. Cable (12/15/28) "John Brown" [Fourth appearance]
               Bishop Garfield T. Haywood (1/6/29) "Out of 
                            Egypt
                        " [Bishop of the Pentecostal Assemblies of the World and pastor of Christ
                        Temple Church of the Pentecostal Assemblies of the World, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]
               Robert L. Bradby (1/13/29)
               L. Ert Slack (1/19/29) "Public Opinion"
               Akintunde Dipeolu (1/26/29) "Creative Forces in the New Africa" [Nigerian
                        graduate student at the University of 
                            Chicago
                         Theological Seminary]
               Rev. Murray S. Kenworthy (2/2/29) "Racial Contributions to Civilization"
                        [Regional Secretary, American Friends Service]
               Freeman B. Ransom (2/16/29) "Watchman, What of the Night?" [Testimonial
                        dinner for Ransom]
               
               William Pickens (3/2/29) "Economic Interpretations of the Race Problems"
                        [Field secretary, NAACP, national office]
               Harry G. Leslie (3/16/29) "The Responsibilities of Citizenship" [Governor of
                        Indiana]
               Rt. Rev. Archibald Carey (3/23/29) [Bishop of the Fourth Episcopal District of 
                            Chicago
                         and member of the Civil Service Commission of 
                            Chicago
                        ]
               Dr. Channing H. Tobias (3/30/29) "Give the Boys a Chance" [Senior secretary
                        of the Colored Men' Department of the National Council of the YMCA; Thomas E. Taylor
                        Memorial Sunday. Taylor was the third executive secretary of the Senate Avenue YMCA.]
               Judge William H. Harrison (11/9/29) "Building a Man" [Member of the Pardon
                        and Parole Board of 
                            Illinois
                         and former assistant attorney general of 
                            Illinois
                        ]
               Boyd Gurley (11/23/29) "On Top of the World" [Editor, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Times]
               Alain L. Locke (11/30/29) "Which Way Out: Economic, Political, or Cultural?"
               Dr. Harry O. Pritchard (12/7/29) "Education and Democracy" [Secretary of the
                        Board of Education of the Church of Christ]
               Robert Abbott (1/4/30) "Fight against Discrimination in 
                            London
                         Hotels" [title paraphrased] [Owner and publisher of the 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Defender]
               Roscoe Gilmore Stott (1/11/30) "Dying on Third" [Writer, lecturer,
                        impersonator]
               Akintunde Dipeolu (1/18/30) "Black and White in 
                            South Africa
                        "
               George S. Schuyler (1/25/30) "What' to Become of the Negro?" [Chief
                        editorial writer for the 
                            Pittsburgh
                         Courier and columnist for Views and Race]
               Rabbi Morris M. Feurlicht (2/1/30) "Bending Backwards"
               Dr. W. A. C. Hughes (2/15/30) "A Man' Measure" [National director
                        of Negro work for the Methodist Episcopal church]
               Ray D. Everson (2/22/30) "Donny' Prayer" [Managing editor, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News; open meeting]
               Freeman B. Ransom (3/1/30) "Unemployment and How to Solve It"
               Bishop Edgar Blake (3/8/30) "The Good Samaritan"
                        [Bishop of the 
                            Indianapolis
                        -area Methodist Episcopal church]
               Rev. James Claire Taylor (3/15/30) "The Issues of Life" [African Methodist
                        Episcopal Zion church, 
                     Rochester, New York
                  ]
               Rev. Elmer G. Homrighausen (3/22/30) "The Meaning of Jesus for Today'
                        Problems" [Pastor of the Carrollton Avenue Reformed Church; open meeting]
               
               Bruce "Shorty" Morrison (3/29/30) "Playing the Game"
                        [Director of physical activities, George 
                            Washington
                         High School, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]
               Roscoe Gilmore Stott (11/8/30) "A Man-sized Job"
               Senator Arthur R. Robinson (11/22/30) "Citizenship and the Constitution" [
                            United States
                         senator from Indiana; opposed Judge John J. Parker' Supreme Court
                        nomination. Parker' open opposition to Negro participation in the political process
                        caused his nomination by President Herbert Hoover to be rejected by the 
                            United States
                         Senate.]
               Rev. M. W. Clair (11/29/30) "The Meaning of God in Human Experience"
                        [Pastor, Simpson AME Church, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]
               Louis Gregory (12/6/30) "How to Remove Prejudice" [The only Negro lecturer
                        for the Bahai movement]
               Bishop Garfield T. Haywood (12/13/30) "The Message of Christ"
               A. H. Maloney (1/3/31) "Science in Religion"
               Leila A. Rothenburger (1/10/31) "America' Most Courageous Women"
                        [Possibly the first woman speaker; wife of the Reverend William F. Rothenburger, pastor of the
                        Third Christian Church, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]
               Dr. Frederick D. Kershner (1/17/31) "God, Prayer, and Immortality" [Dean of
                        the College of Religion, 
                            Butler
                         University]
               Merle Sidner (1/31/31) "What Are You Building" [President of Sidner, 
                            Van
                         Riper, & Keeling Advertisers; former editor, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star; school board member]
               William Pickens (2/14/31) "Frederick Douglass: The Spirit of Freedom"
               "Prohibition: Shall Indiana Stay Dry?" (2/21/31) Debate Rev. C. H. Winders:
                        Yes Boyd Gurley: No [Winders was former secretary of the Anti-Saloon League.]
               Akintunde Dipeolu (2/28/31) "
                            Liberia
                        , Slave or Free"
               Charles S. Johnson (3/7/31) "The Changing Economical Status of the Negro"
                        [Chair, Sociology Department, Fisk University, 
                     Nashville, Tennessee
                  ]
               Paul C. Stetson (3/14/31) "Character Education" [Superintendent of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Public Schools]
               Annual Medal Day (3/28/31) Medals presented by W. Blaine Patton, sports editor of the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star.
                        Honorees: Jack Mann 
                                Muncie
                             Central High School 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana
                        Dave DeJernette 
                                Washington
                             High School 
                                Washington
                            , Indiana
               
               
               Dr. Rufus E. Clement (11/15/31) "Finding the Way Out" [Dean of Municipal
                        College, 
                            Louisville
                        . For the first time in ten years the series was not opened by Mordecai W. Johnson.]
               James M. Ogden (11/21/31) "Vice and Crime: Its Cause and Cure" [Indiana
                        attorney general who had named black lawyer Robert L. Bailey as assistant attorney general in
                        October, 1931]
               John W. Davis (11/28/31) "Unemployment Problems" [President, West 
                            Virginia
                         State College, Institute, West 
                            Virginia
                        ]
               A. H. Worsham (12/5/31) "First-Hand Picture of What Is Happening in Russia"
                        [Engineer who helped build an automobile plant and city for 25,000 people in Russia]
               Dr. Lee Sadler (12/12/31) "Unconquered Frontiers" [Pastor, University Park
                        Christian Church, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]
               Elder Karl F. Smith (12/19/31) "The Measure of Man" [Secretary of the
                        Pentecostal Assemblies; speech was a memorial to Bishop Garfield T. Haywood.]
               Theodore Ward (1/2/32) Dramatic reading [Student at the University of 
                     Wisconsin, Madison
                  ]
               Rabbi Morris M. Feurlicht (1/9/32) "Economic and Spiritual Depression"
               Bert Essex (1/16/32) "Palestine, Cradle of Christianity" [Author]
               "The Way Out" (1/23/32) Forum John C. N. Bankett [Editor, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        World] James Hodge [President, Business Men' League] Pearl 
                            Hamilton
                         [President, Citizen' Employment League; campaigned to get white businesses
                        to hire "colored where patronage was largely "colored]
               Paul V. McNutt (1/30/32) "Americanism" [Dean of Indiana University Law
                        School; former commander of the American Legion]
               Dr. George Washington Carver (2/6/32) "Great Creator, What Is a Peanut, Why Did You
                        Make It?" [Director of agricultural research and professor of chemistry, Tuskegee
                        University, Tuskegee, 
                            Alabama
                        ]
               Dr. James A. Crain (2/20/32) "George 
                            Washington
                        ' Message to Americans" [Secretary of the Board of Temperance and
                        Social Welfare of the Disciples of Christ]
               Jack Evans (2/27/32) "Christian Ethics and Democracy in Business" [Personnel
                        director of the 
                            Columbia
                         Conserve Company]
               Dr. T. F. Reavis (3/5/32) "Racial Solidarity"
               A. H. Godard (3/26/32) "Facing the Future" [General secretary of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         YMCA]
               
               Alva A. Taylor (4/2/32) "The Responsibility of Youth As It Faces a New
                        World" [Dean of Fisk University]
               Elder Robert F. Tobin (12/11/32) "A Brighter Day Ahead" [Pastor of Christ
                        Temple Church of the Pentecostal Assemblies of the World]
               Alva A. Taylor (2/11/33) "The Negro and the Economic Outlook" [Chair,
                        Sociology Department, Vanderbilt University, 
                     Nashville, Tennessee
                  ; this
                        was interracial Sunday at North Methodist Episcopal Church, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]
               Rev. Marshall A. Talley (1/13/34) "Is Christianity Christian?" [Pastor,
                        Mount Zion Baptist Church, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , and member of the Negro Advisory Commission of the 
                            United States
                         Department of Commerce]
               Rev. J. L. Jones (1/20/34) "Can Christianity Solve Our Economic Problems?"
                        [Pastor, Jones Tabernacle, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; open meeting]
               W. E. B. Du Bois (3/17/34) "Segregation" [Professor, Shaw University,
                        Raleigh, 
                            North Carolina
                        . Speech was very critical of the NAACP, calling its theories unsound and
                        ineffective. Du Bois was one of the founders of the NAACP. He had taught at Wilberforce
                        University, Wilberforce, 
                            Ohio
                        ; the University of Pennsylvania, 
                            Philadelphia
                        ; and 
                            Atlanta
                         University.]
               George S. Schuyler (3/2/35) "New Frontiers for Negro Youth"
               Henry J. Richardson (3/17/35) "The New Negro and New Politics" [
                            Indianapolis
                         attorney and YMCA member]
               Percy L. Julian (1/11/36) "The Negro Scholarship and the Present Crisis"
                        [Chemist and director of research of the Glidden Company]
               Dean H. H. Smith (1/18/36) [Dean of the School of Religion, Bishop College, Dallas, 
                            Texas
                        ; meeting was held at Mount Zion Church]
               Lester B. Granger (2/8/36) [Representative of the National Urban League]
               Merze Tate (3/28/36) "International Relations" [Former Crispus Attucks
                        teacher; first Negro woman at 
                            Oxford
                        ; Fulbright scholar; former member of Fortnight Literary Club of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority]
               Dr. Thurman B. Rice (3/13/37) "Sex As Is: A Frank Discussion" [Professor of
                        bacteriology and public health, Indiana University School of Medicine, and chief of hygiene for
                        the Indiana Division of Public Health; open meeting]
               Dr. Charles S. Johnson (12/12/37) "A Sociological Philosophy for Action"
               Dr. Joseph C. Carroll (1/15/38) "Religion and Education" [History teacher,
                        Crispus Attucks High School]
               
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/19/38) "Anti-Semitism and the Negro Ministry"
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/24/39) "Our Work, Our Wages, Our Soul" Percy L.
                        Julian (11/25/39)
               Dr. Herman B Wells (12/2/39) "Education in a Democracy" [President, Indiana
                        University]
               Lorenzo J. Greene (2/11/40) "The Negro Sharecropper of Southeast 
                            Missouri
                        " [Chair, History and Government Department, Lincoln University,
                                
                     Jefferson City, Missouri
                  ]
               "Socialized Medicine" (2/18/40) Debate Roland Allen: Yes Dr. Carl Glenn
                        Roberts: No [Allen was manager of L. S. Ayres Department Store in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; Roberts was an 
                            Indianapolis
                         physician and surgeon.]
               Graham Martin and Archie Harris (3/23/40) Thomas E. Taylor Memorial Service [Students at
                        Indiana University. Martin was a graduate of Crispus Attucks High School and became one of the
                        first black commissioned officers in the 
                            United States
                         Navy in 1945.]
               Dr. Max Yergan (12/15/40) "Democracy: A Goal to Defend" [Executive director
                        of the Council on African Affairs]
               Earl B. Dickerson (1/5/41) "Democracy for the Negro through Political
                        Action" [Alderman, 2nd Ward, 
                            Chicago
                        ]
               Robert L. (Fighting Bob) Bradby (1/11/41) "The Things Which Hold Us Back"
               W. E. B. Du Bois (3/9/41) "The Economic Plight of the American Negro"
               Hale Woodruff (3/30/41) "The Place of Culture in the New World Order"
                        [Artist; former YMCA employee]
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/9/41) "Civilization' Civil War"
               Walter White (11/30/41)
               Dr. Channing H. Tobias (1/17/42) "The Church and the World Crisis"
               Dr. Lorenzo J. Greene (2/7/42) "The Negro in National Defense"
               Dr. Julian H. Lewis (3/15/42) "The Negro' Blood, Sweat, and Tears"
                        [Associate professor of pathology, Medical School, University of 
                            Chicago
                        ]
               Honoring solons (1/24/43) Current: Freeman B. Ransom, Wilbur Grant, Robert L. Brokenburr,
                            Dr. L. B. Meriwether, James Hunter, Jesse Dickinson
                        Past: Henry J. Richardson, J. Chester Allen, Rev. Marshall A. Talley, Dr. Theodore Cable
               
               
               
                  MORDECAI W. JOHNSON
                  
                  Fall Creek Young Men' Christian Association, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
               A. Philip 
                            Randolph
                         (2/7/43) "A Program for Negro People Today" [President,
                        Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters; open meeting]
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/6/43) "Freedom' Challenge"
               Dr. Eustace Hay den (1/22/44) "Religion and Democracy" [Chair, Comparative
                        Religion Department, University of 
                            Chicago
                        ]
               A. Philip 
                            Randolph
                         (2/5/44) "The Negro in War and Peace"
               William H. Hastie (2/20/44) "The Fight against Discrimination in the Armed
                        Forces" [paraphrased] [Former aide to Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson]
               
               "Industry, Employment, and the Negro" (2/27/44) Panel William Book
                            [Executive director, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Chamber of Commerce]
                        Ewing Sinclair [Personnel manager, P. R. Mallory Co.]
                        Andrew E. Ramsey [Teacher, Crispus Attucks High School]
                        Charles V. Turner [Agent, Cement Finishers, American Federation of Labor]
                        Walter Frisbie [Congress of Industrial Organizations]
                        Lionel Artis [Manager, Lockefield Gardens Housing Project, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ]
                        Moderator: Cleo Blackburn [Superintendent of Flanner House, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ]
                        Resource persons: W. Chester Hibbitt Starling James Ernest Dix
               
               Colonel H. D. McQueen (3/19/44) "Footprints on the Sands of Time" [Commander
                        of all-black 366th Infantry Regiment; protégé of Colonel Charles Young]
               Freida Neugabaur (12/3/44) "The Colonies in the Post-War World" [From
                        Capetown, 
                            South Africa
                        ]
               Henry F. Schricker (12/17/44) "Looking Ahead [Governor of Indiana]
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/11/45) "Implications of the Atomic Bomb"
               Percy L. Julian (11/18/45) "A Challenge to American Negro Statesmanship"
               John Eubanks (2/16/46) "The Negro in the Post-War Period" [Philosopher;
                        substitute for Rayford W. Logan whose brother had died. Logan was dean of the Howard University
                        Graduate School]
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/10/46) "Civilization' Civil War: Part II"
               Joseph C. Chapman (1/12/47) "Democracy in Gary Schools" [Executive secretary
                        of Gary, Indiana, Urban League]
               A. Philip 
                            Randolph
                         (1/19/47) "The World Struggle for Democracy"
               Rayford W. Logan (2/9/47) "Education for World Citizenship"
               Bishop William J. Walls (11/15/47) "Human Dynamite, or Europe Today" [Bishop
                        of the Indiana Conference of the AME Zion church]
               Percy L. Julian (11/23/47) "Modern Science and Our American Faith"
               Channing H. Tobias (12/14/47) "This Is the Hour" [Member of President Harry
                        S Truman' Commission on Civil Rights]
               Eugene Pulliam, Sr. (12/21/47) "The New Terror in Europe" [Publisher, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star; memorial service for the sixth anniversary of Pearl Harbor]
               Walter White (2/22/48) "Issues of the Day" [title paraphrased]
               
               Dr. Charles Drew (3/21/48) "The Present Status of Negro Health and Medical
                        Care" [Authority on plasma and blood banks]
               Charles F. Fleming (1/23/49) "Civil Rights Legislation in the General
                        Assembly" [Indiana secretary of state]
               Dr. Charles Wesley (3/6/49) "The Crisis and the Challenge" [President,
                        Wilberforce University]
               Percy L. Julian (11/20/49) "Science and the World Order"
               Rev. Morris Golder (12/18/49) "Christmas Message" [Pastor, Christ Temple
                        Church]
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/12/50) "Ghandi and the Liberation of 
                            India
                        " [800+ in attendance]
               Dr. Merrill B. McFall (11/19/50) "One God—One World—One
                        People" [Pastor, First Methodist Church, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana; given Emblem Club Award for Racial Amity]
               Henry F. Schricker (12/10/50) [Open meeting]
               Rev. Morris Golder (12/17/50) "Christmas or Christ"
               Dr. Herman L. Shibler (1/6/51) "Public Education in These Times"
                        [Superintendent, 
                            Indianapolis
                         Public Schools]
               Dr. John Eubanks (1/21/51) "The Hopes of 1951" [Vice-president, Jarvis
                        Christian College, Hawkins, 
                            Texas
                        ; former YMCA employee]
               Dr. Charles Wesley (1/13/51) [President, Central State University, Wilberforce, 
                            Ohio
                        ]
               Walter White (2/3/51) "Integrated Society or a Segregated Society"
                        [Executive secretary, NAACP]
               A. Philip 
                            Randolph
                         (2/18/51) Rev. Howard Baumgartel (2/25/51) Tribute to Faburn E. DeFrantz who had
                        reached the mandatory retirement age of sixty-five [Baumgartel, local head of the Federation of
                        Churches, was a substitute for Percy L. Julian.]
               Ezzard Charles (3/18/51) Thomas E. Taylor Memorial Service Honorees: Branch McCracken
                            [Indiana University head basketball coach]
                        William Garrett [Indiana University All-American basketball player and first black player in
                            the Big Ten Conference]
                        Crispus Attucks High School basketball team which came within two games of winning the state
                            championship
                        [Charles was a heavyweight boxing champion]
               
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/11/51) "The Foundations of Freedom"
               
               Philip Willkie (11/18/51) "The American Struggle" [Indiana state legislator]
               Dr. Nilkanth Chavre (12/18/51) "The Future of World Peace" [International
                        scholar]
               Rev. Morris Golder (12/23/51) "The Christmas That We Need"
               Archie A. Alexander (1/8/52) "Straw for the Bricks of America" [Civil
                        engineer; voted most distinguished graduate, University of 
                     Iowa, Iowa
                   City]
               Merze Tate (2/3/52) "Education and International Good Will"
               Dr. Forrest O. Wiggins (3/9/52) [Professor of philosophy, University of 
                     Minnesota, Minneapolis
                  ; grew up in Senate Avenue YMCA. Wiggins was the only
                        Negro faculty member at 
                            Minnesota
                         and was fired before his tenure year.]
               Jesse Owens (3/29/52) [Track star; Olympic gold medalist]
               Channing H. Tobias (1/11/53) [Phelps-Stokes Fund of 
                            New York
                        , which specializes in the promotion of greater educational opportunities for
                        Negroes]
               Judge Herbert E. Millen (1/24/53) "A Time for Leadership" [First Negro judge
                        in 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Municipal Court]
               Dean George Goodman (2/22/53) "Religion As a Basis of World Brotherhood [Director of
                        personnel, Fisk University; advocate of Bahai faith]
               Marjorie Penny (2/28/53) [Director of Fellowship House in 
                            Philadelphia
                        ; open meeting]
               Walter H. Aiken (3/8/53) "Building a State Economy" [Building contractor,
                                
                     Atlanta, Georgia
                  ]
               Jesse Owens (3/29/53) Thomas E. Taylor Memorial Day
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/8/53) "Our Historic Opportunity"
               Dr. Max Yergan (11/15/53) "Things That Men Live By"
               Eleanor Roosevelt (12/13/53) "International Human Rights" [title
               Paraphrased] [Held at the 2,000-seat Murat Temple]
               Bishop M. W. Clair, Jr. (12/20/53) "Christmas Message" [Former pastor at
                        Simpson AME Church; selected by Council of Bishops to appraise Methodist work in Africa]
               Bertram E. Gardner (3/28/54) Memorial and recognition service [Education secretary, Senate
                        Avenue YMCA]
               George S. Schuyler (1/10/54)
               Bishop William J. Walls (1/10/55) "Rolling Simes [sic] versus
                        Standing Minds" [AME Zion clergy]
               Irene M. Gaines (1/30/55) "Human Relations on Your Street" [President,
                        National Association of Colored Women' Clubs; open meeting]
               Dr. Lawrence Hosie (2/12/55) "Workable Brotherhood" [Executive director, 
                            Indianapolis
                         Church Federation]
               
               
                  ELEANORM ROOSEVELT AT THE SENATE
                                AVENUE YMCA MONSTER MEETING IN INDIANAPOLIS, DECEMBER
                            13, 1953
                  Fall Creek Young Men' Christian Association, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
               Percy L. Julian (2/26/55)
               Rev. Archibald Carey (3/19/55) [AME minister from 
                            Chicago
                        ]
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/13/55) "A Troubled World in the Middle East"
               A. Philip 
                            Randolph
                         (11/20/55) "The Civil Rights Crisis and American Democracy"
               Adam Clayton Powell (12/6/55) "Two Billion Majority" [
                            United States
                         congressman reporting on the Bandung Conference; meeting held at the Murat Temple.
                        Meeting in Bandung, 
                            Indonesia
                        , April, 1955, representatives of African and Asian nations hoped to build closer
                        ties between their countries, to  forge a declaration of
                        neutrality in the cold war, and to end colonialism.]
               Bishop William J. Walls (1/29/56) "Is It Daybreak or Midnight?"
               Rev. Archibald Carey (2/12/56) "Obligation of the New Order"
               Ella P. Stewart (2/26/56) "A String of Pearls along the Equator"
               "The Situation in the South" (3/18/56) Panel Rev. Clinton Marsh
                        Starling James, president, Federation of Associated Clubs, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        Rev. J. Inman Dixon, pastor, Simpson AME Church
                        T. C. Johnson, teacher, Crispus Attucks High School and columnist for 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder
                  
                        Willard B. Ransom, attorney, Madam C. J. Walker Company
               
               Richard Horne (3/25/56) [Cottage supervisor at the Indiana Boys' School, 
                            Plainfield
                        ]
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/11/56)
               A. Philip 
                            Randolph
                         (11/?/56) "The Civil Rights Resolution in America"
               Dr. T. M. R. Howard (11/25/56) [
                            Chicago
                         physician]
               Dr. Charles S. Johnson (12/9/56) [President, Fisk University]
               Rev. A. P. Morris (1/13/57) [Pastor, AME Zion church, Charlotte, 
                            North Carolina
                        ]
               Dr. Charles Wesley (2/3/57)
               Rev. Archibald Carey (2/17/57)
               Roy Wilkins (3/3/57) [Executive secretary, NAACP; succeeded Walter White]
               Judge Wendell E. Green (3/17/57)
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/10/57)
               John Wesley Dobbs (11/24/57) [Grand Master of 
                            Georgia
                         Masons]
               Dr. E.C. Smith (12/8/57) [Evangelist from 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.]
               Jackie Robinson (1/28/58) [
                            Brooklyn
                         Dodgers; broke the color barrier in major league baseball]
               Thurgood Marshall (3/9/58) "Now the Time" [Served as counsel for NAACP Legal
                        and Education Fund; played key role in 1954 school desegregation case; had role in desegregation
                        cases, Sweat v Painter, Smith v Allright; served as circuit judge; served as
                        solicitor general of the 
                            United States
                        ; Supreme Court justice. Introduced by Willard B. Ransom]
               Martin Luther King, Jr. (12/12/58) "Remaining Awake through a Revolution"
                        [Held in Cadle Tabernacle; 1,100 in attendance; $500 honorarium]
               
               
                  MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., MONSTER MEETING SPEAKER, WITH INDIANAPOLIS MINISTERS AND COMMUNITY LEADERS IN 1959
                  STANDING, FROM LEFT: THIRD, DR. ANDREW J. BROWN; FOURTH, DR. LUCIAN MERRIWEATHER; FIFTH, THE REVEREND F. BENJAMIN DAVIS; SEVENTH, JOHN JAMES, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. FALL CREEK YMCA.
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder Collection, Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Neg no C3936.
               
               Arrington High (1/11/59) "The Role of the Negro Press in an Integrated Society or a
                        Segregated Society" [Former 
                            Mississippi
                         journalist; shipped out of 
                            Mississippi
                         in a coffin; declared insane and placed in an asylum; known as the "Eagle
                        Eye"]
               Roy Wilkins (3/1/59)
               Martin Luther King, Jr. (12/11/59) "Remaining Awake through a Revolution"
                        [Room for 1,000 in the new 
                            Fall Creek
                         YMCA]
               Mordecai W. Johnson (1/10/60)
               Lester Granger (2/7/60) "A Time for Greatness" [Executive director, National
                        Urban League; $175 honorarium]
               Joel A. Rogers (2/21/60) [Reporter, 
                            Pittsburgh
                         Courier]
               Dr. Samuel D. Proctor (3/20/60) [President, 
                            Virginia
                         Union University, 
                            Richmond
                        ]
               Bishop Joseph W. Gomez (3/20/60) [AME church]
               Joel A. Rogers (2/5/61) "Africa' Gift to America"
               
               Dr. Samuel D. Proctor (2/?/61) "A Creative Minority" [President, 
                            North Carolina
                         A&T College, 
                            Greensboro
                        ]
               Judge William G. Hastie (3/5/61) [First Negro federal judge in the 
                            United States
                        ; former governor of the Virgin Islands; winner of the NAACP Spingarn Medal]
               Mordecai W. Johnson (11/12/61)
               Adam Clayton Powell (12/8/61) "The Negro: America' Only
                        Revolutionary"
               E. Franklin Frazier (1/14/62) [Sociologist; author of controversial book, Black Bourgeoisie]
               Alex M. Clark (1/20/62) [Mayor of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]
               Benjamin E. Mays (2/4/62) "A Dilemma or Challenge" [President, Morehouse
                        College]
               Bishop Joseph W. Gomez (2/18/62) "Retrospect and Prospect"
               Ralph Helstein (3/11/62) "The Changing Nature of the Society in Which We
                        Live" [International president of United Packinghouse, Food and Allied Workers of
                        America (AFL-CIO)]
               A. Philip 
                            Randolph
                         (3/18/62)
               Sarah Harris Taylor (3/25/62) Thomas E. Taylor Memorial Service [Widow of Thomas E. Taylor]
               Dr. Rufus Clement (12/2/62) [President, 
                            Atlanta
                         University] Adam Clayton Powell (12/8/62) Dr. James Nabritt (3/24/63) [President,
                        Howard University]
               Additional speakers; dates and other information not located: J. Ernest Wilkins [physicist];
                        Paul Robeson [actor, singer]; Roland Hayes [singer]; Langston Hughes [poet, novelist]; Lillian
                        Evanti [coloratura soprano]; Jersey Joe Walcott [heavyweight boxing champion]; Lillian Smith
                        [author]; Frederick Hovde [president, Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana]; Ralph F. Gates [governor of Indiana]
            
         
         
         
            "Please Send Stamps": The Civil War Letters of William Allen Clark Part I
            
                    Edited by Margaret Black Taturn
                    *
                
            William Allen Clark enlisted in the Union Army on August 8, 1862, and was mustered into Company K of
                    the 72nd Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment as a private on August 16 in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .1 He began to write letters home to his parents in Rossville,
                    Indiana, the next day and continued, with few exceptions, to do so weekly until his discharge on
                    June 26, 1865, as a corporal. Little written history of Allen—as he referred to
                    himself—exists except in his letters, in family accounts, and in his enlistment records.
                    Born May 24, 1844, he was a twin whose brother died at fourteen months of age. He had seven other
                    brothers and two sisters. Five feet, eight inches tall with brown hair and eyes, after a year in the
                    Union Army he sported a mustache and had gained about five pounds eating army rations2
            
            William Allen Clark' parents—David C. and Mary M. (Slifer) Clark—were
                    among the first residents of 
                        Clinton County
                    , Indiana, settling near Rossville in Ross Township in 1831. Like most of the
                    county' population, they were farmers. The Clarks had come to Indiana from 
                        Ohio
                    . They belonged to the Missionary Baptist church, and several of the family members were
                    ministers. In politics the Clarks were Democrats.3 One can only imagine what
                    caused the eighteen-year-old Allen to enlist in the Union Army in the late summer of 1862 when war
                    enthusiasm had waned and volunteering was at a low ebb: the glory of being a Union soldier, the pay,
                    his belief in the 
                        United States
                    , perhaps even a desire to avoid possible conscription." A supporter of Stephen
                    A. Douglas, Clark believed 
                  
                     ∗ Margaret Black Tatum is an English instructor at Kirtland
                            Community College, Roscommon, 
                                Michigan
                            .
                  
                     1 [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant General
                                of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1866-1869), VI, 179.
                  
                     2 Copies of William Allen Clark' enlistment and discharge
                            papers, as well as a family Bible and numerous other personal records, are held in the
                            private collection of the family of August Frederick Voss, Jr., 
                        St. Louis, Missouri
                     .
                  
                     3
                            History of 
                                    Clinton County
                                , Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1886), 289, 823; Joseph 
                                Clay
                            -baugh, History of 
                                    Clinton County
                                , Indiana … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1913), 691; A. W. Bowen, pubs., A Portrait and Biographical
                                Record of 
                                    Boone
                                 and 
                                    Clinton Counties
                                , Ind…. (
                                Chicago
                            , 1895), 617-19; Voss family papers.
                  
                     4 By midsummer, 1862, the early enthusiasm for the war had waned in
                            Indiana and in other states. Volunteering was slow. In June and again in July the federal
                            government issued calls for additional troops. On July 17, 1862, the United
               
                     firmly in the Democratic slogan, "The Constitution as
                    it is, the Union as it was"—before the war. A federal government that interfered
                    with states' rights was suspect, he thought, and deserved criticism. Initially, his letters
                    do not reflect his objections to the administration' policies, probably as a result of his
                    zeal as a young recruit. As the war drags on, however, Clark becomes increasingly critical of the
                    Republicans, although ever aware of Union Army censors and possible reprimand from his officers. He
                    was not a Copperhead, but he did feel that states had the right to govern themselves without federal
                        participation.5
            
            As did many Indiana residents, Clark feared freedom for slaves, believing the abolition of slavery
                    was also abolition of white men' rights. He reasoned that the freed blacks would come
                    north, create competition with white farmers, and destroy the prosperity that white northern America
                    had toiled for with backbreaking heroism.6 Remembering his father' role
                    in 
                        Clinton County
                    ' development— journeying to Indiana with his wife and two of his
                    children from 
                        Ohio
                    , staking his claim on section 36 of Ross Township, and becoming one of the
                    township' first trustees—William Allen Clark supported the Union but believed
                    that the South was not completely wrong. He objected to the secession of the southern states, but he
                    also objected to the abolitionists' antislavery policies. As a young recruit, he could
                    accept war as the only answer. Later, with the deaths of local 
                        Clinton County
                     men—many his neighbors and 
                  States Congress authorized the states to draft men to fill their militia quotas if
                            necessary. By the end of July, steps had been taken in every township in Indiana to enroll
                            men subject to conscription. An additional call for troops came on August 4, 1862. Although
                            it was subsequently proven that Indiana had supplied more than its requisite quota of
                            volunteers, records indicated that the state was in arrears. In addition, certain townships
                            within the state had not supplied their fair share of troops. For these reasons a draft was
                            held on October 6, 1862. According to the state adjutant general' report, a total
                            of seventy-one men were drafted from 
                                Clinton County
                            , thirteen from Ross Township. One county history, however, avers that no one
                            from 
                                Clinton County
                             was drafted until 1864; another contends that "not a single drafted
                            man went from 
                                Clinton County
                             into the war, although on one or two occasions there was a narrow escape from
                            that result." Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I, 61-69, Appendix, 189;
                            Claybaugh, History of 
                                    Clinton County
                                , 173; History of 
                                    Clinton County
                                
                     , 393; see also Charles E. Canup, "Conscription and Draft in
                            Indiana during the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of History, X
                            (June, 19141, 70-74. See below William Allen Clark to David C. Clark, October 15, 1862, pp.
                            95-96.
                  
                     5 For discussions of politics in Indiana during the Civil War years
                            see Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850-1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965). chaps. 1-111, V; Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics
                                during the Civil War (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1949); John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to
                            Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, chaps. VIII, IX John H. Holliday, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and the Civil War (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. IV,
                            No. 9; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1906).
                  
                     6 For a discussion of Hoosiers' opinions on slavery,
                            abolition, and African Americans prior to the Civil War, see Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro in Indiana: A Study of a Minority (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. XXXVII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1957); Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 13-28. See
                            also note 29, p. 94 below.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM ALLEN CLARK IN HIS LATER YEARS
                  
                  Courtesy Mary E. Voss
               
                     friends7—the interminable length
                    of the war, and firsthand knowledge of the destruction wrought by both northern and southern armies,
                    he changed his mind, deciding that compromise perhaps provided the best way for the North and South
                    to coexist. Realistically, however, he recognized as premature the rumors of compromise that
                    frequently circulated at the front.
            Clark entered the "skirmish" as an eighteen-year-old boy, wide-eyed and dependent
                    upon the voices and opinions of neighbors and family. Amid the reality of a war that he soon
                    recognized would not be resolved in a matter of months, he grew, not only putting on pounds in
                    weight but also pounds in intellect that would evaluate and process the sights, sounds, and opinions
                    he faced daily in camp, on picket duty, and in the trenches. He becomes someone who warns his
                    younger brother not to join the army and who, one year from enlistment, evaluates his reasons for
                    going to war and finds them lacking. His words mirror the actions of many Hoosier Democrats who
                    opposed Governor Oliver P. Morton and President Abraham Lincoln.8
            
            During the war Clark served in Colonel John Thomas Wilder' famed Lightning Brigade.
                    Operating as mounted infantry and armed with the valued 
                        Spencer
                     carbines, the distinguished unit patrolled, scouted, and fought throughout the
                        South,9 and Clark recorded many of its exploits in his letters home. Writing
                    almost every Sunday to his parents as he had been taught to do back in the Sabbath schools in
                    Indiana, he recreates the life of a Union Army private—the rations or lack of rations,
                    the cold, wet nights, the promised pay that came late, the gouging by the sutler, the constant need
                    for stamps, and the lack of letters from home. The son of a farmer, Clark looks upon the countryside
                    as a farmer, commenting about the weather, the crops, and the trees that he encounters on his
                    three-year journey through the southern states. Politics and religion were two chief concerns in
                    Indiana prior to the war; in Clark' letters they continue to be important topics during the
                    war. 
                  
                     7 See note 3 above.
                  
                     8 Interestingly, Abraham Lincoln was a distant relative of William
                            Allen Clark. Charles 
                                Jordan
                            , Clark' great-uncle, married Nancy Croom in 1812; Nancy'
                            half-brother was Moses Croom, Mary Todd Lincoln' grandfather. Since Clark later
                            married his first cousin, Jennie 
                                Jordan
                             Clark, who was the granddaughter of Charles and Nancy 
                                Jordan
                            , he was distantly related to Lincoln through family and marriage. This
                            information is contained in a genealogical research document completed by Grace Greenwood
                            Clark Jones, William Allen Clark' daughter. The document remains in the Voss
                            Collection.
                  
                     9 For information on John Thomas Wilder and the Lightning Brigade, see
                            Glenn W. Sunderland, Lightning at Hoover' Gap: The Story of
                                Wilder' Brigade (
                                New York
                            , 1969); Samuel C. Williams, General John T. Wilder, Commander of
                                the Lightning Brigade (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1936). For specific information on the 72nd Indiana'
                            participation in the activities of the Lightning Brigade, see Benjamin F. McGee, History of the 72d Indiana Volunteer Infantry of the Mounted Lightning
                            Brigade …, ed. William R. Jewell (
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1882).
               
                    
                    
                  FROM WILLIAM ALLEN CLARK' LETTER TO HIS FATHER, FEBRUARY 19,1865
                  Courtesy Mary E. Voss.
                Clark drank up news from any source because of the absence of it at the front. Rumors
                    written in newspapers or passed along by visiting troops were fact until, as the days passed, they
                    were not realized or were proven false. Clark learned that friends had died, that girls he knew had
                    married, and that the certainty of a quick war was not so certain. Life was going on without him
                    back home as he trekked through a war that seemed to provide little honor to an Indiana Democrat.
                    Not every Hoosier soldier backed Morton and the Union leaders' policies as Clark'
                    letters so graphically reveal. In addition to his political comments, Clark laments not having a
                    good gospel sermon once a week and mentions seeking churches in the South to attend. He notes the
                    death of the regiment' chaplain, John R. Eddy, by a mortar shell, recognizing that even the
                    servants of the church were not immune from death by war.
            Clark' letters begin in the prose of a young man, with slices of camp and army life jotted
                    down hastily: "I am well and geting fat. I weigh 158 pounds. I have been on guard twice. We
                    are getting our Uniform today and will get our pay tomorrow and our arms Tuesday. We will go South
                    the last of this week" (August 17, 1862). Later, as Clark questions his reasons for
                    enlisting, his political comments become more pronounced, even after he hints that speaking about
                    politics makes him uncomfortable because his ideas might be misinterpreted by people at home: 
                        Camp life is so lonesome without a variety of reading matter, and I dont get as many letters
                            as I did at first. I have Curtailed some of my Correspondance. I found that some of them
                            tried to get me to commit myself, and that some wrote me so they could have something to
                            Story about. I think I will save my Credit by writing only to those that I know to be my
                            friends [June 21, 1863].
                    
                     As the war continues, Clark' sentences become longer,
                    more complex, reflecting perhaps the complexity of his situation. Even in battlefield circumstances,
                    his words—as his tour of duty becomes two years and then three years—are more
                    succinct, more concise, more poignant. At one point, when he admits having shot someone, he simply
                    conveys his denial of murder, his fear, and his refusal to believe that the man behind the log is
                    dead by saying, "I was on the line two hours longer. But saw nothing more of
                    him…. I think it was the narrowest escape I have made" (May 30, 1864).
            Clark' letters were his lifeline. He scavenged for paper, sometimes using gunpowder and
                    blackberry juice as ink. At the height of the battle for 
                        Atlanta
                    , discouraged, tired, and sick, he asks the rhetorical question, "Now how am I
                    to keep posted [on political matters] unless I have the material to write for the requisite
                    information" (August 7, 1864)? Without stamps, paper, pen, ink, or envelopes, his ties to
                    home and his past were severed, leaving Clark to confront his own mortality.
            During the Civil War Clark indeed experienced many positive things that he would have missed back
                    home in 
                        Clinton County
                    , Indiana—Daniel 
                        Boone
                    ' 
                        Kentucky
                    , gorgeous cypress woods, the kindness of southern hospitality toward Union
                    soldiers—but he also saw desertions, camp followers, gambling, gruesome battlefield
                    wounds, and countless deaths. He participated in some of the war' major battles,
                        Stones River, Chickamauga, the siege of 
                        Atlanta
                    . He gave three years of his life for a cause that he questioned and debated up until
                    his discharge. He was eighteen when he enlisted, but within a year he was calling new
                    eighteen-year-old recruits "green" and not soldier material—poignant
                    evidence of Clark' own maturation during his tour of duty.
            The value of Clark' letters rests in part in the regularity with which this articulate young
                    Hoosier wrote his parents. More importantly, the correspondence documents the effects of the Civil
                    War upon a boy, and ultimately upon a man, who was ambivalent about the war and the politics of the
                    war. Neither unwavering in his belief in the justification for the conflict nor wholehearted in his
                    sympathy for the South, Clark was undoubtedly typical of a number of Hoosier soldiers. He knew he
                    was taking part in a fight of such magnitude that it would forever change politics in Indiana and in
                    the 
                        United States
                    . He knew he did not like many of those changes, but the alternative, too, was
                    unpalatable. Clark asked his parents to save his letters so that he might reread them when and if he
                    returned home. David and Mary Clark were already doing so because they, too, were moved by their
                    son' words. They read with worry, shock, and at times amusement the accounts of their son,
                    who left home a slogan-shouting boy and returned a man who had discovered that slogans did not win a
                    war, only men and the expense of their lives. Feisty, Clark wrote his political views discreetly  in his letters home, thumbing his nose at Republicans, army
                    censors, and his fellow soldiers who supported Lincoln and Morton.
            Following the death of Clark' granddaughter June Clark Voss in 1974, the letters reproduced
                    below and in three subsequent issues of the Indiana Magazine of History were
                    discovered—complete with envelopes—in an old, white, stained shoe box in the
                    basement of Voss' home in Eureka, 
                        Missouri
                    .10 The letters reflect Clark' education and his writing
                    skill, and Clark himself guided their editing. In one letter home he reminds his younger brother
                    George to put periods at the end of sentences and to capitalize proper names. Written on the
                    battlefield and in leaky tents, with handmade quill pens dipped in ink that bled through thin paper,
                    Clark' letters are for the most part quite legible. They survive today as a legacy of early
                    Indiana and of Hoosier Democrats who seriously questioned the Union they saw emerging from the war
                    yet who fought—and died—to preserve it.
            
               
                  10 Upon discovering the letters, Clark' great-eat-granddaughter,
                        Mary Elizabeth Voss, was surprised to find that the stamps—the ones that William
                        Allen Clark had coveted, begged, and traded for—had been cut from the envelopes.
                        Someone had apparently thought the stamps more valuable than the letters.
            
            
               ENVELOPE FROM ONE OF CLARK' LETTERS TO HIS FATHER NOTE THAT SOMEONE FROM
                        A LATER GENERATION HAS CAREFULLY REMOVED THE STAMP. Courtesy Mary E.
                        Voss.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Indiana]
                           
                                    Aug. 17th 18621
                           
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        I take pen in hand to write you a few lines. I am well and geting fat. I weigh 158
                                    pounds. I have been on guard twice. We are getting our Uniform today and will get
                                    our pay tomorrow and our arms Tuesday. We will go South the last of this week. We
                                    are in camp Chris Miller, 2 miles north west of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    .2
                        
                        I would have written sooner but did not know what regiment we would get into. I like
                                    camp life very well. We have Bread, Beans, Potatoes, Coffee and fat Pork 3 times a
                                        day.3 We was at 
                                        Lafayette
                                     [Indiana] one night and arrived here on Tuesday.
                        
                           
                              1 William Allen Clark guided the following transcription
                                        of his correspondence by reminding his brother George, in a letter of January 9,
                                        1865, to place periods at the end of sentences and to capitalize proper names.
                                        Probably in part because of the difficult circumstances under which he wrote,
                                        Clark himself did not use apostrophes in his letters; his periods, commas, and
                                        pen pauses all resembled one another; and his capitalization was haphazard. In
                                        recognition of Clark' obvious knowledge of grammar, correct punctuation
                                        has been placed at the ends of sentences, commas have been added throughout the
                                        letters to facilitate reading, and words that begin sentences have been
                                        capitalized. In other instances Clark' capitalization, whenever clear,
                                        remains unchanged; in case of doubt the rules of modem usage were followed. Some
                                        decisions regarding sentence divisions were necessarily arbitrary, and the
                                        letters have also been arbitrarily divided into paragraphs. The location and
                                        spacing of headings, salutations, and closings have been standardized.
                                        Clark' spelling, which was quite good, has been retained. Two letters
                                        from David C. Clark to his son have been inserted in their proper chronological
                                        order.
                           
                              2 According to the state adjutant general'
                                        report, Chris Miller of 
                                            Lafayette
                                         had been captain of Company H, 10th Indiana Volunteer Infantry
                                        Regiment, one of the three-month units organized in April, 1861, shortly after
                                        the firing on Fort Sumter. Mustered out at the end of his term of service,
                                        Miller is also listed as the commandant who organized or recruited the 72nd
                                        Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment. Camp Chris Miller, later renamed Camp
                                        Murphy and still later Camp Carrington, was one of a number of rendezvous and
                                        organizing points in 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         for Hoosier troops being mustered into federal service. It was
                                        described by another Indiana soldier as "situated on the East of the
                                        [Central] canal and between the canal and the 
                                            Lafayette
                                         Rail R. It is a splendid place for a camp. looking toward the South
                                        East we see the city stretching away in the distance and North west looms up a
                                        hill some five mile distance …." [William H. H. Terrell],
                                            Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8
                                        vols., 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1866-1869), II, 23; Joseph Claybaugh, History of 
                                                Clinton County
                                            , Indiana … (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1913), 169; "Civil War Diary of Jabez T. Cox,"
                                            Indiana Magazine of History, XXVIII (March, 1932), 41.
                           
                              3 By an act of Congress of August 3, 1861, soldiers were
                                        entitled to 12 ounces salt pork or bacon or 1 1/4 pounds fresh or salt beef, 1
                                        1/2 pounds soft bread or flour, 1 pound hard bread or 1 1/4 pounds corn meal.
                                        For every 100 rations the soldiers were also issued 1 peck of beans or peas, 10
                                        pounds rice or hominy, 10 pounds green coffee, 8 pounds roasted coffee or 1 1/2
                                        pounds tea, 15 pounds sugar, 1 1/4 pounds candles, 4 pounds soap, 2 quarts salt,
                                        4 quarts vinegar, 1/2 pound pepper, 1/2 bushel potatoes, and 1 quart molasses.
                                        US., Statutes at Large, XII, 289; Patricia Faust, ed., The Historical Times Illustrated Encyclopedia of the Civil War (
                                            New York
                                        , 1986). 615-16. As the war continued, rations were sometimes cut in
                                        half and often were not available. Soldiers also supplemented rations by
                                        foraging. Details were sent out to bring back food from nearby farms where
                                        receipts that could be redeemed by the army quartermaster were to be issued to
                                        the farmers or landowners. Foraging was frequently abused, however, and often
                                        soldiers plundered for food. Faust, Historical Times Illustrated
                                            Encyclopedia, 266.
                        
                        
                        I was at Newtons on Thursday and found them well.4 Newton did not
                                    object to my enlistment. I will not get a furlough because theigh will not grant one
                                    for more than 2 days. I will leave my pay and clothes with Newton.
                        We have Swearing, cardplaying, and Bible reading in abundance.5
                                    There is 3 sick persons in the camp and 1900 men. I will get my likeness and leave
                                    them at I. Ns and you can get them there.6 I was at the Cavalry
                                    camp on Friday and saw our Rossville boys. Their camp is 1/4 of a mile west of here.
                                    4 of our Companies will go to 
                                        Kentucky
                                     to night.
                        Well George, I want you to write soon and often.7 Tell me all
                                    about the Boys and girls. I would like to have been at singing last night.8 Tell A. F., J. D., and S. S. to write often and not to wait
                                    fore me as time is precious.9 Father write as soon as you can
                                    and tell me the news as we cant get any news here. Tell the neighbor Boys to write.
                                    Well I must Quit as dinner is ready. So wait till next week. Address Wm. A. Clark
                                    72nd Reg. Ind. Vol in care of Capt. Collins.10
                        
                        
                                    your as undutiful as ever,
                                    Wm. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Lebanon, Kentucky
                           
                                    Sept. 1st 1862
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        I take pencil in hand to write to you. I am tolerable well. I have had the Dearegh
                                    [diarrhea] for a few days but am better now.11 We 
                              
                                 4 Isaac Newton Clark (born October 13, 1833) was a
                                            preacher and William Allen Clark' older brother who lived in 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            . He is also referred to as I. N. in Clark' letters.
                                            See appendix, pp. 108, for a complete list of family members.
                              
                                 5 William Allen Clark' family were Missionary
                                            Baptists and attended church regularly. Many members of this and other
                                            denominations in the mid-nineteenth century believed that card playing,
                                            swearing, theater going, and dancing were sins equal to drinking. The sights
                                            and sounds of Camp Chris Miller may well have surprised and shocked Clark.
                                            Claybaugh, History of 
                                                    Clinton County
                                                
                                 , 692; John H. Holliday, 
                                    
                                                    Indianapolis
                                                 and the Civil War (Indiana Historical Society
                                            Publications, Vol. IV, No. 9; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1906], 539; Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the
                                                Civil War Era, 1850-1880 (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1965), 619-23.
                              
                                 6 A likeness, or a facsimile, is a photograph.
                              
                                 7 George W. Clark (b. March 24, 1851) was William
                                            Allen Clark' youngest brother.
                              
                                 8 Clark may be referring to singing at church, a
                                            pleasure the church encouraged; or he may have meant a singing school or
                                            party, which was a popular form of recreation and entertainment during the
                                            mid-nineteenth century. History of 
                                                Clinton County
                                            , Indiana … (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1886), 326-27.
                              
                                 9 Augustus F. Clark (b. December 26, 1828), Stephen S.
                                            Clark (b. December 21, 1831), and Jonas D. Clark (b. September 27, 1837)
                                            were William Allen Clark' brothers.
                              
                                 10 Hiram B. Collins, whose residence is listed as 
                                                Frankfort
                                            , served as captain of the 72nd Indiana Volunteer Infantry
                                            Regiment from August, 1862, until April, 1863. Terrell, Report
                                                of the Adjutant General, II, 671
                              
                                 11 Diarrhea and dysentery started in the recruiting
                                            camps and plagued soldiers for most of the war. Clark was fortunate that his
                                            case was not severe; during the Civil War diarrhea and dysentery claimed
                                            more soldiers than did battle wounds. Faust,Historical Times
                                                Illustrated Encyclopedia, 484. Of the 1,739,135 reported cases of
                                            diarrhea and dysentery, 44,558 soldiers died from the ailment. Paul E.
                                            Steiner, Disease in the Civil War: Natural Biological
                                            Warfare in 1861-1865 (
                                                Springfield
                                            , Ill., 1968), 10.
                           
                                     left Ind. on Wednesday and arrived at 
                                        Louisville
                                     thursday. Left there at 6 oclock. Got here the same day. Was put on
                                    picket guard Saturday morning and tore up Stakes Sunday morning.12 Shouldered our knapsacks and marched 10 miles on the road to Dandle
                                        [Kentuckyl,13 laid on the ground in the rain with out tents
                                    till this morning. Then received orders to march back, which we done on Double Quick
                                    with 56 pounds on our back, not much fun about that.14
                        
                        The health of the boys is good and they are well satisfied. We left Al Sailes at
                                    Indianpolis sick.15 We lack for nothing but water. Yesterday I
                                    drank water that was so dirty that the sediment settled in the Canteen one inch deep
                                    with one quart of water.16 Hard times. Peaches are plenty but
                                    Unionism here is about played out.17
                        
                        The Rebel Morgan is reported within about 14 miles of here with 15,000 men. We have
                                    about 5000, some difference, but we are not afraid. It is all bash [bosh? 1.18 We are under marching orders now, but there is no telling
                                    where we will go. We dont do as we please here.
                        
                           
                              12 According to many, picket guard was the most dangerous
                                        of infantry duties. Made up of" a lieutenant, 1 sergeant, 4 corporals,
                                        and 40 privates," the picket guard was positioned in advance of the
                                        main army and kept a look out for the enemy. Faust, Historical
                                            Times Illustrated Encyclopedia, 583.
                           
                              13 Knapsacks were uncomfortable and hot. They were later
                                        given up by soldiers in favor of a blanket roll, which was lighter. Tied with a
                                        rope, the roll was easier to carry over the shoulder. Ibid.,
                                        420.
                           
                              14 A double-quick or double-time march consisted of 180
                                        three-foot steps per minute.
                           
                              15 An Albert G. Sale, whose residence was listed as 
                                            Frankfort
                                        , served with Company K, 72nd Regiment, for the duration of the war.
                                        Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, VI, 180.
                           
                              16 Drought conditions existed in 
                                            Kentucky
                                         in 1862. The dry weather would later be a key factor in a battle at
                                                
                                 Perryville, Kentucky
                              , in early October.
                                        See note 36 below. Mark Mayo Boatner III, The Civil War
                                        Dictionary (
                                            New York
                                        , 1959), 642-44. Clark' diarrhea might also have been
                                        attributable to the condition of the water supply, which was shared by everyone
                                        and everything—from humans to horses to mosquitoes. Clothes were
                                        laundered in the water; latrines were built by the streams and rivers; and
                                        people rarely boiled water before drinking it. when thirsty, the men did not
                                        care about who or what shared water with them or about the medical consequences
                                        of pollution. See Steiner, Disease in the Civil War, 41-42,
                                        77, passim.
                           
                           
                              17 Clark may have been referring to support of the
                                        Republican party' war goals by soldiers at the front. The patriotic
                                        slogans of the early months of the war were becoming fainter and fainter as
                                        volunteers saw the destruction to the countryside and to human lives. On the
                                        other hand, he may well have been writing of an erosion of Union sentiment in
                                        central 
                                            Kentucky
                                        , a border state torn between allegiance to North or South. Perhaps
                                        Clark was being sarcastic in his reference to peaches and Unionism in the same
                                        sentence. Food and a full stomach were important to a soldier; amid the
                                        realities of war, idealism—particularly in the form of Republican
                                        rhetoric—was less so.
                           
                              18 John Hunt Morgan in September, 1862, was a colonel in
                                        the Confederate cavalry, heading a unit dispatched for scouting. He was known
                                        for his daring raids, which in 
                                            Kentucky
                                         in 1862 were creating havoc for the Union troops. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 566. The term "bosh"
                                        or "bosh" is confusing. Whichever way Clark meant to write it,
                                        he is probably already aware that much of what he hears regarding troop strength
                                        and movement—whether Union or Confederate—is rumor and is
                                        suggesting that he and his comrades regard it as such.
                        
                        
                        This is the finest Country that I ever saw. Hills and valleys and corn as big as
                                    Saplings. All right, we are not hearing any news from home, but I do not [know] why.
                                    I am writing on the wreck of an Ambulance that was partly burned by Morgan.19 He destroyed $15,000 worth of property here with
                                    200 wagons. Well I must quit as we must march again. Show this to the friends. Write
                                    and tell the boys to write. My time to write is but little. We will have work to do.
                                    But write once a week if you can and excuse me for not writing sooner.
                        Address, Wm. A. Clark, Co. K. 72—Reg. Ind. Vol. Care of Capt. Collins
                        George write no more At present
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Shepherdsville, Ky.
                              22 miles from 
                                    Louisville
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sept. 20th ‘62
                                
                        Dear Father,
                        I take this oportunity to write you a few lines. I received a letter from George
                                    about 5 minutes ago and one from I. N. at the same time. I was glad to hear from
                                    home but it was painful to hear of the death of Alvin and Julia.20
                        
                        I am in good health and am fat and dirty. I weigh 164 pounds. I have been on picket
                                    guard most of the time. It is a dangerous place but it is free from the vices and
                                    Confusion of the Camp.
                        We left the Junction [
                                        Lebanon
                                     Junction, 
                                        Kentucky
                                    ] on the 17th and we thought we going to 
                                        Louisville
                                     but after crossing Salt River, we came to a halt.
                                    The bridge here across the River was burnt about 2 weeks ago by Morgan. It is about
                                    repaired. It is reprted that the Rebels have taken Munfordsville 40 miles below
                                    here. There were about 4,000 of our troops there supposed to be taken prisoners.21 The enemy have taken possession of the breast works which we
                                    built at 
                                        Lebanon
                                     Junction. We know not how soon we will leave here. I must be careful
                                    about writing anything Contraband.22
                        
                        
                           
                              19 In 1862 the ambulance was probably a two-wheeled
                                        horse-drawn cart. Later the Union Army adopted a four-wheeled cart that was
                                        safer. Faust, Historical Times Illustrated Encyclopedia, 9-10.
                           
                              20 Perhaps Clark refers to his brother Jonas and Margaret
                                        Clark' son Alvin Alonzo Clark, born December 18, 1861. Julia was
                                        probably the infant daughter of Clark' brother Stephen S. and Mary Jane
                                        Ayers Clark. Claybaugh, History of 
                                                Clinton County
                                            
                              , 692.
                           
                              21 Following three days of assault, Confederate General
                                        Braxton Bragg occupied Munfordville, 
                                            Kentucky
                                        , on September 17, 1862, when Union Colonel John Thomas Wilder from
                                        Indiana surrendered control of the garrison and his force of over 4,000 troops.
                                        On September 21, 1862, Union troops retook Munfordville. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 575; Robert E. Denney, The Civil
                                            War Years: A Day-by-Day Chronicle of the Life of a Nation (
                                            New York
                                        , 1992), 214, 217. For a detailed account of the movements and
                                        engagements of the 72nd Indiana Infantry Regiment from enlistment until the end
                                        of the war, see Benjamin F. McGee, History of the 72d Indiana
                                            Volunteer Infantry of the Mounted Lightning Brigade, ed. William R.
                                        Jewell (
                                            Lafayette
                                        , Ind., 1882). This regimental history describes much more fully
                                        than does Clark all the military actions of Company K.
                           
                              22 Probably warned by the officers not to write about any
                                        troop positions or movements in his letters, Clark is following orders. Union
                                        officers worried that the
                        
                        
                        We have not pitched our tents here yet but will this after noon. I was out down the
                                    River road last night about 2 miles from Camp on picket. Our position was in the
                                    woods. One of our boys went away with the Officer of the day. About Sundown the boy
                                    went to town. The Officer to another Station. About 10 o clock the boy was coming
                                    back and the Officer also. They came to gether at a gate which the officer had been
                                    to. There was some words passed and the boy prepared to shoot the officer then ran
                                    to camp and raised the camp. Got a company to go with him to the spot and came to
                                    us. I was on the post at the time they came. They enquired into the matter, took the
                                    boy and I donot [know] what will be the end. His name was Ira Cue. This is a
                                    specimen of the adventures which we have every day.
                        The boys from Clinton are all well now. We have plenty of peaches. Well I must quit
                                    as it is 12 o clock and I want to wash my clothes this morning. It was new work for
                                    me. Write often and give all the neighborhood news. Well mother I have read a
                                    Chapter in the testament every day. Address the same as before.
                        
                                    yours truly,
                                    William A. Clark
                                    
                              Co. K 72nd Regt. Ind. Vol
                              care of Capt. Collins
                              Dumont' Brigade23
                              
                           
                                
                        P. S.vI sent my clothes to Cloes on Reed' place.24
                                    You can get them there. Send me some postage stamps.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Louisville
                                 , Ky.
                           
                                    Oct. 5th, 1862
                                
                        Father,
                        It is with pleasure that I take time to write you a few lines in answer to yours of
                                    the 26th of Sept. I got it to day, the only one for 2 weeks.
                        I am well at this time except sore feet. We left here Oct. 1st and went to within 1/2
                                    mile of Elizabeth town [
                                        Kentucky
                                    ]. Was there 2 hours then started back here and got here this noon. We
                                    marched 100 miles, 15 of them this fore noon, so you may know how I feel. 
                              mail might be captured and the Confederate Army could learn valuable
                                            information. In later letters, after Union Army victories, Clark reports
                                            more details about his positions and movements.
                              
                                 23 In September-November, 1862, Brigadier General
                                            Ebenezer Dumont of Indiana commanded the 12th Division of the Union Army of
                                            the 
                                                Ohio
                                            , of which the 72nd Indiana was a part. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 251.
                              
                                 24 Both William P. Reed and John L. Cloe were 
                                                Clinton County
                                             soldiers who served in Company K of the 72nd Indiana Infantry.
                                            Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, VI, 179. In all
                                            likelihood the Cloe family resided on a farm owned by the Reeds. In part
                                            because of the uncertainty of the mails and the cost of mailing, Clark
                                            frequently sent articles home in other soldiers' boxes or with
                                            visitors to the camp who were heading home to Indiana.
                           
                                     I must make this letter short as we are to be
                                    ready to march at 5 oclock this P. M., and it is now 3. We are to go to 
                                        Bardstown
                                     [
                                        Kentucky
                                    ], on foot of course.
                        The rest of the Boys are well except L. Cloe who is at the Hospital. This is the
                                    Sabbath Day but there is not much respect payed to it. I have heard three Sermons in
                                    the Army and there was nothing but war and Bloodshed in them. I do think the
                                    prospect of peace is very flatering yet. But we do not hear much news.25
                        
                        You must excuse me if I make this short for I cant call my thoughts together, perhaps
                                    on account of being fatigued. I was not under a tent while we were gone last night.
                                    My feet got cold and it is settled on my lungs so that I am hoarse.
                        It is reported that they are fighting at 
                                        Bardstown
                                    . Bragg is there with his army.26
                        
                        Well now for something else. Doctor Brown is as tough a Soldier as any of us. But A.
                                    Seile is the life of our Bunk. Him and W. Reed, S. Hefner, E. Choat, G. W. Brown, O.
                                    S. Heichert, I. Davis, A. B. Gaskill, W. Frazer, Wm. Hendrickson, and Amos 
                                        Brown
                                     are in our mess. Billy Grismer is our Drummer. He is a fast Boy.27
                        
                        I think that you folks had Better quit Politics if you cant get better men than
                                    Pettit and Orth.28 We have no politics here. But too 
                              
                                 25 In order to suppress reports of troop movements and
                                            battles, certain generals attempted to bar newspapers and reporters from
                                            camps. At this point in the war Union officers may also have wanted to
                                            prevent soldiers from becoming disheartened by Confederate victories. Faust,
                                                Historical Times Illustrated Encyclopedia, 122-23.
                              
                                 26 Early in October, 1862, 
                                    Bardstown, Kentucky
                                 , was the scene of minor skirmishes
                                            resulting from Bragg' invasion of 
                                                Kentucky
                                            . By the time Clark reached 
                                                Bardstown
                                             on October 6, Bragg had left. The town was then occupied by
                                            northern forces under Major General Don Carlos Buell. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 43, 79-80, 96-97; John S. Bowman, ed., Civil War Almanac (
                                                New York
                                            , 1982), 115-16.
                              
                                 27 Albert G. Sale, William P. Reed, Samuel H. Heffner,
                                            Erasmus M. Choate, George W. Brown, Ansell B. Gaskill, William W. Fraser,
                                            William F. Hendrickson, Amos G. Brown, and William Griesmar are all 
                                                Clinton County
                                             soldiers serving in Company K of the 72nd Indiana. Also in
                                            Company K are a James and a Joseph Davis and a Henry O. Herchert, who might
                                            have been the I. Davis and O. S. Heichart to whom Clark refers. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, VI, 179, II, 671. Doctor
                                            Brown is also called G. W. Brown or George 
                                                Brown
                                             in later letters, and Billy Griss-mer becomes William Grissmer
                                            or Will Grissmer in letters written one year later. Although 
                                                Brown
                                             had studied medicine prior to the Civil War, he enlisted in the
                                            72nd Indiana as a private and was later promoted to first lieutenant, then
                                            captain, of Company K. He is not listed in the adjutant general'
                                            report as a physician although Clark notes in a later letter that Brown has
                                            been promoted to assistant surgeon. After the war 
                                                Brown
                                             graduated from Rush Medical College, 
                                                Chicago
                                            , and practiced in 
                                                Frankfort
                                             for many years. Claybaugh, History of 
                                                    Clinton County
                                                
                                 , 211, 398-99. Company K' first musician
                                            deserted two weeks after he was mustered into service; the second was
                                            discharged in September, 1862. Griesmar was apparently their replacement
                                            although he is not so listed in the adjutant general' report.
                              
                                 28 Godlove S. Orth and John Pettit, both of 
                                                Tippecanoe County
                                            , were long-time prominent political figures in
                                            Indiana' Eighth Congressional District of which 
                                                Clinton County
                                             was a part. Orth had been a Whig before joining the Republican
                                            party; Pettit was a Democrat. Both served in the Indiana General Assembly
                                            and in the 
                                                United States
                                             House of Representatives; both held numerous other local,
                                            state, and
                           
                                     much Abolitionism. But I have seen slavery in
                                    fact, and it is not so Bad as you might suppose.29
                        
                        Well I must quit as it is getting late. Give my love to all enquiring friends and
                                    Believe me your undutiful but affectionate son,
                        
                                    Wm. A. Clark
                                    
                              Co. K 72 Regt.
                              Ind. Vol.
                              Care of Capt. H. B. Collins
                              via 
                                    Louisville
                                 
                              
                           
                                
                        Well George, you must eat some Apples for me. Well Mother, I eat some Roast
                                    Chicken and sweet cake that was made in Ind. and sent to our second Lieut. By his
                                        mother.30 You must write oftener, and send stamps for me to
                                    send answers to you.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Frankfort
                                 , Ky.
                           
                                    Oct. 13th 1862
                                
                        Dear Father,
                        I take this oportunity to write you a few lines to let you know that I am well and so
                                    is the Rest except Cloe, and W. P. Reed.
                        We left 
                                        Louisville
                                     one week ago to day, march 17 miles to 
                                        Shelbyville
                                     [
                                        Kentucky
                                    ], mistake. The second day, we got there. It is the 
                              national offices. Orth was elected in October, 1862, for the first of his
                                            three successive terms in Congress; John Pettit had served in the House from
                                            1843 to 1849. Clark might also have been referring to John Upfold Pettit
                                            from 
                                                Wabash County
                                             in the adjacent Eleventh Congressional District. A prominent
                                            political figure in northern Indiana, John U. Pettit was a Democrat who had
                                            become a Republican after 1854. During his long career he, too, held
                                            numerous elective and appointive local, state, and national positions
                                            including that of 
                                                United States
                                             congressman from 1855 to 1861. Biographical
                                                Directory of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Congress, 1774-1989. … (Bicentennial
                                            edition, 
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C., 1989), 1594, 1639; A Biographical Directory
                                                of the Indiana General Assembly; Vol. I, 1816-1899 (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1980), 300, 313.
                              
                                 29 In 1850 Indiana had more residents of southern
                                            origin than any state in the Old Northwest, a situation that had not changed
                                            appreciably by the time of the Civil War. Many of these southern-born
                                            Hoosiers had left the South to escape competition with the large
                                            slaveholding plantations; and they feared the economic, as well as the
                                            social, results of a large influx of free blacks to Indiana. Article XIII of
                                            the state Constitution of 1851 forbade Negroes and mulattoes to come into or
                                            settle in the Hoosier state and severely restricted those already residing
                                            there. Although many Hoosiers by the time of the Civil War were increasingly
                                            uneasy about slavery as an institution and many, perhaps most, believed that
                                            slavery should not be extended, most also believed in the inferiority of the
                                            black race. Very few Hoosiers could be termed abolitionists: freedom,
                                            suffrage, and equality for blacks were not acceptable issues. As one county
                                            history succinctly put it, "
                                                Clinton county
                                            ' [excellent] record in the Civil war was not due to
                                            any especial devotion to the negro." Claybaugh, History of 
                                                Clinton County
                                            , 178. Clark voices many of these opinions in his letters, but
                                            his belief in blacks' inferiority does not stand in the way of his
                                            faith in the Union and the Union' preservation. He is an advocate
                                            of states' rights but not of secession. For a discussion of
                                            Hoosiers' opinions on slavery, abolition, and African Americans
                                            prior to and during the Civil War, see Morton M. Rosenberg and Dennis V.
                                            McClurg, The Politics of Pro-Slavery Sentiment in Indiana,
                                                1816-1861 (
                                                Muncie
                                            , Ind., 1968); Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro in
                                                Indiana: A Study of a Minority (Indiana Historical Collections,
                                            Vol. XXXVII; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1957); James H. Madison, The Indiana Way: A State
                                                History (
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Ind., 1986), 169-73, 193-205.
                              
                                 30 James H. Whitcomb, whose residence is listed as 
                                                Lafayette
                                            , was the second lieutenant of Company K in October of 1862.
                                            Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 672.
                           
                                     county seat of 
                                        Shelby
                                     Co., a fine town as Big as Delphi [Indiana]. It is 32 miles from 
                                        Louisville
                                     and 22 miles from here. This is a nice City as large as 
                                        Lafayette
                                     [Indiana] and oh what splendid country.31 No wonder
                                    that D. Boone was charmed with it. I was at his tomb. It is on the spot that he
                                    stood on when he first viewed the Ky. River. I send a piece of
                                    cedar wood that came from the stump around his grave.
                        We have been out 20 miles toward Nicolasville [Nicholasville, Kentuckyl and got back
                                    today. We were gone 3 days, walking 40 miles. We went through Versayles
                                            [
                              Versailles, Kentucky
                           ], a country town where
                                    we bound 200 Rebels which we took and paroled." They were from 
                                        Tennessee
                                    , and 
                                        Georgia
                                    .
                        We laid in the rain last night and rain such as you dont see in Ind. We got wet
                                    through but I am dry now, all But my Blanket.
                        I received a letter from you to day, one from L. Mohler and one from No. 1 all right.
                                    I have wrote three letters to Hanah Jane and have got nary Answer, curious.33 Well George, be a good Boy and dont go to war. Write to me
                                    often as there is nothing like reading a letter from Clinton. I would have wrote
                                    oftener but we are under marching orders most of the time. There is talk of
                                    Compromise but I think it is not true yet. Get yours and mother' picture
                                    and send them to me. All the boys have their parents likenesses. Well Mother, I am
                                    trying to be a good Boy But fail sometimes. Goodbye for this time. Write often and
                                    Direct [to] the only weare [weary] in Granger' Brigade,34
                        
                        
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Frankfort
                                 , Ky.
                           
                                    Oct. 15th ‘62
                                
                        Dear Father,
                        I again try the only pleasure of camp life, writing. I am well. So is all the boys in
                                    camp. There is some of them at the hospital. I received Nine letters yesterday, 4 in
                                    the morning, and 5 at night. So it seems I am not forgotten in the Hoosier state.
                        We have not had preaching in camp for 2 weeks, the chaplain being at home. He is back
                                    now. There will be meeting to night. But it is (sad to say) abolition. Mother said
                                    she was afraid I would turn 
                              
                                 31 According to the federal census of 1860, the
                                            population of 
                                    Shelbyville,
                                                    Kentucky
                                 , was
                                            811, that of Delphi, Indiana, 1,395. 
                                    Frankfort, Kentucky
                                 , contained 3,702 people, 
                                                Lafayette
                                            , Indiana, 9,387. U.S., Eighth Census, 1860;
                                            Vol. I, Population (reprinted., 1990), 183, 114, 123, 126.
                              
                                 32 Paroled prisoners who gave their word not to return
                                            to fighting until exchanged for Union prisoners were often set free on their
                                            own recognizance. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 620.
                              
                                 33 L. Mohler was possibly Henry Mohler'
                                            father, a neighbor of the Clarks. A. W. Bowen and Co., pub., A
                                                Portrait and Biographical Record of 
                                                    Boone
                                                 and 
                                                    Clinton Counties
                                                , Ind. … (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1895), 809. Neither "No. 1" nor Hanah Jane
                                            have been identified.
                              
                                 34 Union Brigadier General Gordon Granger commanded
                                            the Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                             in 
                                                Kentucky
                                             in October, 1862. Boatner, Civil War
                                            Dictionary, 352.
                           
                                     to an Abolitionist. If I had been one at home, I
                                    have seen enough to make me a Negro hater since I came here. We was down to
                                    Versailes last Sabbath, took 251 prisoners and lots of Niggers. They got to ride
                                    when we came back and we walked with 56 lbs on our Backs, so much for being white.
                                    We were cheered by the Blacks and pointed at by the whites. It makes my
                                        Blood Boil to think of it.
                        
                        You will please send me plenty of postage stamps and keep an account of them and take
                                    it out of my money when we draw our pay. I will express it home. I have 12 letters
                                    that are not answered and I have not the stamps. Cant get them, and I dont like to
                                    have the capt. frank one and have my friends pay for it before they can get it.35
                        
                        Bragg is reported whiped.36 A. F. drafted, sad to hear it.37 I will be home as soon as I can, but I am satisfied. Yet.
                                    Pray for me, and, for the Union as it was, with the Black in the South or nowhere.
                        
                                    Write often,
                                    William A. D. C. C.38
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Lost River near Bowling Green, Ky.
                           
                                    Nov. 6th, ‘62
                                
                        Dear Father,
                        I once more attempt to give you a description of Soldier life. I am well but tired.
                                    We came here yesterday. We have been on the march for 10 days, marching in that
                                    time, 150 miles. We had Snow at 
                                        Frankfort
                                     the 25th, 4 in. deep. We started that morning.
                        We did not get any mail from the time we started till yesterday. I got 7, 2 from
                                    Mohlers, 1 from home, 1 from I. N., 1 from Alma 
                                        Jordan
                                    , and from A. F.39 All of them were well.
                        We have not heard from the seat of war for 10 days. I expect my next will be wrote at 
                                        Nashville
                                    . We will leave here to morrow, so 
                              
                                 35 Franking a letter meant that it was sent with the
                                            company commander' approval, postage due on receipt. Most of
                                            Clark' letters end with pleas for stamps. His parents did send him
                                            some, but because Clark was an avid letter writer, he soon used up his
                                            supply.
                              
                                 36 On October 8, 1862, a portion of Buell'
                                            Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                             clashed with part of Bragg' forces at
                                                    
                                    Perryville, Kentucky
                                 . Although heavy
                                            fighting ensued, neither side had its total force in action at any one time,
                                            and Bragg was able to disengage and withdraw into eastern 
                                                Tennessee
                                            , thus ending his invasion of 
                                                Kentucky
                                            . Although Perryville was not considered a significant victory
                                            for the North, Confederate casualties were proportionately greater than the
                                            Union losses, and the South did not again attempt a major invasion of the
                                            Bluegrass state. Denney, Civil War Years, 224; Boatner,
                                                Civil War Dictionary, 644.
                              
                                 37 Clark refers to his brother Augustus F. Clark who
                                            he has heard has been conscripted, apparently under the state'
                                            first draft on October 6, 1862. If the information was indeed correct,
                                            Augustus either supplied a substitute, as was acceptable, or was exempted
                                            for some other reason. No evidence has been found to indicate that he ever
                                            served. For a more complete discussion of early conscription in Indiana see
                                            page 81, note 4 above.
                              
                                 38 No explanation for this version of Clark'
                                            signature has been found. He does not sign his name in this fashion in
                                            subsequent correspondence.
                              
                                 39 Alma 
                                                Jordan
                                             is William Allen Clark' cousin. Her father was Charles 
                                                Jordan
                                            , and she and her family lived in 
                                                Kansas
                                            . Her younger sister, Jennie Clark 
                                                Jordan
                                            , also writes Clark.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              A FRANKED ENVELOPE FROM ONE OF WILLIAM ALLEN CLARK' LETTERS TO HIS FATHER, PROBABLY SENT IN THE SPRING OF 1863
                              Courtesy Mary E. Voss
                            they say. We supposed we would get paid here but I doubt it. I have come
                                    to the conclusion that we will get to stay in the service 3 years, and during the
                                    war if it lasts longher, they say that we are bound to stay till the war is over. I
                                    hope that the change wrought by the Democracy will shorten the contest of
                                        Bloodshed.40
                        
                        There is an awful destruction of property here. There is not a fince along the pike
                                    between here and Green River, a Distance of 40 miles through
                                    the Best country in the State. There is no flouring mill within 30 miles of here.
                                    They have been Burnt by the Secesh. A five ounce loaf of Bread sells for 20 cents,
                                    pies for a 1/4 of $. But we have plenty of pork and crackers with out
                                    spending our money. George Brown has been promoted to assitant Surgeon. He gets
                                    128$ per month, good pay, but the private has the best times.41
                        
                        
                           
                              40 In the off-year elections of 1862 Democrats made
                                        significant gains in both national and state contests. In Indiana the Democratic
                                        candidates for all state offices were elected; seven of the eleven 
                                            United States
                                         congressional districts were won by Democrats; and the Democracy
                                        controlled both houses of the General Assembly by substantial margns.
                                        Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 122. Rather than
                                        shortening the war as Clark hoped, the Democratic victories brought increased
                                        charges of treason, abolition, war mongering, and cowardice. The acrimonious
                                        debates in the Indiana General Assembly and the resulting breakdown in
                                        constitutional government caused one early historian to term the legislature of
                                        1863 "the most unworthy General Assembly ever convened in the
                                        State' history." Logan Esarey, A History of
                                            Indiana (2 vols., 1915, 1918; reprint ed., 2 vols. in 1, 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1970), II, 678.
                           
                              41 Union privates were paid $13.00 per month
                                        until after June 20, 1864, when they were raised to $16.00. Boatner,
                                            Civil War Dictionary, 624.
                        
                        
                        Mother, I want you to send me a small Needle and thread wallet. Make it 8 inches
                                    wide, a foot long with 4 pockets in it with them open toward the top. Make it with
                                    oil cloth on the out side & a good strap around it, so I can carry it in my
                                    pocket. Make it to fold up nearly square. Put in some needles, pins, the needles
                                    large enough to use patent thread. Send some strong white thread. The postage will
                                    be 12 or 15 cts. Be sure to send it.42 Write every week. I will
                                    not get to write often as we will be moving most of the time. Dont forget to send
                                    stamps. I will get my letters to Relations franked but to others it would be to
                                    funny.
                        
                                    Your affectionate son,
                                    Wm. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Mill Cave, Bowling Green, Ky.
                           
                                    November 9th 1862
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        Once more I try to answer a letter from home. I rec. a letter from you last night
                                    with (5) (five) Postage Stamps in it, and you had Better think they was gladly
                                    Received. This is the first Sabbath Day that we have been in camp since I left home. It is a Beautiful morning. It makes one feel like being at
                                    home. O, I will be glad when this matter is settled, so that we will again Return to
                                    a civilized Community. To day at One oclock it will be three months since I
                                    volunteered. It has been short to me. But I fear it was a long time at home and I
                                    fear it will be three times three months Before Peace with all its blessings will be
                                    proclaimed.
                        My health is good. You would hardly know me I am so fat, dirty and Beardy. We had the
                                    best Breakfast this morning that we had in 
                                        Kentucky
                                    . It consisted of fried Beef, Strong Coffee, Sugar, Burnt Rice, and
                                    moldy Crackers. How would you Rellish it?
                        Well mother, don't forget that concern to carry needles and thread in and
                                    put in some pants Buttons. Do it up in thick paper and it will cost about 15 cts.
                                    postage. Please send it soon.
                        Tell the boys to write, and not be always waiting for me. I can't write all
                                    the time. We have to drill eight hours each day when we are in camp, so that time is
                                    precious. I have 7 or 8 letters now that I have not had time to answer or stamps to
                                    send them with, but the stamps you sent will make it pretty near right. But keep
                                    sending them and I will be glad. I must quit or get some paper.
                        
                                    your kind son,
                                    Wm. A. Clark
                                    
                              72 Dumontts Divis
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Scottsville, Ky.
                           
                                    November 16th 62
                                
                        Dear Father,
                        This pleasant Sabbath morning I will attempt to give you the incidents of the past
                                    week. We left Mill Cave last Tuesday morning, 
                              
                                 42 Clark later refers to this wallet as a
                                            "concern." Soldiers also called it a
                                            "house-wife." Julia Henderson Levering, Historic Indiana (
                                                New York
                                            , 1909), 302.
                           
                                     and was two days coming to this place, 26 miles.
                                    Our teams were sent back for provisions the night that we arrived here and I was
                                    detailed to go with our team as a guard. There was 100 of us allto-gether. We went
                                    10 miles and staid there two days on half Rations. I went to a house close by and
                                    got one meal for 10 cts.43 It Rather made me think of old times.
                                    I am guarding Gen. Dumont' Quarters to day. I will get to eat my dinner
                                    with him to day. But I Supose you dont envy my position.
                        Oh, yes, I am well and Saucy as ever. But the rest of our Co. cannot all say so.
                                    There is (7) Seven in my Bunk sick and 35 in the Company. 30 of them have the
                                    Jaundice, so we have a slow time. I am on guard or cooking all the time. Three of
                                    the Company have the measles.44
                        
                        I have not got any letters for a week save one from Billy Miller this A. M. We are
                                    not on the R. Road now so we onnly get our mail twice a week and the Colonel say the
                                    Regt will stay here till the Jaundice is played out. I flatter my self that I will
                                    not get it, my health having been good so long.
                        But if I should get it and have to go to the Hospital, I will let you know because
                                    the Boys that have been there dont give it a very good name.45
                        
                        We was to get our pay every two months. It is now 3 months and no pay yet, but when
                                    it does come there will more of it. We will not get it till the last of December.
                                    Cant you manage to come down and hunt us up about that time. We will let you have
                                    plety of Crackers and money to take home.46
                        
                        Well it is time for me to go to my post, so no more at present. You must write
                                    oftener. My writing is about played out. Paper is so hard to get. Give my love to
                                    all who wants it and believe me your[r]
                        
                           
                              43 In addition to foraging, soldiers often went to
                                        neighboring houses for meals. If the residents were agreeable, meals could be
                                        purchased. Foraging was often called the army' "euphemism for
                                        stealing," and Clark, a farmer' son who was raised on
                                        Christian ethics, apparently preferred paying for a meal rather than
                                        confiscating animals and food. William C. Davis, ed., The Image of
                                            War, 1861-1865; Vol. II, The Guns of ‘62 (
                                            Garden City
                                        , N.Y., 1982), 176.
                           
                              44 Clark is probably referring to a loss of appetite,
                                        weakness, and constipation. There were 77,236 cases of endemic and epidemic
                                        jaundice with 414 deaths during the Civil War. Measles were prevalent because
                                        many soldiers coming from rural areas had not been exposed to the disease, and
                                        it plagued the army until the war' end, often delaying troop movements
                                        because of quarantines and numbers of men stricken. Steiner, Disease in the Civil War, 10, 12, 58, 69, passim.
                           
                           
                              45 More men lost their lives in the Civil War because of
                                        accidents and disease than because of battlefield deaths. Soldiers suffered from
                                        inadequate medical supplies, poor living conditions, a lack of healthful foods,
                                        and little medical knowledge of disease and how it spread. Men dreaded going to
                                        hospitals because they often got sicker there as a result of infection and
                                        unclean conditions. It has been estimated that Union and Confederate losses
                                        totaled 204,070 men killed or mortally wounded and that 308,755 died from
                                        disease and accident. Faust, Historical Times Illustrated
                                            Encyclopedia, 448.
                           
                              46 Soldiers were supposed to be paid every two months in
                                        the field, but they were fortunate if they received their money at four-month
                                        intervals. Occasionally, pay was delayed six to eight months. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 625.
                        
                        
                        
                        
                                    Affectionate though Undutiful Son,
                                    William Allen Clark
                                
                        Well, George, who are you going to Schooll to this winter? Tell me quick. Does
                                    your fingers get cold husking corn and I want to know a good many things. But heint
                                    [?] no time to ax Questions. I want to see some of your penmanship once in a while.
                                    I want you to have Spelling school the night after we get home.47
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  47 Community members of all ages participated in spelling schools, or
                        matches, which were usually held at the district schoolhouse in the evening and were as much
                        recreational as educational in purpose. For a description of a classic spelling match, see
                        Edward Eggleston, The Hoosier School-master: A Novel (1871; 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1984), 39-55. See also Claybaugh, History of 
                                Clinton County
                            
                  , 64-65.
            
            
            
               Courtesy Mary E. Voss.
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Scottsville, Ky.
                           
                                    Nov. 18th [1862]
                                
                        Dear Father,
                        It is with great pleasure that I take time to answer your letter dated Nov. 11th,
                                    which came to hand last night. I am glad to hear that all are well for we are having
                                    a sad time here. The health of the Regt. is improving. There has been nearly half of
                                    the Regt. down with the Jaundice. But it is nearly through. I have not had it. The
                                    Boys say that I look better every day. A. Sale, and L. Cloe are sick yet. William
                                    Reed is very sick, flighty most of the time. He has something like the lung fever,
                                    spits some Blood. Sam Hefner and George Herr have the measles. The Regt. is now on
                                    Batallion Drill, with 278 men. There is about 500 effective men in the Regt.
                        This is a poor country, lots of hills. There is 900 voters in this County. 300 of
                                    them is secesh. The corn crop is good. No wheat put  out. Wheat is worth 75 cts. a bushel, flour
                                    $5.00 per hundred, coffee 50 cts. per lb., sugar 20 [cents], potatoes 50
                                    cts. We are 7 miles from 
                                        Tennessee
                                    .
                        If the health of the Division dont get better we will be likely to stay here this
                                    winter. The Report here now is that the south have offered terms of Compromise.
                        I sent you a small piece of cedar from 
                                        Boone
                                    ' grave in a letter. Dont know what became of it. I have 3 or 4
                                    pieces yet in my Knapsack. I will send a small piece in this. If we stay here you
                                    must come down and try a few days of camp life. We had rainy weather for the last
                                    few days. Raining now.
                        The Captain is makeing out Wm. Reed' descriptive list so that if he should
                                    not live, his friends will get his pay and Bounty.48
                        
                        I get letters from you every week or nearly so, but I have not rec. any from Jonas or
                                    S. S. for a long time. Dont know why. The reason that I have no paper is because the
                                    Sutler is at Bowling Green and er [I] cant get paper of any Body else. He will be
                                    here next week.49 Write often as you can. I will do the same.
                        
                                    yours as ever,
                                    Wm. A. Clark
                                    
                              72nd Regt. Ind. Vol. Co. K. care of Capt. Collins
                              40th Brigade, 19th division, U. S.
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Tenn. Castillion Springs [Castalian Springs]
                           
                                    Dec. 9th 1862
                                
                        Affectionate Parents,
                        I will answer your letter of Nov. 28th, which I rec. a few days [ago], since it is
                                    four months since I left you or since I signed my freedom to Unkle Sam.
                        We have had some excitement within a few days. One Brigade of our Div. was stationed
                                    at Hartsville [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ], 9 miles east of 
                              
                                 48 Because Reed was considered seriously ill, the
                                            captain was probably preparing a list of his requests and belongings in case
                                            of death. Reed was discharged on February 2, 1863. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, VI, 179. Throughout the war
                                            federal, state, and local authorities offered bounties to encourage
                                            enlistments. The federal government paid from $25.00 to
                                            $400.00 depending on the time and length of enlistment. State and
                                            local organizations offered bounties in an effort to avoid conscription,
                                            which was usually considered a disgrace in the districts that had to resort
                                            to it. Estimates indicate that federal Civil War bounties totaled
                                            approximately $300,000,000 and that during the last two years of
                                            the war state and local payments probably equaled this amount. Federal
                                            bounties were paid over a period of time rather than in one lump sum.
                                            Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 74. According to the
                                            Indiana adjutant general' report, 
                                                Clinton County
                                             paid out an estimated $136,800 in bounties and Ross
                                            Township an additional $28,839 during the war. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I, Appendix, 77.
                              
                                 49 Given permission by the federal government to sell
                                            merchandise to the troops, sutlers followed the armies, peddling supplies
                                            such as paper, ink, newspapers, razors, etc. Although the article of war
                                            prescribed that "persons permitted to sutle shall supply the
                                            soldiers with good and wholesome provisions or other articles at a
                                            reasonable price," sutlers often gouged the troops, particularly as
                                            the war lengthened, by selling hard to find items at exorbitant prices.
                                            Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 822.
                           
                                     here. The Brigade consisted of the 106th
                                    & 108th 
                                        Ohio
                                     and 104th Ill. with 1 Section of Niclan' 19th Ind. Battery and
                                    a portion of the 2nd Ind. cavalry. Morgan attacked them, on the morning of the 7th,
                                    Sabbath of course. His command had 2500 men. It was a surprise. In 55 minutes our
                                    whole force surrendered. In the meantime we were marched to their relief. We march
                                    1/2 of the way in collum, then formed in the line of Battle and marched 5 miles over
                                    ditches, hills & fences. We got to the field of Battle 20 minutes after the
                                    Rebels left, to late as usual. We stacked our guns and buried the dead, took care of
                                    the wounded and gathered up the property. We buried 49 of our men and 14 secesh.
                                    Dont know the number of wounded. The men were all shot in the head or Breast. It was
                                    a bad sight men & horses in promiscuous confusion spred of [over] a 10 acre
                                    field. The enemy left a great many guns on the field in their haste to cross the
                                        [Cumberlandl River. We got to the River in time to see them
                                    on the other side. We shelled them and it is reported that several were killed.50 We are preparing for a fight now at this place. The Rebs are
                                    trying to get to the R. Road to cut off our supplies.
                        You must not get uneasy if you dont hear from me as often as you have. The mail is
                                    indolent, but you must write often. I rec. a letter from I. N. the day that I heard
                                    from you. They are well. I rec. one from Alma, lately. They were well. Her Brother
                                    is in the army.
                        I am getting dissatisfied with soldier life. It is to wicked. The one that were the
                                    strictest at home are the first to give way to temptation. There is nothing but evil
                                    to be seen but I must be content. Perhaps peace will shed its enchanting rays before
                                    long.
                        Wm. Reed started home with his father last week. Dont know how he succeeded. If he
                                    got home, let us know. My health is good except a slight attack of Diarhea, but hope it is nothing serious. We have not got our pay yet and will
                                    not while the Rebels are so close. If you have much money of the U. S. Currency on
                                    hand get gold for it is being largely counterfeited in the army, so the Officers
                                        say.51
                        
                        
                           
                              50 On December 7, 1862, John Hunt Morgan' cavalry
                                        attacked and resoundingly defeated Colonel A. B. Moore' garrison at
                                        Hartsville, 
                                            Tennessee
                                        . Union losses numbered over 2,000, with 1,800 of that number being
                                        taken prisoner. Denney, Civil War Years, 238-39. One early
                                        source estimates Morgan' troop size at 1,500; the casualties of the
                                        104th 
                                            Illinois
                                         at 44 men, with 105 wounded. The Union Army (8
                                        vols., 
                                            Madison
                                        , Wis., 1908), III, 200, 302. Captain Benjamin S. Nicklin commanded
                                        the 13th Indiana Battery not the 19th, and its losses were reported as two men
                                        and two guns. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, III,
                                        421. For an account of the Lightning Brigade' activities in 
                                            Kentucky
                                         during December, 1862, see Glenn W. Sunderland, Lightning at Hoover' Gap: The Story of Wilder'
                                        Brigade (
                                            New York
                                        , 1969), 21-23.
                           
                              51 Clark probably refers to non-interest-bearing
                                        government notes, or "greenbacks," paper currency issued by
                                        the federal government in 1862 to help finance the war. Not backed by gold and
                                        inherently inflationary, the greenbacks' value fluctuated with the
                                        fortunes of the Union Army. By midyear, 1862, greenbacks were worth only
                                        $.91 in gold. The currency remained popular, however, particularly
                                        among Westerners, and southern sympathizers in occupied territory willingly
                                        accepted it in lieu of the worthless Confederate currency. Faust, Historical Times Illustrated Encyclopedia, 323, 432-33.
                        
                        
                        George, I wish you would send me the Sabbath School Bell if you can share it. Is the
                                    sabbath school still going on?52
                        
                        Well, I must quit as it is time for me to go on guard, camp guard. As usual it is not
                                    much fun to stand 2 hours in the cold there on dark nights. Good bye for this time.
                                    Write soon and often.
                        
                                    your Son,
                                    Wm. A. Clark
                                
                        Ely Huff of our co is dead, died at Louisville.53
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Rossville Ind.
                           
                                    December 10th 1862
                                
                        Wm. A, Clark dear son,
                        I take pen in hand to inform you that we are well hoping this will find you in the
                                    enjoyment of the same blessing. We rec'd two letters from you last night,
                                    one for S. S. and one for self, being the first for nearly two weeks. Was glad to
                                    hear that you retain good health in the midst of so much sickness as we hear there
                                    is in the different camps. You complain of being forgotten at home. If you could
                                    know the feelings of a mother or father, you would not think so. You say you dont
                                    hear from home very often. Think the fault is not mine as I write and mail a letter
                                    once each week and send stamps in the most of them. You say you have peace reports
                                    in the army. We have nothing of the kind here except among abolitionists, who seem
                                    to think the first of january will produce a change in the minds of the rebels,
                                    which will make them lay down their arms and embrace the opportunity of saving their
                                    slaves, a thing very much to [be] doubted I think, but wish it may prove true.54
                        
                        
                           
                              52 Sabbath, or Sunday, schools were extremely popular in
                                        Indiana in the mid-nineteenth century. Developed originally to help provide
                                        general as well as religious education, the Sunday schools sometimes provided
                                        the only formal education a child received. Sunday schools appeared to decline
                                        during the Civil War but were soon revitalized after the conflict. Thornbrough,
                                            Indiana in the Civil War Era, 618-19; 
                                            Madison
                                        , Indiana Way, 186-87; Grover L. Hartman, A School for God' People: A History of the Sunday School
                                            Movement in Indiana (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1980), 32-38, 39-46; Hartman, "The Hoosier Sunday School:
                                        A Potent Religious/Cultural Force," Indiana Magazine of
                                            History, LXXVIII (September, 1982), 215-23. Clark is probably
                                        requesting a copy of the Sabbath School Bell, number 1 or 2,
                                        edited and compiled by Horace Waters. Published in 1859 and 1860, the volumes
                                        were collections of tunes and hymns arranged for singing and instrumental
                                        presentation. Original copies of both books were bound in green cloth with a
                                        gold-stamped title, the "Bell" of which was represented
                                        graphically.
                           
                              53 Eli Huff, listed as a private in Company K of the 72nd,
                                        died at 
                                 Louisville, Kentucky
                              , on December 4,
                                        1862. Huff was from 
                                            Clinton County
                                        . Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, VI,
                                        179.
                           
                              54 In September, 1862, Lincoln issued the preliminary
                                        Emancipation Proclamation declaring that in all states still in rebellion on
                                        January 1, 1863, slaves would be "then, thenceforward, and forever
                                        free." Issued as a war measure, the proclamation met with a mixed
                                        reaction in the North. Many soldiers, as well as civilians, felt that the war
                                        had been diverted from one to save the Union to one to free the slaves, a cause
                                        of which they did not approve and for which they were not disposed to fight.
                                        David C. Clark, an anti-abolitionist, obviously doubts the effectiveness of the
                                        measure. Eric Foner and John A. Garraty, eds., The Reader'
                                            Companion to American History (
                                            Boston
                                        , 1991), 351-52.
                        
                        
                        This morning looks almost like winter. Breaking up the ground is frozen hard enough
                                    to bear a train and loaded wagon any where here in this cold frozen region. The most
                                    of the farmers have taken their hogs to market. Prices of pork are low at present,
                                    being about $2.50 cts per 100 lb. We took ours to J. J. Perrin [?]
                                    yesterday. [He was] engaged some days ago at 312 1/2 cts per 100 gross, took nine
                                    hogs average weight 315 7/9 lb. per head. We have our corn all gathered.
                        George is going to school to Cob. [bob.?] at west point. Brumbaugh
                                    is director in this district. [He] employed a teacher without calling a meeting of
                                    the householders, so we go [to another school].55 We have
                                    nothing particular to write. You say you have only 55 men in your company sick, and
                                    well how many had you at first and what had become of them? Have they died or in
                                    hospital sick? We think sickness thins out your ranks more than battlefields.
                        Must close as mother and self are going to Rossville this afternoon. Mother sends a
                                    mothers love to you. Remember a mother' admonition to read your testament
                                    and practice its teachings as things that pertain to your eternal salvation. No more
                                    but say farewell.
                        
                                    Yours sincerely—
                                    D. C. Clark
                                
                        P. S. I herewith send some 3 or 4 postage stamps. The confederate script of
                                    which you spoke is not to be had here.56
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp on Bledsoe' Creek, Tenn.
                           
                                    Dec. 21st 1862
                                
                        Affectionate Father,
                        This Balmy Sabbath, I take the pleasant task of making my weekly Report to you. I
                                    have wrote to you each Sabbath since I left home except when marching.
                        
                           
                              55 In 1861 the civil township was the basic administrative
                                        unit and a single township trustee the chief administrator for the public
                                        schools in Indiana. Each township, however, was divided into districts according
                                        to the number of schools therein, and in each district locally elected directors
                                        served as a link between the trustee and patrons of the school. According to the
                                        law, directors were to preside over district meetings in which patrons could,
                                        among other things, designate the teacher they wanted hired; trustees were to
                                        accede to their mandate. Apparently, the director in the Clarks'
                                        district had ignored the law, and George had been sent to another school. John
                                        D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to
                                            Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                            New York
                                        , 1954), II, 124-26. West Point School was located approximately two
                                        miles south of Rossville on the north side of section 1 in Ross Township. It was
                                        probably adjacent to property owned by the Clarks. Joan C. Bohm, comp., 
                                 
                                                Clinton County
                                            , Indiana: History and Genealogical (
                                            Frankfort
                                        , Ind., 1989), 319.
                           
                              56 With only $27 million worth of specie in the
                                        Confederacy, the South from the beginning had difficulty in financing the war.
                                        Various loan plans failed, and the resort to paper money, or script, stimulated
                                        inflation, which reached, overall, approximately 6,000 percent. Foner and
                                        Garraty, Reader' Companion to American History, 211;
                                        Faust, Historical Times Illustrated Encyclopedia, 259.
                                        Although almost assuredly some of the worthless Confederate paper circulated in
                                        the southern river counties of Indiana, apparently it had not reached as far
                                        north as 
                                            Clinton County
                                         in 1862.
                        
                        
                        We have changed our front since my last. We are 9 miles further down the
                                        [Cumberland] River with a safer position. I have been on
                                    picket three times this week, am on picket now. We have guards placed 8 rods apart
                                    all round the camp. Night before last I laid on my Breast waching for spies from 6
                                    A. M. to 1 P. M. In the meantime the ground froze 9 inches deep, pretty cold
                                    Business. It was the coldest night we have yet had. The weather now is pleasant,
                                    some appearance of Rain.
                        We are camped on Col. Harlin' plantation. He has Eight Servants and not one
                                    can read, a sorry tale to tell of the effects of Slavery, and they are fit subject
                                    to flood the free states with, so intelligent, so industrious and such a transparent
                                    color. What you tinks [?] I am willing to let them remain in Bondage till the race
                                    becomes Octoroons, and by that time they will be competent to take charge of our
                                    economical Abolition, semi Barbarious, I or [what].
                        And so Burnside has displayed his talent and cast McCleland in the shade. I suppose
                                    he expects to conquer a piece or a peace. I know not which. It is hight time that
                                    our Generals are informed that the Rebs are not to be fooled with. I think that
                                    there is a good prospect for peace, in the course of two or three years.57
                        
                        We are waiting now for the Secesh to prepare another Fredericks burst at
                                    Murfreesborough, but perhaps I am to fast. I am not in a very good humor about this
                                    playing with equals and not let them get all the advantages?
                        My health is good. So is that of the rest. The two Brigades here are in good health.
                                    After New Year', I will number my letters to you. Then you can tell whether
                                    you get all or not. Please do the same, and be careful to direct in this form. It
                                    will make the letters come to me certain.
                        Mr. Wm. A. Clark
                        Co. K. 72nd Regt. Ind. Vol.
                        Care of Capt. H. B. Collins
                        12th Div. 40th Brig.
                        Army of the 
                                        Ohio
                                    
                        
                        
                           
                              57 General Ambrose Everett Burnside took over General
                                        George McClellan' Army of the Potomac in November of 1862. Burnside
                                        decided to move the army to a position where it could attack Confederate troops
                                        along the 
                                            Fredericksburg
                                        -Rich-mond Railroad, a disastrous plan that through delays and
                                        errors on Burnside' part led on December 13, 1862, to the bloody battle
                                        of 
                                            Fredericksburg
                                         where 12,700 Union soldiers were killed or wounded. Burnside later
                                        withdrew the army, took blame for the defeat, and was relieved of command.
                                        Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 107-108, 310-13.
                           
                              58 The pun on 
                                            Fredericksburg
                                        —Frederick' burst—shows
                                        Clark' wit, just as did his earlier sarcastic comment that Burnside was
                                        after a piece or a peace. The battle for which the Union troops were preparing
                                        at Murfreesboro, 
                                            Tennessee
                                        , occurred between December 30, 1862, and January 3, 1863, and was
                                        called Stones River. Deemed a tactical victory for the
                                        South, the battle from a strategic viewpoint was considered a Confederate
                                        failure since the Union army was not destroyed nor driven from the field.
                                        Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 803-808; Faust, Historical Times Illustrated Encyclopedia, 722-23. Clark may also be
                                        referring to the various Union commanders' overly cautious decisions
                                        and the delays that had turned possible federal victories into stalemates or
                                        defeats.
                        
                        
                        I rec. a letter from Frank 
                                        Hamilton
                                     that had Been to 
                                        Memphis
                                    .59 It was directed the same as you have been doing.
                        Well Mother, I am not as much of a War Boy as I was 4 months ago. But dont tell any
                                    Body. George, you may be thankful that you can go to school instead of having the
                                    school houses used as Hospitals. There is no schools here. You are sharp enough to
                                    learn, and dont waste your time. And if you never see me again, remember that my
                                    advice was never to throw away three years of the best of youthful life in hunting
                                    for men with intent to kill. No more at present. Write often as you can.
                        
                                    your Affectionate Son,
                                    Wm. A. Clark
                                
                        P. S. Postage stamps still in demand. No prospect of getting paid for some
                                    time.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  59 Frank Hamilton was probably Francis 
                            Hamilton
                        , a 
                            Clinton County
                         resident near to Clark in age. History of 
                                Clinton County
                            
                  , Indiana, 834-35.
            
            
            APPENDIX
            List of Family Members
            
               
                  David C. Clark (b. 1804)
                  Father
               
               
                  Mary M. Slifer Clark (b. December 10, 1803)
                  Mother
               
               
                  Elizabeth Clark (b. April 27, 1827)
                  Sister
               
               
                  Augustus F. Clark, A. F. (b. December 28, 1828)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Stephen S. Clark, S. S. (b. December 2, 1831)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Isaac Newton Clark, Newton, I. N. (b. October 13, 1833)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Eliza Jane Clark Cade (b. August 29, 1835)
                  Sister
               
               
                  Sam Cade
                  Brother-in-low
               
               
                  Jonas D. Clark, J. D. (b. September 12, 1837)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Tilghman A. H. Clark (b. July 12, 1840, died at 4 years)
                  Brother
               
               
                  David Austin Clark (b. May 24, 1844, died at 14 months)
                  Twin brother
               
               
                  William Allen Clark (b. May 24, 1844)
                  Brother
               
               
                  George W. Clark, Geo., G. W. (b. March 4, 1851)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Jonas P. Clark
                  Uncle
               
               
                  D. F. Clark
                  Uncle
               
               
                  Alma 
                                Jordan
                            
                  
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Jennie 
                                Jordan
                            
                  
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Andy Erehart
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Stephen Erehart
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Clark Rhodes
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Cosmas Rhodes
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Jane Stabler
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Luanne Stabler
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Mary Stabler
                  Cousin
               
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Jelly Roll, Bix, and Hoagy: Gennett Studios and the Birth of Recorded Jazz. By
                    Rick Kennedy. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1994. Pp. xx, 233. Illustrations, appendix, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            
               Jelly Roll, Bix, and Hoagy represents the first detailed account of Gennett
                    Records, a small 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, recording company that made monumental contributions to music history. It was
                    a company that sold millions of records in the early 1920s; a company whose catalogue included such
                    widely diverse items as marimba bands, Hawaiian bands, symphony orchestras, comedy recordings,
                    political speeches (including those of the Ku Klux Klan), and specialty discs; a company that was
                    singular in catering to both the segregated white and black record markets; a company whose growth
                    paralleled that of the emerging phenomena of jazz, rural blues, and country music—new
                    genres on the fringe of the music mainstream.
            This book is, however, much more than just a history of Gennett Records. It is, among other things,
                    an accounting of the beginnings of the American recording industry, exploring such events as Thomas
                    Edison' invention of the cylinder phonograph in 1877, Emil Berliner' development
                    of the gramophone, and the intriguing and often rancorous legal battles among early recording giants
                    Victor, 
                        Columbia
                    , and Edison which resulted in the declaration that the recording techniques controlled
                    by Victor were public domain. It is also a fascinating picture of a period when smaller phonograph
                    and record companies were generally divisions of manufacturers of furniture products, and the
                    merchandising of records was conducted by such businesses as Sears, Roebuck & Company and
                    the Kresge variety chain.
            For the jazz buff this book provides an interesting and insightful look at the recordings of some of
                    jazz' seminal figures and chronicles the debut recordings of such giants as the 
                        New Orleans
                     Rhythm Kings (NORK), King Oliver' Creole Jazz Band with Louis Armstrong, Earl
                    Hines with Lois Deppe' Orchestra, and Bix Beiderbecke and His Wolverine Orchestra. Its
                    well-written and informative chapters include "The Origins of Jazz Recording,"
                    "The 
                        New Orleans
                     Rhythm Kings," "King Oliver and His Legendary Creole Jazz
                    Band," "The Music of Jelly Roll Morton," "Bix and the
                    Wolverines," "Hoagy and Bix: Soulmates in Jazz," "Louis
                    Armstrong and the Red Onion Jazz Babies," "Just Passing Through,"
                    "Other Jazz Debuts in 
                        Richmond
                    , 1923-25," and a riveting chapter, "Jazz Hysteria in the Hoosier
                    State," that is particularly relevant to readers with a special interest in Indiana
                    history.
            
            
               KING OLIVER' CREOLE JAZZ BAND, 1923
               FROM LEFT: BABY DODDS, HONORE DUTREY, JOE
                            "KING" OLIVER, LOUTS ARMSTRONG, BILL, JOHNSON,
                            JHONNY DODDS, LILLIAN HARDIN ARMSTRONG
               
            
            
               CURTIS HITCH' HAPPY HARMONISTS RECORDING HOAGY CARMICHAEL' "Washboard BLUES," RICHMOND, INDIANA, 1925
               FROM LEFT: HASKELL SIMPSON MAY, HARRY WRIGHT, EARL, "BUDDY" MCDOWELL, ARNOLD HABBE, HOAGY CARMICHAL, CURTIS HIRCH, FRED ROLLISON
               
               Duncan P. Schiedt Collection
            
            
            A wonderful surprise to this reviewer was the chapter, "Rural Recordings in the Electronic
                    Era," that documents Gennett' recording activity in the genres of country music,
                    rural blues, and piano blues (boogie woogie). Of country music the author writes:
                    "Collectively, the thousands of titles issued on Gennett and its affiliated budget labels
                    contributed substantially to the massive body of old time records issued by a handful of record
                    companies in the late 1920s and early 1930s … [that] form the bedrock of today'
                    country music record industry" (pp. 151-52). This chapter also covers some of the
                    world' greatest blues singers who recorded at the Gennett Studios, including Jesse Crump,
                    Thomas A. Dorsey, Big Bill Broonzy, Sam Collins, Scrapper Blackwell, Leroy Carr, and Roosevelt
                    Sykes. Prophetically, blues great Charlie Patton recorded his first album there (6-14-29) and blues
                    giant Blind Lemon Jefferson his last album (8-24-29).
            
               Jelly Roll, Bix, and Hoagy is brilliantly written and highly recommended.
            DAVID N. BAKER is distinguished professor of music and
                    chairman of the Jazz Department, Indiana University School of Music, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
         
         
            
               Frank M. Hohenberger' Indiana Photographs. Edited by Cecil K. Byrd. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1993. Pp. 11441. Illustrations. Clothbound,
                    $35.00; paperbound, $19.95.)
            Photographic collections are often problematic for historians. While the images are often attractive,
                    they may be orphans with little or no documentation of the subject matter. Published collections of
                    unidentified photographs function only as nostalgia or as generalized portraits of life
                    "way back when." The more information the editor of a book of photographs can
                    provide the more valuable the images become to the historian without losing any appeal to readers
                    with less rigorous demands.
            Cecil K. Byrd has assembled a fine collection of photographs of life in southern Indiana during the
                    first half of the twentieth century. To produce this book Byrd worked for over a year with the
                    seventeen-thousand-plus photographs and negatives in the Hohenberger Manuscripts housed at the Lilly
                    Library at Indiana University. He edited the final selection of photographs down to 124. Then, using
                    Frank M. Hohenberger' notes and the identification information filed with the photographs,
                    he "went everywhere there was a photograph" that would be used in the book and
                    gathered more material for the captions. These captions give the photographs a historical value that
                    rivals their charm and nostalgic appeal. Byrd has enriched the viewers' enjoyment of these
                    photographs by placing them in the context of time and place.
            Frank M. Hohenberger was an excellent photographer with an apparent love of rural life and an eye for
                    detail. His photographs 
                    
                  THE OHIO RIVER FERRY THAT CROSSED BETWEEN
                                BRANDENBURG, KENTUCKY, AND MAUCKPORT, INDIANA, 1931
               
                    
                  VIEW FROM MONUMENT CIRCLE IN INDIANAPOLIS, LOOKING WEST ON MARKET STREET TOWARD THE STATE HOUSE, JANUARY 7, 1911
                  Frank M. Hohenberger collection Manuscripts Department, Lilly Library, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            
                  
               
                     were well documented, and for over twenty-five years he also
                    wrote a column, "Down in the Hills 0' 
                        Brown County
                    ," for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star. In addition, he wrote and published the monthly 
                        Nashville
                    
                    Observer from February, 1955, to February, 1957. These writings, as well as
                    Hohenberger' forty-year diary, provided Byrd with the basis for his research and
                    identification of the photographs.
            Readers with interests in material culture, rural life, and documentary photography will enjoy this
                    book. While many of Hohenberger' "character studies" border on the
                    quaint, a few of his portraits are outstanding. The portrait of 
                        Madison
                     blacksmith John Downey in particular rivals the work of German photographer August
                    Sander. The photographic reproduction is very good for simple halftones. Considering the number of
                    photographs and their detailed captions, this book would be useful to many readers with interests in
                    southern Indiana and twentieth-century rural life.
            BILL CARNER is photographic services manager at the
                    University of 
                        Louisville
                     Photographic Archives where he works with a number of documentary and historical
                    photograph collections. He lives on a farm outside of Corydon in 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana.
         
         
            
               Priceless Spirit: A History of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, 1841-1893. By M.
                    Georgia Costin. (Notre Dame, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press, 1994. Pp. xi, 268. Notes,
                    bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            If you think that all members of a Catholic religious community live a life of prayer, obedience, and
                    discipline, you will need to read this volume. Sister Mary 
                        Georgia
                     Costin, historian of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, covers the period from the founding
                    of her community in 
                        France
                     to the death of the Reverend Edward Sorin, the sisters' father superior and
                    the founder of nearby University of Notre Dame.
            The author valiantly seeks to rehabilitate Sorin by relating his real concern for the spiritual and
                    physical health of the sisters and his paternal gentleness with the truly troubled. She is only
                    partially successful, for her heavy reliance on the same letters and memoirs used by earlier
                    historians leads her to some of the traditional conclusions—Sorin was imperious,
                    demanding, impetuous, and unwilling to admit mistakes. She reports several telling incidents. He
                    publicly humiliated a sister who had gone to 
                        Detroit
                     for medical attention without his permission (he was in 
                        France
                     at the time). When his list of sisters ready for profession was submitted to the mother
                    general in 
                        France
                     for her approval, he quit as the sisters' father superior.
            Costin traces the rapid Americanization of her order. Holy Cross Sisters in 
                        France
                     were primarily engaged in domestic work and so were the first arrivals in America. Soon
                    they began to care  for orphans and the deaf and to instruct
                    young women. They taught the liberal subjects, music, needlework, and manners. By 1859 American
                    recruits (frequently of Irish ancestry) outnumbered the French-born sisters 144 to 32. They rapidly
                    responded to Indiana Governor Oliver P. Morton' call for nurses and staffed five military
                    hospitals during the Civil War. Sorin could view their separation from the motherhouse overseas as a
                    major step toward his freedom from outside control; but for the sisters in a predominately American
                    community with a midwestern apostolate, separation meant that their American leadership would be
                    better able to understand and react to American needs and conditions than French superiors who were
                    several weeks away by letter.
            Generally community histories gloss over the rough spots and stress the sanctity and wisdom of
                    founders and past leaders. Costin scrutinizes, evaluates, and corrects previous studies of community
                    personages, especially the biographies of Holy Cross founder the Reverend Basil Anthony Moreau and
                    the hastily researched lives of the community' general superiors written a half-century
                    ago. She questions the accuracy of memoirs, examines the community' pious myths, and
                    rattles skeletons (alcoholism, infidelity, pettiness, misunderstandings, jealousy, mental illness),
                    thereby reminding readers that religious remain subject to human frailties during their search for
                    godliness. Costin believes that she will be the last historian to recount the first fifty years of
                    her community' development. In her search for the "last word" she
                    fascinates readers with her sharp, critical look at the "priceless spirit" of her
                    community' pioneers. She shows that single-spaced quotations and superscripts do not
                    detract from the telling of an interesting, important, and honest story.
            JAMES J. DIVITA is professor of history, Marian College, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He recently published Workers’ Church: Centennial History of
                        the Catholic Parish of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary in West 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                (1994). He has been president of the Indiana Religious History Association
                    since 1987.
         
         
            
               Amish Style: Clothing, Home Furnishing, Toys, Dolls, and Quilts. By Kathleen
                    McLary. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1993. Pp. xvi, 104. Map, illustrations, figure,
                    bibliography. Clothbound, $39.95; paperbound, $24.95.)
            Northern Indiana is home to one of the country' major Amish communities. The Amish first
                    migrated to America in 1714, settling in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The need for land caused them to look westward. The country in and around 
                        LaGrange
                     and 
                        Elkhart counties
                     in Indiana was determined a good place to settle, and the first families moved to this
                    area in 1841.
            Religion is the basis of Amish life. It defines clothing, furnishings, toys, and more. But there are
                    differences in religious opinion  among the Amish, differences
                    which have led to variations in lifestyles. Some drive automobiles, others hold public office, still
                    others own businesses. Still, there are those who prescribe strictly to a life that excludes the
                    outside world. Even with differences in religious belief, the separate churches and the people live
                    in harmony.
            Quilts are an exception to the quiet ways of the Amish. Colorful expressions of life and nature, the
                    quilts are sought by individuals and museums alike, and approximately one-third of this book is
                    dedicated to them. More than forty photographs of quilts appear in the book, which also includes a
                    narrative on the crafts women who are responsible for design and construction. Kathleen McLary is to
                    be commended for encouraging the Indiana State Museum to acquire this excellent collection; the
                    museum is to be commended for listening to her. In fact, Amish Style: Clothing, Home
                        Furnishing, Toys, Dolls, and Quilts is in many ways an exhibition catalogue on the
                    museum' fine collection. Each chapter includes an introduction to the topic and excellent
                    photographs of objects in the museum collection or representative of Amish life.
            It is difficult to research and write about the Amish because they are a very private people. It is
                    even more difficult to photograph them because they respect the scriptural passage "Thou
                    shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven
                    above" (Exod. 20:4). In spite of these difficulties McLary has put together a book that
                    serves as a good introduction to some of the complex issues of Amish life. Those readers who are
                    interested in more than a glimpse, however, will want to consult other publications that delve more
                    deeply into Amish traditions, beliefs, and lifestyles.
            KATHLEEN STISO MULLINS is executive
                    director for the Northern Indiana Historical Society, which owns and operates the Northern Indiana
                    Center for History in 
                        South Bend
                    .
         
         
            
               Racial Politics and Urban Planning: Gary, Indiana, 1980-1989. By Robert A.
                    Catlin. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1993. Pp. viii, 241. Tables, figures, notes, index. $35.00.)
            Robert A. Catlin chaired the Department of Minority Studies at Indiana University Northwest, Gary,
                    from 1982 to 1987 and was an advisor to Mayor Richard G. Hatcher. The book deals mainly with those
                    years. It is purportedly a guidebook for "Type II" cities like
                    Gary—those with a black majority, with a black mayor, but without Fortune 500 corporate
                    headquarters, major universities, and large medical centers. (Type I cities have
                    "placebound" institutions requiring their white leaders to work with black elected
                    officials.)
            Catlin emphasizes the failure of leaders in the private and public sector to cooperate and both
                    parties‘ (mostly whites') jealousy and racism. Despite the perception of
                    Gary' high unemployment,  crime, and decayed
                    infrastructure, he insists that the city could be part of a renaissance similar to 
                        Newark
                    '. Racial Politics and Urban Planning deals mostly with Catlin' three
                    major city projects—preparing the first comprehensive plan in twenty years; leading
                    opposition to "Metrolake," an ill-fated plan to consolidate the northern three 
                        Lake County
                     townships into one metropolitan government; and chairing the Gary Airport Promotion and
                    Development Commission.
            Given Gary' distinctive history and Catlin' close ties to Hatcher, the novice
                    urbanist might wonder about the applicability of the author' findings to other cities.
                    Catlin insists that Gary punctures three myths—that blacks cannot manage or govern; that
                    political empowerment does not transfer to economic empowerment; and that whites will be fair to
                    blacks if it is in their self-interest. His material suggests a more complex story. Mayor
                    Hatcher' anti-business rhetoric and black militancy from 1967 to 1984 contributed to the
                    Gary business community' and the Post-Tribune' vehement
                    opposition to him. His successor' rhetoric differed, as did his experience with white
                    leadership. (The author lamely asserts that both men were right for their times: a more agreeable
                    black leader from the late 1960s to the early 1980s would have surrendered the interests of blacks
                    and had limited tenure.) Hatcher' pettiness left Gary airport interests without a pilot for
                    two years while the site of the third 
                        Chicago
                     airport was being decided. Catlin argues that the only universal solution for all three
                    hundred majority-black cities and urban places is massive federal and state funding. Yet the
                    experience of Gary, which received over $300 million in federal funding during the first
                    twelve Hatcher years, suggests that "projectitis" and highly partisan use of such
                    funds could follow.
            Historians will find this somewhat useful as a firsthand perspective but question the
                    author' analysis. Among the "external constraints" on urban planning and
                    development, U. S. Steel is depicted as having taken no active role in local civic life after 1934
                    when Democrats gained control of local government. Again, Catlin' evidence suggests a more
                    complicated story. The lack of a major institution of higher education in 
                        Lake County
                     may be explained by the presence until the early 1980s of high-paying industrial jobs
                    that made college attendance unappealing. Repeated charges of institutionalized white racism wear a
                    bit thin. And some key issues are neglected-for instance, the role of the black newspaper, Gary INFO, and Catlin' leaving Gary in 1987. Was this related to
                    Hatcher' defeat in the primary?
            Errors in fact, grammar, typography, and syntax also limit the book' appeal.
            DARREL E. BIGHAM is professor of history and director of
                    the Historic Southern Indiana Project at the University of Southern Indiana, 
                        Evansville
                    . He is currently writing a comparative history of urbanization in the lower
                        Ohio Valley.
         
         
         
            
               Away, I'm Bound Away: 
                            Virginia
                         and the Westward Movement. By David Hackett Fischer and James C. Kelly.
                    Catalogue of an exhibition at the 
                        Virginia
                     Historical Society, 
                        Richmond
                    , October 6, 1993-May 31, 1994. (
                        Richmond
                    : 
                        Virginia
                     Historical Society, 1993. Pp. iv, 274. Illustrations, notes, maps, tables. Paperbound,
                    $19.95.)
            This visually beautiful book is a significant extended historical essay and a descriptive checklist
                    for an exhibition that ran from October, 1993, through May, 1994, at the 
                        Virginia
                     Historical Society. The two-part volume begins with the David Hackett Fischer essay
                    followed by a longer cataloguing of the two hundred items that were on exhibit. In both parts
                    pictures and maps abound, complementing and enlivening the Fischer essay. The descriptive and
                    gemlike commentaries in the catalogue stand on their own as well as serve to enhance the historical
                    narrative. Altogether the sum is greater than the parts.
            Fischer has been a major contributor to American history for a generation. His Albion' Seed in 1989, the first of a series of five books intended to
                    "comprise a cultural history of the 
                        United States
                    " (p. vii), was a tour de force for American colonial cultural, social, and
                    economic history. Then came the extended essay in the volume under review, followed in 1994 by Paul Revere' Ride, which received high praise as a great story and as a
                    serious inquiry into the meaning of liberty during the American Revolution.
            With James C. Kelly, Fischer, in keeping with his grand plan in Albion'
                    Seed, has presented a major comment on the significance of the West in American history, always
                    from the special vantage point of 
                        Virginia
                    . His perspectives are noteworthy as they contrast with those of Frederick Jackson
                    Turner and the "new western historians." Furthermore, many, if not most of the
                    historians who have written about the American West, starting with Turner, have viewed American
                    history looking from west to east. Not so Fischer. Elaborating upon his discussions in Albion' Seed. Fischer begins his story in 
                  England, Scotland
               , and 
                        Ireland
                    , which, in addition to Europe, Africa, and the eastern woodlands of America, he sees as
                    the proper beginning points for the various and varied people of the American West. His treatment of
                    the seventeenth- and eighteenth-century internal migration patterns sets a cultural and political
                    stage for the great expansion of the nineteenth century.
            Fischer' view that a modified version of the germ theory best explains the nature of the
                    movement west shows that after 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana ranked highest among those northern states that became home for transplanted
                    Virginians. In the South only 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     outranked the Hoosier state. The treatment of the movement into Indiana is too brief,
                    but overall the essay does serve to embellish an already rich Indiana historiography on cultural and
                    demographic origins. For example, those readers of Oliver Johnson' 
                    
                  
                     
                                Virginia
                             Historical Society 
                        Richmond,
                                    Virginia
                     
                  
               
                    Home in the Woods should enjoy a classic favorite even more within the context of
                    this new essay.
            The 
                        Virginia
                     Historical Society is presently faced with the pleasant task of reprinting this book,
                    which is already out of print because of unexpected demand. A new edition with an altered format is
                    scheduled for the near future.
            GEORGE M. CURTIS III is professor of history, 
                        Hanover
                     College, 
                        Hanover
                    , Indiana, and with Harold Gill edited "A Virginian' First Views of 
                        Kentucky
                    : David Meade to Joseph Prentis, August 14, 1796," Register of the 
                            Kentucky
                         Historical Society, XC (Spring, 1992).
         
         
         
            
               WESTBOUND STAGECOACH ON THE NATIONAL ROAD AS IT EMERGES FROM HIGH
                            BRIDGE OVER POGR'E' RUN (at WASHINGTON STREET AND PRESENT
                            COLLEGE AVENUE) AND TRUMPETS ITS ARRIVAL IN INDIANAPOLIS
               
               Christian Shrader Collection. Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
               Into the Old Northwest: Journeys with Charles H. Titus, 1841-1846. Edited by
                    George P. Clark. (East Lansing: 
                        Michigan
                     State University Press, 1994. Pp. ix, 184. Map, illustrations, notes, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. $27.95.)
            Charles H. Titus was a pious Down-Easter who came to Indiana in 1841 to teach and to become one of
                    the earliest graduates of Indiana Asbury (now DePauw) University. He and his new wife then directed
                    the Male and Female Seminary at 
                        Madison
                    , only to leave in disappointment in the spring of' 1843. Whether they had ever
                    intended to grow up with the country is not revealed. But thereafter, before taking up a life as a
                    Methodist itinerant preacher in New 
                        England
                    , Titus traveled by railroad, stagecoach, canal boat, lake steamer, brigantine, and
                    canoe, circuitously from southern Indiana to the head of Lake Superior, on a visit to Methodist
                    mission stations among the Sioux and Chippewa. Titus edited his own journal of this expedition, and
                    it is this finally published travel account that forms the heart of this book.
            Titus' eye for detail and for the incongruous was positively Dickensian; his descriptions of
                    stagecoach and canal boat travel are certainly worthy of American Notes and its
                    author. Titus was generally sympathetic to the West and its development, though he clearly felt more
                    at home among New 
                        England
                     immigrants than he did among Hoosiers. He shared the anti-Catholicism of most
                    nineteenth-century  American Protestants and was repelled by the
                    visible Romanism at 
                        Detroit
                     and at backcountry missions. But his distaste for Native Americans was particularly
                    strong, revealed both through prejudice, in his account of General Josiah Harmar' defeat,
                    and from observation on Lake Superior. He concluded that missionary activity among Indians was
                    simply unnecessary and futile. Indeed he shared nothing of the Romantics’ enthusiasm for
                    unspoiled humans and unspoiled nature. "The roaring cascade, the lofty, craggy rocks, the
                    dense and almost impenetrable forest that still remained as nature had formed it, & the
                    natives of the wood that stood around me, all strove in vain to arrest my attention," he
                    wrote. "My thoughts were far away in the land of the Christian, where God is known
                    & worshiped, & the blessings of a civilized life abound (p. 119). Within a year of
                    writing this, Titus returned to the steady habits of New 
                        England
                    , where he remained the rest of his life.
            George P. Clark has done well to bring this account of Yankee perspectives on western life to light
                    and to provide it with extraordinarily complete annotation. It is a worthy addition to the honorable
                    genre of western travel literature.
            RODNEY O. DAVIS is Szold Distinguished Service Professor
                    of History, 
                        Knox
                     College, 
                  Galesburg, Illinois
               . He is coediting an edition of the
                    letters and interviews about Abraham Lincoln that were collected by William H. Herndon.
         
         
            
               The Pursuit of Public Power: Political Culture in 
                            Ohio
                        , 1787-1861. Edited by Jeffrey P. Brown and Andrew R. L. Cayton.
                            (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1994. Pp. xxvii, 246. Map, tables, notes, bibliographic essay,
                    index. Paperbound, $22.00.)
            This collection of twelve interesting essays describes and interprets the political history of 
                        Ohio
                     from its territorial stage through the antebellum years in relation to ideological,
                    economic, and social characteristics. The authors are experienced researchers and are carrying
                    forward major projects on the subjects they discuss. Not only do they contribute informative views
                    of this state but they provide models for study of other states in the region, in fact of the
                    nation.
            At the beginning of the nineteenth century when 
                        Ohio
                     entered the Union, its population was quite small, but each decennial census revealed
                    an amazing increase. New Englanders migrating into the state' northern counties and
                    southerners up from the Carolinas, 
                        Virginia
                    , and 
                        Kentucky
                     made for a mixture of people building a midwestern culture in many aspects.
            Early on, as the Federalist party disappeared, the dominant political persuasion was Jeffersonian
                    Republican, withal internal differences. And nearly everyone, it seemed, preferred a republican
                    label of some kind. Nevertheless, the catalyst of Jacksonianism restored a two-party system, Whigs
                    and Democrats; and like other  Americans, Ohioans divided at
                    election time on economic issues. Whigs called for an active government to provide internal
                    improvements, adequate financial institutions, and encouragement of industrial development.
                    Democrats wanted much the same things but would rely upon individualism with minimal governmental
                    intervention. The great movement of digging canals and constructing roads and railroads reflected a
                    Whig solution, as one of these essays demonstrates, while the craze of land buying followed a
                    Democratic formula with low prices and mass purchasing by actual settlers at public land offices.
                    Better than the early days of speculators getting hold of immense tracts, it was said. Another
                    essay, however, shows that individual settlers were also speculators and, as such, had a more
                    beneficial impact than once supposed. Overall, as many historians have pointed out, this was a
                    period of the market revolution, in which Buckeye citizens participated and by which their political
                    faith took shape.
            Increasingly, certainly by the early 1840s, sectional differences on slavery pushed economic issues
                    aside, a fact that had important effects upon party structure and behavior. The free-soil movement
                    brought Salmon P. Chase, Joshua R. Giddings, Benjamin Tappan, and many others to the cause of
                    preventing western extension of slavery, soon the foundation of a new Republican party. 
                        Ohio
                     became a leading state in this transformation; and it was no coincidence that John C.
                    Frémont, a favorite there, got the presidential nomination in 1856. It was the beginning
                    of 
                        Ohio
                    ' strong attachment to the Republican party well into the next century.
            There is much more that these essays have to say about the political terrain than space in this
                    review permits—primitive and fraudulent election practices, constant appeals to public
                    interest while pursuing private gain, self-serving reasons for politicians to change party
                    affiliations, all were elements of this political culture. As the editors assess such factors, they
                    emphasize the great complexity of politics, demanding caution by historians often quick to
                    oversimplify their explanations. One may give these authors credit for avoiding such hazards in this
                    useful publication.
            MAURICE BAXTER is professor emeritus of history, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is a specialist in nineteenth-century political and constitutional
                history.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                         Jazz: A Cultural History, 1904-1930. By William Howland Kenney. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1993. Pp. xv, 233. Appendix, notes, index. $24.00.)
            In this study of early jazz William Howland Kenney brings together two genres that still do not mix
                    often enough—jazz studies and cultural history. Exploring the relationship of jazz and
                    its urban context, he tries especially to lay out "some of the interactive process between
                    music and the specific night-life institutions that presented jazz" (p. xii). The result is
                    a vivid tour of long-gone clubs  and dance halls. Kenney moves
                    from Robert Motts' 
                        Pekin
                     Theater early in the twentieth century to the Dreamland Cafe, the Sunset Cafe, and the
                    Apex Club in the 1920s. Depicting the active night life along "The Stroll" on
                    South State Street, he takes the reader into the Savoy Ballroom, the first big black dance hall, and
                    into such "black-and-tan" clubs as the Grand Terrace Cafe.
            On this excursion Kenney presents 
                        Chicago
                     jazz as the product of a distinct historical moment: the black migration from the South
                    to a midwestern city with a "booming economy, machine politics, rebellion against
                    prohibition moralism, and increased inter-racial awareness" (p. 148). In this setting
                    African-American musicians could create the new sounds that filled all those clubs and dance halls
                    and helped to establish a realm of nighttime entertainment during the 1910s and 1920s.
            Kenney shows how jazz was rooted in de facto segregation, in the separate black world of saloons,
                    cafes, pool halls, vaudeville, movies, and politics on 
                        Chicago
                    ' South Side. There, the pioneering jazz musicians came to terms with what
                    Kenney calls the "transforming power" (p. 43) of the city. In line with the
                    cultural and social history of the last thirty years, he stresses that, although these men changed
                    their dress, deportment, and music, they did not lose their distinctive African-American identity.
                    Chicago jazz was the product of "cross-cultural synthesis" (p. 561, not cultural
                    suppression.
            Kenney also shows how jazz gradually reached into the white world, thanks in part to the
                    black-and-tans where white and African-American patrons could mix and to the handful of whites-only
                    venues where black musicians could play. He nicely demonstrates the jolting impact of
                    African-American music on a generation of young white musicians. More daringly—and less
                    persuasively—Kenney tries to argue that jazz was a medium of interracial
                    "reconciliation" (p. xiv). But he never establishes the music' power to
                    harmonize white and black.
            In all, Kenney tells an interesting but largely familiar story. The merger of jazz studies and
                    cultural history is surely as important as he maintains, but here it does not lead to a particularly
                    new perspective on the music or the culture.
            MICHAEL MCGERR is associate professor
                    of history, Indiana University, Blooming-ton. He is writing The Gospel of Wealth: The 
                        United States
                    , 1900-1929 for the 
                        Oxford
                     History of the 
                        United States
                     edited by C. Vann Woodward.
         
         
            
               Light in the Darkness: African Americans and the YMCA, 1852-1946. By Nina
                    Mjagkij. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1994. Pp. x, 198. Illustrations, appendixes, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $23.00.)
            The growth of traditional institutions in the 
                        United States
                     is well chronicled. Nina Mjagkij' book describes the intersection of  one such institution, the Young Men' Christian
                    Association (YMCA), with segregation and racism. The book details the impact of racial isolation on
                    attempts by African Americans, often with the help of their white counterparts, to form segregated
                    YMCA branches. As Mjagkij describes it, this arrangement fit perfectly into the plans of the
                    mid-nineteenth century "Christian brotherhood to create a "separate but
                    equal" YMCA for African Americans. According to Mjagkij, it also fit the needs of the
                    African-American community: "Faced with emasculation through lynchings, disfranchisement,
                    race riots, and jim crow laws, the educated elite established YMCAs as sanctuaries where
                    African-American men could be men and African-American boys could become men" (p. 7).
            Mjagkij' book recounts changes in the role of the African-American YMCA secretariat, the
                    growth of the YMCA in African-American colleges and universities, and the service of
                    African-American YMCA members to military units as teachers and tutors for illiterate soldiers
                    during World War I. The mounting post-World War I pressure from returning military personnel,
                    particularly those who served overseas, made it difficult for the YMCA to continue its
                    segregationist philosophy without strong resistance from the African-American secretaries and their
                    membership. The postwar movement led to a reorganization of the YMCA and the creation of a colored
                    work department which was responsible for all African-American branches.
            The YMCA did not escape the financial strain of the depression years. Resignations, layoffs, and
                    reductions of staff were common occurrences during the 1930s. The role of white philanthropists as
                    well as that of Madam C. J. Walker of 
                        Indianapolis
                     are highlighted in the text. Daily activities at the Senate Avenue YMCA of 
                        Indianapolis
                     are also noted.
            Mjagkij describes the slow growth of resistance to segregated facilities until the worldwide
                    explosion of rhetoric about democratic ideals during World War II. According to Mjagkij, most
                    African-American YMCA secretaries prior to the buildup that led to World War II followed Booker T.
                    Washington' call for accommodation and gradual change. Both the international and national
                    pressure to desegregate the YMCA led to a resolution in 1946 that dissolved the colored work
                    department, abolished racial designations, and urged local associations to desegregate.
            Within the book there is a description of the change in African-American YMCA secretaries and other
                    African-American leaders during World War II. The secretaries began to collaborate with other
                    organizations such as the Urban League, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People,
                    and Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters to discuss the military effort, defense industry, and scores
                    of other issues that were seen as roadblocks to equality and progress for African Americans. By 1946
                    African-American YMCAs were seen in major cities around the country as  places for social interaction, professional networking, and male
                    bonding for African-American men.
            This valuable book is reinforced by very informative appendixes and notes. The appendixes list
                    statistical information about African-American YMCAs and their secretaries for the period covered by
                    the book, and the notes give scores of resources for those who are searching for more information
                    than is readily available in this slim volume. The bibliography is also extensive and very
                    informative.
            STANLEY WARREN is emeritus professor of education, DePauw
                    University, 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana.
         
         
            
               The Way of the Cross Leads Home: The Domestication of American Methodism. By A.
                    Gregory Schneider. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1993. Pp. xxviii, 257. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            
               The Way of the Cross Leads Home is a history of American Methodism during its most
                    dynamic period—1784—1850—and in the place—the
                        Ohio Valley and the Old Northwest-where more than anywhere else it
                    developed the institutional pattern that allowed it to grow into America' most
                    representative religion. A. Gregory Schneider emphasizes how post-Revolutionary Methodism broke with
                    the earlier—presumably Anglican-related—patriarchal family, which was based
                    upon the culture of honor, to produce a religious fellowship that viewed itself as an extended
                    family and that in turn produced individual family units based upon affection, spiritual nurture,
                    and protection from an evil world. Before 1830 the primary agency for promoting experiential
                    religion was less the frontier camp meeting than the weekly class meeting supplemented by the
                    quarterly "love feasts." Then during the middle decades of the nineteenth century
                    as Methodism became institutionalized, it was the Methodist home that increasingly became the agency
                    for facilitating the Methodist experience of submission and obedience that the author calls
                    "the way of the cross."
            There is much about this book to commend. Although Schneider describes it as "primarily a
                    work of analysis," he demonstrates superb narrative skills in his sprightly descriptions of
                    Methodist institutions and practices (e.g., circuit-riding preachers, local
                    preachers, home-based services, family devotions, prayer meetings, and fellowship and individual
                    testimonies in class meetings). Furthermore, his research is thorough, his writing is lucid, his
                    tone is fair; and he regularly employs useful insights from the related disciplines of sociology,
                    psychology, and theology.
            It is difficult to evaluate the interpretive aspects of the book. Schneider' effort to show
                    that Methodism played a significant role  in changing both
                    American religion and American homes is both compelling and overstated. Unquestionably, Methodism
                    was the single most significant denominational contributor to the movement toward heart religion and
                    domesticity in nineteenth-century America. One wishes, however, that the author had more clearly
                    placed the Methodist record in the larger context of the Second Great Awakening and the changes that
                    that movement effected toward religious seriousness, individual ability, and individualism
                    throughout Protestantism and society in general.
            Also, while the author shows a strong relationship between Methodism and domesticity, he exaggerates
                    the extent to which Methodism is central in explaining the importance of the family and the extent
                    to which domestication is central in explaining early Methodism. One could argue that the Methodists
                    were merely following the pattern of many other groups before and since who became a family-like
                    fellowship (note, for example, the contemporary popularity of the Bill Gaither song and hymnal,
                    "The Family of God," which is used in many denominations) or who carried their
                    evangelistic concerns to their homes. The Methodists were unique, however, in at least one important
                    respect: more than any other major nineteenth-century denomination, they provided spiritual
                    leadership opportunities for women (see chapter 12). While domestication is one useful way of
                    interpreting Methodist history, there are other modes that are no less important; some of these (the
                    importance of status and class in the rise of Methodism, the idea of separation from the world, a
                    comparison of the foundation stage and the "middle age" or institutional stage of
                    religious movements, and the importance of women) the author discusses with insight although he does
                    not focus on them. In summary, Schneider has written a good book on a subject of developing
                    interest; however, if his interpretive framework had been more broadly conceived, his good book
                    would have been an even better one.
            WILLIAM C. RINGENBERG is professor and chair of the
                    Department of History, Taylor University, Upland, Indiana.
         
         
            
               American Agriculture: A Brief History. By R. Douglas Hurt. (Ames: 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1994. Pp. xii, 412. Illustrations, maps, suggested readings,
                    appendix, tables, bibliographical note, index. $34.95.)
            Agriculture occupies a special place in American history with images of farmers reflecting
                    Jeffersonian agrarian ideals. In a nation whose food exports now reach around the globe, farming has
                    changed from early frontier cultivation into an efficient agribusiness. Agriculture once constituted
                    the primary way of life for generations of American families; today less than 2 percent of the
                    population of the 
                        United States
                     is classified as farmers.
            
            Although R. Douglas Hurt describes this current work as a brief history, readers will perceive it as
                    a major re-analysis of this agricultural transformation. Hurt focuses more on narratives than on
                    traditional listings of statistics and employs a topical approach within chronological timeframes as
                    reflected in the context of social, political, and economic forces. His treatment is not simply
                    blind praise for hard-working farmers but a tale leavened with less desirable aspects such as greed,
                    racism, abusive farming techniques, speculation, and outright corruption. Nonetheless, his approach
                    is objectively balanced, and he poses the obviously recurring question, did American farmers wish to
                    maintain their essentially small subsistence-style operations, or were they eager participants in
                    the growing market economy with its commercial production? He maintains that many farmers viewed
                    themselves, perhaps contradictorily, as pursuers of both ends of the agricultural spectrum. Those
                    readers interested in this perspective as pertinent to agrarian values might wish to begin with
                    Hurt' stunningly perceptive essay entitled "Agrarianism" (pp. 72-77).
            Hurt views the period 1865-1900 as one of the most revolutionary in terms of change. Slavery ended in
                    1865, while expensive mechanization and increased demands for capital combined with unfair commodity
                    marketing to buffet helpless farmers much like straw in the wind. Clearly the Gilded Age was not
                    golden for all, and farmers suffered at the lowest rungs of the economic ladder.
            By the early twentieth century economic trends in terms of commodity supply and demand became more
                    favorable. Hurt comprehensively summarizes these trends in his chapter entitled the "Age of
                    Prosperity" (pp. 221-79). However, increased farm technology and policies of the federal
                    government induced many farmers into over-production by World War I. Seeds of disaster were thus
                    planted for the grim 1920s with their collapsing markets and sagging farm values followed by the
                    debacle of the Great Depression in the 1930s. In response, New Deal programs set in motion the basis
                    for ever-expanding farm programs.
            A popular slogan in the 1970s became "Get Bigger, Get Better or Get Out." Many
                    small and middle-sized farm operators did precisely that—often whether or not they wanted
                    to do so. Correspondingly, present-day federal farm funding concentrates more on new specialty
                    programs such as biotechnology and less on conventional price-support/loan programs. Solidly
                    researched, beautifully written, and replete with maps and illustrations, Hurt'
                    agricultural history becomes the new standard reference and is destined to be the definitive study
                    for many years in the future.
            DAVID E. SCHOB teaches agricultural history at 
                        Texas
                     A & M University, College Station. He is the author of Hired Hands
                        and Plow Boys: Farm Labor in the Midwest, 1815-60(1975).
         
         
         
            
               The American Railroad Freight Car: From the Wood-Car Era to the Coming of Steel.
                    By John H. White, Jr. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1993. Pp. xi, 644. Illustrations, tables, appendixes,
                    bibliography, notes, index. $125.00.)
            The idea that anyone could take a subject as prosaic as the railroad freight car and convert it into
                    an encyclopedia of fascinating reading that runs to 644 pages and weighs eight pounds boggles the
                    mind. That, however, is exactly what John H. White, Jr., has done, and he has done it in superb
                    fashion.
            Although containing more than 530 photographs and drawings, many of a technical nature, this book is
                    much more than a hardware study. It traces the development of the freight car, discusses its impact
                    on society, and expands into such topics as types of traffic, invention of special cars, rates and
                    rebates, the interchange system, car leasing, private car fleets, and the American Humane
                    Association, which was established to counter perceived livestock transportation abuses.
            Building on the thesis that "cheap, dependable haulage of goods is essential to civilized
                    life, at least as we know it in the West" (p. x), White goes on to weave a compelling
                    account of the development of specialized cars to meet specific needs. Refrigerator cars, tankers,
                    and oyster, wine, vinegar, and molasses cars were among them. The originals, however, were flatcars,
                    gondolas developed to haul coal, and boxcars to haul almost everything else. But this was not
                    enough. Development of the hopper car reduced the amount of labor involved in moving coal, and the
                    refrigerator car made it possible to build packing plants near the supply source and ship the meat
                    to the market, a less expensive and more certain procedure than transporting the live animal.
            White also discusses technical details such as wheels, trucks, springs, journal boxes, couplers, and
                    brakes. He explains their development in great detail, tracing it historically and explaining the
                    needs that led to improvements. Turning to broader aspects, the author also discusses signaling,
                    effects of grades and curves, speeds, containerization and yard management, and the steps that led
                    to larger cars and longer trains.
            References to Indiana facilities and events dot the book. Once a major car builder, the state was
                    home to plants in 
                        Michigan
                     City, 
                  Jeffersonville, Lafayette
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Haskell and Barker in 
                        Michigan
                     City, which filled a 1,000-car order for the West Shore Railroad in 1884, pioneered in
                    the use of assembly line production.
            White writes in an easy, flowing style that simplifies even the most technical discussions. Although
                    designed for reference, the book makes pleasant reading for everyone interested in this field.
            RICHARD S. SIMONS is the author of The Rivers
                        of Indiana (1985) and is currently collaborating on a comprehensive history of Indiana
                    railroads. He is a past president of the Indiana Historical Society Board of Trustees.
         
         
         
            
               S. A. Cunningham & the Confederate Heritage. By John A. Simpson. (
                        Athens
                    : University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xii, 246. Illustrations, tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $35.00.)
            As the founder of the Confederate Veteran magazine, Sumner Archibald Cunningham
                    seemingly embodied the central values of the Lost Cause. As biographer John A. Simpson convincingly
                    shows, however, Cunningham' efforts to memorialize the Confederate experience (with the
                    accompanying personal and legal controversies) originated in the editor' own less than
                    sterling war record.
            Born in 
                  Bedford County, Tennessee
               , in 1843, Cunningham grew up in a middle-class Presbyterian
                    family. At the beginning of the Civil War, Cunningham, an anxious, nervous youth, unenthusiastically
                    enlisted in the lackluster 41st 
                        Tennessee
                     Infantry Regiment. Quickly promoted to sergeant, probably because of his literacy,
                    Cunningham was captured at Fort Donelson and taken to Camp Morton in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Here he began to have second, and probably third, thoughts about the war but refused
                    to take an oath of loyalty to the Union. He was finally exchanged at 
                        Vicksburg
                    . A combination of illness and demoralization now made him a most reluctant fighter.
                    According to Simpson' reading of the sketchy evidence, Cunningham would often be ill or
                    absent on the eve of battles and, despite a religious conversion in 1864, would never be much of a
                    soldier. After John B. Hood' disastrous 
                        Tennessee
                     campaign, during which Cunningham actually showed some valor, the unwilling soldier hid
                    out as a deserter with his family.
            Like many former Confederates, Cunningham struggled to make a living in the postwar South; he briefly
                    ran a dry goods store but soon turned to journalism as his life' work. After stints with
                    several newspapers in 
                  Tennessee, Georgia
               , and even 
                        New York
                    , Cunningham finally found a permanent home in 
                        Nashville
                    . An active participant in Confederate veterans groups and one of the founders of the
                    United Confederate Veterans (UCV), Cunningham never got along with the former high ranking officers
                    who dominated the organization. Still reticent about his own military service, Cunningham
                    nevertheless established the Confederate Veteran magazine in 1893 even as he
                    continued to spar with UCV officials. The magazine' successful appeal to rank-and-file
                    soldiers made Cunningham a leading preserver of the Confederate heritage in memorials and
                    "proper" histories, yet his prickly personality ensnared him in a lengthy libel
                    suit that nearly destroyed the Confederate Veteran. Toward the end of his life
                    Cunningham successfully campaigned for a memorial to Sam Davis—a boy spy executed by the
                    Federals—and ironically a tablet for Richard Owen, the humane commandant of Camp Morton.
                    In this way, the author concludes, Cunningham finally made peace with his Confederate experience and
                    with the 
                        United States
                    .
            
            Simpson has carefully and ingeniously recorded the life of a shadowy figure. Although there is little
                    new here about the cult of the Lost Cause, the biography does full justice to its subject despite
                    the absence of extensive Cunningham manuscripts. The division of 162 pages of text into twenty-two
                    chapters makes for sometimes choppy reading, but Simpson has done a solid job of placing
                    Cunningham' troubled life in a broad historical context.
            GEORGE C. RABLE is professor of history, Anderson
                    University, Anderson, Indiana. He is author of The Confederate Republic: A Revolution
                        Against Politics (1994).
         
         
            
               Fair Trial: Rights of the Accused in American History. By David J. Bodenhamer. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1992. Pp. x, 173. Notes, suggestions for further reading, indexes.
                    Clothbound, $29.95; paperbound, $11.95.)
            This volume is the fourth in the series, Bicentennial Essays on the Bill of Rights, a series
                    resulting from a collaboration between the Organization of American Historians Committee on the
                    Bicentennial of the Constitution and Oxford University Press. The purpose of the series is to
                    promote informed understanding of the Bill of Rights by providing comprehensive surveys of its main
                    provisions in short, accessible monographs. Written in nontechnical language, the series
                    contributors have sought to make "the history of rights and liberties resonate with
                    developments in the nation' social, cultural, and political history" (p. vii). If
                        Fair Trial is any indication of the quality of the series, it will soon become
                    essential for any course on the subject.
            David J. Bodenhamer' concise survey takes the reader from the colonial period to the
                    present, tracing the legal and jurisprudential conflicts between the government and the accused,
                    between order and liberty. The ancient concept of due process—the intellectual touchstone
                    throughout—was transformed first by the Constitution itself and then again by the Civil
                    War amendments. The federal system added a dimension of complexity unique to the American system;
                    courts were obliged not only to decide what rights were at stake in any given proceeding but also to
                    determine which level of government—federal or state—properly held
                    jurisdiction. These were and are highly technical legal issues, but Bodenhamer' pen renders
                    them comprehensible and, even more important, intellectually exciting. The central constitutional
                    issue in the area of the rights of the accused since the passage of the Fourteenth Amendment is
                    whether the amendment "incorporates" the Bill of Rights and thus makes it binding
                    on the states. Bodenhamer demonstrates how this issue intersected with the substantive grievances of
                    criminal defendants in the jurisprudence of justices from Oliver Wendell Holmes to William J.
                    Rehnquist.
            
            Bodenhamer' mastery of the law and scholarly historical literature on issues both mundane
                    and monumental makes for a smooth narrative. His own view of his subject is that "what
                    emerges from the history of defendants’ rights is a heightened respect for the maxim that
                    American government is one of laws, not of people" (p. 9). The book' many examples
                    of the less-than-equal treatment of women and racial minorities before the courts might lead an
                    inquisitive undergraduate to question that thesis. This result would be a virtue rather than a
                    failing, however, for if this book prompts undergraduates to confront critically the contradictions
                    between law and justice, it will have set them well on their way to understanding how democracy and
                    criminal justice can co-exist, however uneasily.
            VICTORIA SAKER WOESTE is a research
                    fellow at the American Bar Foundation in 
                        Chicago
                    , where she conducts independent scholarly research on historical projects involving
                    law, regulation, and the administrative state. She is the author of several articles on
                    twentieth-century constitutional law.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Indiana Federal Writers' Project/Program Papers: Guide to the Microfilm Edition
                        at Indiana State University. Compiled by Robert L. Carter; edited by David E. Vancil. (
                        Terre Haute
                    , Ind.: Friends of Cunningham Memorial Library, 1992. Pp. xviii, 114.) There is hardly a
                    subject in twentieth-century Indiana history that would not be deepened by research in the files of
                    the Federal Writers' Project of the Works Progress Administration (WPA) at Indiana State
                    University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    . These files are now available on thirty-one reels of microfilm and described in this
                    guide. Robert K. O'Neill pointed to the range and depth of the collection in his article in
                    the Indiana Magazine of History in June, 1980. Although the collection was created
                    as the research base for Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State, published in 1941,
                    there is much more to it than that. Ronald L. Baker, professor of English at Indiana State, has used
                    the materials for his studies of folklife in Indiana. Historian George Rawick has drawn attention to
                    the collection' 140 interviews of former slaves and their descendants. I have run the
                    folders for 
                        Monroe
                     and 
                        Grant counties
                     with good results for two separate local history projects and with special interest in
                    the kinds of subject matter local historians thought important in the 1930s.
            Since the collection and microfilm are organized by county, local libraries and historical societies
                    might consider purchase of the reel or reels for their particular county. This new guide provides a
                    counties index, a towns and cities index, and personal names index. For further information on
                    purchase of the guide or microfilm reels, write Dr. David Vancil, Cunningham Memorial Library,
                    Indiana State University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , IN 47809. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Indiana: An Interpretation. By John Bartlow Martin. (1947; reprint, 
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1992. Pp. xviii, 317. Notes, map, bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $29.95; paper-bound, $12.95.) John Bartlow Martin'
                    critical examination of Indiana sparked controversy when it appeared in 1947, and readers today will
                    note the dominance of white males in the study. Yet this book remains a compelling, at times
                    prescient, challenge to the self-congratulatory "Indiana idea" of a bucolic state
                    inhabited by confident, shrewd, and neighborly people. Martin worried that Indianans, like Americans
                    generally, were maintaining a "self-conscious rusticity" (p. 274) when modern
                    capitalism was obliterating the virtues they sought to preserve; his warning can now guide those who
                    are exploring Indiana' recent past. John M. Glen, Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            
               A Photographic History of Martin County: Indiana Album. By Bill Whorrall, with
                    Stephen Harold Riggins and Thomas E. Rodgers. (Shoals, Ind.: The author, 1993. Pp. 536.
                    Illustrations, endnotes. Paperbound, $40.00, plus $6.00 tax and shipping.
                    Order from Bill Whorrall, R. R. 3, Box 24, Shoals, IN 47581.) Bill Whorrall' photographic
                    history of 
                        Martin County
                     in southern Indiana evokes memories of musty cardboard boxes and black-paged albums
                    filled with pictures of ancestors no longer recognized and events no longer remembered. Buttressed
                    by text based on oral interviews, journal articles, newspaper accounts, and documentary evidence,
                    these photographs of people and places "back when" provide the
                    "stuff" of the new social history. Here is the economic, social, political, and
                    personal context in which not merely the history of 
                        Martin County
                     and southern Indiana was written but that of larger milieus as well. Here are the
                    ordinary people historians purport to seek. Whorrall has produced not only a fascinating album of
                    memories but a significant historical record as well. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               
                  
                            Brown County
                        , Indiana, Schools: Half a Century. Written and edited by Warren Ogle. (n.p.:
                    [The author], 1993. Pp. [vi], [82]. Illustrations, map. Paperbound.) A native of 
                        Brown County
                    , Indiana, 
                        Warren
                     Ogle spent more than half a century as student, teacher, and administrator in the
                    county' schools. Part autobiography, part history, his book focuses on schools which he
                    attended or in which he taught and provides a glimpse of education in this extremely rural area in
                    southern Indiana. His is the story of one-room elementary schools and, particularly, of tiny 
                        Van
                     Buren High School, whose graduates numbered eight in 1915, the first year for which a
                    graduation class is listed; eight—including Ogle—in 1925; and fourteen in
                    1958, the last year of its existence. Although in some respects a nostalgic rendering,
                    Ogle' book contains especially valuable lists of principals, teachers, and graduates of 
                        Van
                     Buren High School from 1915 through 1958 and of teachers and students in a number of
                    elementary schools for various years, as well as a map indicating the names and locations of all
                    schools that existed in 
                        Brown County
                    . Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Steel Shavings. Home Front: The World War II Years in the Calumet Region,
                    1941-1945. Edited by James B. Lane. Volume XXII. ([Gary, Ind.]: Indiana University Northwest,
                    1993. Pp. 96. Illustrations. Periodical, $5.00.) The Calumet Region' steel and
                    petroleum industries played a major role in World War II. So did the ordinary people, those who
                    worked at Standard Oil, those who 
                    
                  BURNS CITY IN 1908
                  Courtesy Donald and Virginia Sargent.
               
                    
                  SIMON HARKER WITH A MARTIN DITCHER, FRONT VIEW
                  
                  THIS DEVICE HELPED DRAW OFF HEAVY SPRING RAINS AND DIRECT THE EXCESS WATER TO THE NEARBY RIVER.
                  Courtesy Augie and Anita Bauer.
               
                    
                    
                  WORLD WAR II PINUP GIRL SHIRLEY ANNE FRANZITTA
                  
               
                    
                  MRS. JACK FODDRILL LOADING 75mm TEST GUN IN
                                GARY ARMOR PLATE PLANT, OCTOBER, 1943
                  Reproduced from ‘Home Front: The World War II Years in the Calumet
                            Region. 1941-1945," Steel Shavings. XXII (1993), 32, 59
               
                     sent letters and pinup pictures to lonely soldiers, those who
                    saved scrap metal and rationed meat. James B. Lane' students at Indiana University
                    Northwest, Gary, have put together dozens of interviews with home-front Hoosiers, with subject
                    matter ranging from the heroic to the mundane. Many of these oral histories reveal the special place
                    of women and children on the home front. Stephen G. McShane' introduction, published in
                    Traces in the fall of 1991, nicely sets the stage for the human stories that follow. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Uncle Tom Andy Bill: A Story of Bears and Indian Treasure. By Charles Major. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1993. Pp. vii, 344. Illustration. Clothbound,
                    $17.95; paperbound, $10.95.) Another in the Library of Indiana Classics series
                    published by the Indiana University Press, Uncle Tom Andy Bill is in the nature of
                    a sequel to Charles Major' more popular and widely known Bears of
                            Blue River
                (1901; Library of Indiana Classics reprint, 1984). With
                    his nephew as his Boswell, the fictional Thomas Andrew William Addison recounts his adventures as a
                    boy and young man in the forests of central and southern Indiana. Originally published in 1908, the
                    result is vintage early-twentieth-century romantic literature. Lorna Lutes Sylvester,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Historic Hoosier Dining, Lodging and Hospitality. By Harry G. Black. (
                        Hammond
                    , Ind.: HMB Publications, 1994. Pp. 84. Maps, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $7.95, plus $1.50 postage and handling. Order from HMB Publications, 7406 
                        Monroe
                     Avenue, 
                        Hammond
                    , IN 46324.) In something of the spirit of Jane and Michael Stern, Harry G. Black has
                    prepared a historic dining and lodging guide for travelers in the Hoosier state. Included are
                    still-operating historic hotels, inns, restaurants, and taverns that were established between the
                    1800s and 1940. For each entry Black provides brief historic sketches, photographs, and addresses;
                    indicates special menu items and other interesting features; and on three rough maps marks
                    approximate locations in northern, central, and southern Indiana. Lorna Lutes
                        Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Archives A New Series
            The Indiana Magazine of History announces the establishment of a new series
                    highlighting the wealth of research materials now available at state, regional, and local archives
                    in Indiana. Archivists have been acquiring and opening for research not only manuscript collections
                    but such items as photographs, oral histories, videotapes, microfilmed newspapers, computerized
                    statistical files, laboratory data, maps, and architectural drawings. Meanwhile, recent historical
                    research has been looking at sources in new ways and exploring new ways of documenting the past. The
                    purpose of an Archives Section is to promote a greater awareness and use of these archival
                    collections, encourage primary research in archives throughout the state, and build productive
                    working relationships between archivists and patrons of all backgrounds.
            The Archives Section generally will discuss archives and their collections in relation to a subject
                    of current historical concern. Essays will examine the critical questions involved in that subject
                    and identify archival holdings that offer potential answers. Discussions of these collections in
                    turn will describe their size and scope, principal strengths and shortcomings, state of
                    organization, accessibility to scholars, and relation to other collections. The availability and
                    utility of finding aids and other services to researchers will be noted as well.
            By calling attention to new sources and to older collections that have been underexamined, or that
                    potentially have new uses; by learning more about archival acquisitions programs; and by suggesting
                    how a project might draw upon complementary holdings in several archives, this Archives Section
                    seeks to become an important tool in the research and writing of Indiana and midwestern history.
            The tentative goal is to run the first Archives Section in the September, 1995, issue of the IMH.
                    Readers are invited to send comments about this proposed section to the editors.
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Books, Pamphlets, Dissertations, and Other Publications in Indiana History
            
                    Compiled by Leigh Darbee
                
            
               Editor' Note. This list of articles, books, pamphlets, and dissertations
                    published from 1990 to 1994 is intended as a bibliographic contribution to Indiana'
                    history. The list will normally appear in each March issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. We recognize that the list is neither complete nor systematic in coverage, and we
                    hope that readers will help us by sending items for possible inclusion. We are especially interested
                    in listing publications that make some contribution to understanding Indiana' past but that
                    are not usually reviewed in the IMH. Generally, we will not list newspaper articles or accounts of
                    local historical society activities, but printed pamphlets as well as journal articles may be
                    listed. All such items for the March, 1996, issue must be received by November 1, 1995. Many people
                    have contributed to the present list, but major responsibility has rested with Leigh Darbee of the
                    Indiana Historical Society.
            
               Abel-Crecelius, Maria, "Whispers of the Past: Patoka Schools of Yesteryear,"
                            Outdoor Indiana, LIX (September/October, 1994).
               Ault, Curtis, and Robert Shaver, "Indiana' Silurian Reefs," Outdoor Indiana, IX (September/October, 1994).
               B., F. W., "[Maurice] Thompson' Literary Accomplishments Reviewed,"
                            
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XIX (February, 1994).
               Baker, David L., 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            -
                                Marion County
                             Automobile Industry, 1890-1940 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Indianapolis
                         Historic Preservation Commission[?], 1990).
               Ball, Phil, The Unauthorized Biography of a Local Doctor (Dr. Phil Ball) (
                            Hagerstown
                        : Exponent Publishers, 1993). Order from: The author, 4915 N. Nebo Rd., 
                            Muncie
                        , IN 47304.
               Beatty, John D., Beyond These Stones: A History of Trinity Episcopal Church, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana (
                            Fort Wayne
                        : The Church, 1994). Order from: The author, 3917 Knightway Dr., 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , IN 46815.
               Beck, Lee, "The Cord That Binds: E. L. Cord and the 
                            Auburn
                         Automobile Company," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, VI (Spring, 1994).
               Becker, Edwin L., "1923: Year of Peril for 
                            Indianapolis
                         Disciples Pastors," Encounter, LIV (Autumn, 1993).
               Berthoff, Rowland, "‘A Little Nonsense Now and Then’:
                        Conventional Humor in Indiana, 1850," Indiana Magazine of History, XC
                        (June, 1994).
               
               Bigott, Joseph, "‘With Security and Comfort for All’:
                        Working-Class Home Ownership and Democratic Ideals in the Calumet Region, 1869 to 1929"
                        (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                     Delaware,
                                Newark
                  , 1993).
               "Blackmail at the Harper Buggy Factory," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXX (August, 1992). [Reprint of an
                        article in the 
                            Whitley County
                         News, July 3, 1903.]
               Blakey, George T., "Battling the Great Depression on Stage in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XC (March, 1994). [The Federal Theatre Project in
                        Indiana.]
               Bonnemains, Jacqueline, "Charles-Alexandre Lesueur en Amérique du Nord
                        (1816-18371," Annales du Muséum du Havre, No. 42 (June,
                        1993). Order from: Muséum d‘Histoire Naturelle, Place du Vieux
                        Marché, 76600 Le Havre, 
                            France
                        .
               Booher, Ned, 
                     
                                Howard County
                            : A Pictorial History (
                            Virginia
                         Beach, Va.: The Donning Company, 1994). Order from: 
                            Howard County
                         Historical Society, 1200 W. Sycamore St., 
                            Kokomo
                        , IN 46901.
               Boomhower, Ray, "The Aviatrix and the University: Amelia Earhart at Purdue,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Summer, 1994).
               Boomhower, Ray, "Carl G. Fisher, the Hoosier Barnum," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Spring, 1994).
               Boomhower, Ray, "Home of the Classics," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, VI (Spring, 1994). [Automobile-related museums in Indiana.]
               Boomhower, Ray, "Huddleston Farmhouse Inn Museum," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Fall, 1994).
               Boomhower, Ray, "‘To Secure Honest Elections’: Jacob Piatt
                        Dunn, Jr., and the Reform of Indiana' Ballot," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, XC (December, 1994).
               Booth, Guy, "[Daniel] Burnham' Legacy Disappearing Fast," Indiana Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1994).
               Booth, Guy, "The Higher the Spire, the Closer to Heaven," Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June, 1994).
               Brewer, Fredric, "Abraham 
                            Van
                         Vleet and the Early Press of 
                            Fayette County
                        , Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XC (June, 1994).
               Brockman, Paul, "Made in Indiana," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, VI (Spring, 1994). [Indiana-built automobiles.]
               Bruggen, Bill, "Facelift at 150," Outdoor Indiana, LIX
                        (September/October, 1994). [Restoration of the J. F. D. Lanier mansion in 
                            Madison
                        .]
               Buckmaster, Henrietta, Let My People Go: The Story of the Underground Railroad
                            and the Growth of the Abolition Movement (
                            Columbia
                        , S.C.: University of 
                            South Carolina
                         Press, 1992). [Reprint of 1941 edition].
               Burress, Marjorie Burnside, Led by the River: The Story of My Father'
                            Towboating Days ([North Bend, 
                            Ohio
                        : The author],  1993). Order from: The author,
                        3289 Triplecrown Dr., North Bend, OH 45052.
               Butler, Don, 
                     
                                Auburn
                             Cord Duesenberg (Osceola, Wis.: Crestline/Motorbooks International, 1992).
               Cameron, James, A Time of Terror (
                            Baltimore
                        : Black Classic Press, 1994). [New edition of the book about the lynchings in 
                            Marion
                        , first published in 1982.]
               Campbell, Duncan C., "‘Professor of Building’ Won Hundreds of 
                            Bloomington
                         Jobs," Indiana Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April,
                        1994). [John L. Nichols of 
                            Bloomington
                        .]
               Canal Society of Indiana, Upper Whitewater and 
                                Hagerstown
                             Canals ([
                            Fort Wayne
                        : The society, 1994?]). Order from: The society, 302 E. Berry St., 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , IN 46802.
               Carr, Loris Lindsey, Wondrous Journey ([s.l.: s.n.], 1994). [Memoir of a woman minister in
                        Indiana.]
               Carter, Michael, "Architecture Enhances Religious Experience," Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June, 1994).
               Carter, Michael, "Museum' Spans Color Artful Landscape," Indiana Preservationist, No. 6 (November/December, 1994). [Bridges on the
                        grounds of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Museum of Art.]
               Case, Neil A., "Bridging Two Centuries," Outdoor Indiana,
                        LVIII (November/December, 1993). [Dora covered bridge.]
               Castaldi, Tom, "Bluffs of the 
                            Wabash
                        ," Outdoor Indiana, LIX (September/October, 1994).
                        ["Tall tales" associated with the river in Indiana.]
               Clark, Andrew L., A Cornfield Shipyard (
                            Mt. Vernon
                        : Windmill Publications, 1991). [History of the US. Navy Auxiliary Shipyard, 
                            Evansville
                        , also known as the 
                            Evansville
                         Shipyard.]
               Clemens, Jan, A Pictorial History of Merrillville (Hobart: Review Printers,
                        1991.) [Reprint of 1978 edition.] Order from: Merrillville-Ross Township Historical Society,
                        6975 
                            Broadway
                        , Merrillville, IN 46410.
               
                  The Clio Club, A Nostalgic Trip through the Decades, 1900-1960 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The club, 1993). Order from: Ardis Jerden, 8053 River Bay W., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46240.
               Collins, Cary C., "Grey Eagle: Major General Robert Huston Milroy and the Civil
                        War," Indiana Magazine of History, XC (March, 1994).
               Colman, Penny, Madam C. J, Walker: Building a Business Empire (
                            Brookfield
                        , Conn.: Millbrook Press, 1994). [Intended primarily for young people.]
               Cooper, James L., "Beautiful Bridges Fading from View," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 6 (November/December, 1994).
               Craft, David, The Negro Leagues: 40 Years of Black Professional Baseball in Words
                            and Pictures (
                            New York
                        : Crescent Books, 1993). [Includes mention of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         ABCs.]
               
               Crawfordsville Journal Review. 150th Anniversary: 150 Years of Newspapers (
                            Crawfordsville
                        : 
                            Crawfordsville
                         Journal Review, 1994).
               Crenshaw, Gwendolyn, "Churches Dominate African-American History," Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June, 1994).
               Crenshaw, Gwendolyn, "Indiana African-American Landmarks and Their History,"
                        Black History News & Notes, No. 56 (May, 1994).
               Crump, James, "The Kinsey Institute Archive: A Taxonomy of Erotic
                        Photography," History of Photography, XVIII (Spring, 1994).
               
                  Cultural Variability in Context: Woodland Settlements of the MidOhio
                                Valley
                  , ed. Mark F. Seeman (
                     Kent, Ohio
                  : 
                            Kent
                         State University Press, 1992).
               Cumbarelis, Glen, "Airstrip Built at Shades to Accommodate Inn Guests," 
                            Montgomery
                         Magazine, XIX (June, 1994).
               
                  Current Research in Indiana Archaeology and Prehistory, 1991 and 1992, ed.
                        Brian G. Redmond ([
                            Bloomington
                        ]: Indiana University, Glenn A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology, 1993).
               Damon, Bradley 
                            Kent
                        , "‘To Care for Him Who Shall Have Borne the Battle’:
                        A History of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Veterans Administration Hospitals, 1928-1988" (M.A. thesis, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1990).
               Darbee, Leigh, "The Life and Confession of James Hudson," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Summer, 1994). [
                            Fall Creek
                         murders in 
                            Madison County
                        .]
               De Vierville, Jonathan P., "American Healing Waters: A Chronology (1513-1946) and
                        Historical Survey of America' Major Springs, Spas, and Health Resorts, Including a
                        Review of Their Medicinal Virtues, Therapeutic Methods, and Health Care Practices"
                        (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                            Texas
                        , Austin, 1992).
               Denker, Ellen Paul, "Liberating the Creative Spirit: 
                            China
                         Painters of Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, VI (Winter, 1994).
               Dennis, Mary Wright, "Dunkirk Friends Burying Ground," The
                            Hoosier Genealogist, XXXIV (June, 1994).
               Dodd, Cora Deputy, The Country Undertaker' Wife (
                            North Vernon
                        : Still Waters Press, 1993). Order from: The press, 2730 W County Road 200 N, 
                            North Vernon
                        , IN 47265.
               Dodson, Kenneth, The Allison Commission: Jens Jensen at Riverdale, 1910-1922: A
                            Work in Progress (
                            Muncie
                        : The author, 1994). [Limited distribution; reference copy located at the Indiana
                        Historical Society Library.]
               Dollase, Mark, "How to Convince Officials to Save Bridges," Indiana Preservationist, No. 6 (November/December, 1994).
               
               Dowell, Mary, "Grace Lutheran Church: The First 100 Years," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXII (June, 1994).
               Driscoll, Elaine Bayless, Dad' Album (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The author, 1993). Order this and the following title from: The author, 7402 
                            Somerset
                         Bay, #203, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46240.
               Driscoll, Elaine Bayless, Mother' Album (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The author, 1993).
               Dunn, Liz, "DNR Seeks Information about Black CCC Companies," Black History News & Notes, No. 57 (August, 1994).
               Ellis, T. R., "A Comparison of Indiana, 
                            Kentucky
                        , and 
                            Ohio
                         Statewide Initiatives for School Improvement as a Response to A Nation
                            at Risk from 1983 through 1990 (Ph.D. dissertation, Miami University,
                                
                     Oxford, Ohio
                  , 1992).
               Elzie, Guy, "Bowers Changed in 50 Years, but Old Ties Linger," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVIII (December, 1993). [Bowers High School.]
               Emerson, Michael A., "Louis Sullivan Gem Sparkles in 
                            Lafayette
                        ," Indiana Preservationist, No. 4 (July/August, 1994).
                        [Purdue State Bank building.]
               Ende, Eleanor von, and Thomas Weiss, "Consumption of Farm Output and Economic Growth
                        in the Old Northwest, 1800-1860," Journal of Economic History, LIII
                        (June, 1993).
               Evansville Museum of Arts & Science, In the Limelight: Historic Theaters
                            of 
                                Evansville
                            
                   (
                            Evansville
                        : The museum, 1994).
               Ewald, Erich L., "Mr. Weichmann and the Ghost of Mrs. Surratt," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Summer, 1994).
               Fadely, James Philip, "Desperate Hope: The Story of Florence Taggart," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Fall, 1994).
               Fawcett, John E., with an introduction by Elizabeth D. Rambeau, "A Hobo Memoir,
                        1936," Indiana Magazine of History, XC (December, 1994).
               Feldman, Richard D., and Judith E. Scherer, "Reaching across a Continent: The Story
                        of the Golden Hill Totem Pole," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, VI (Fall, 1994).
               Ferguson, Frances, "Turkey Run Originally Called ‘Bloomingdale
                        Glens,"’ 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVIII (September, 1993).
               Fink, Mary, and Tevie Jacobs, "The Way It Was That Day," Indiana Jewish History, No. 30 (1994). Order from: Indiana Jewish Historical Society,
                        203 W. Wayne St., 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , IN 46802.
               Forkner, John L., History of 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana, 2 vols. in 1 ([
                            Salem
                        , Mass.: Higginson Book Co., 1992?]). [Reprint of 1914 edition.]
               Frederick, Chip, "A Tale of Two Synagogues," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June, 1994). [B'Nai Yisrael and Hebrew Orthodox
                        Congregation in 
                            South Bend
                        .]
               
               Furlong, Patrick J., "Avanti: Sherwood Egbert' Dream Car," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Spring, 1994).
               Furlong, Patrick J., "Want to Buy a Hoosier Hummer?" Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Spring, 1994).
               Gardner, William M., "‘The Car That Made Good in a Day’: Stutz
                        Motor Company of Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History,
                        VI (Spring, 1994).
               Garrison, J. Gregory, and Randy Roberts, Heavy Justice: The State of Indiana v.
                            Michael G. Tyson (Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley, 1994).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L., comp.], "Index to Articles in Black History News
                            & Notes (October, 1979-August, 1994)," Black History News
                            & Notes, No. 58 (November, 1994).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Music Promoters," Black History News & Notes,
                        No. 55 (February, 1994).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "Letters during the Antebellum Period," Black History News & Notes, No. 55 (February, 1994).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "The 
                            Wabash
                         College Oral History Project at the Indiana Historical Society," Black History News & Notes, No. 58 (November, 1994).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "Walter H. Maddux, MD," Black History News
                            & Notes, No. 56 (May, 1994).
               Ginzberg, Lori D., "‘The Hearts of Your Readers Will Shudder’:
                        Fanny Wright, Infidelity, and American Freethought," American
                        Quarterly, XLVI (June, 1994).
               Grandstaff, David, "Grandstaff Rendering—Recyclers since 1917,"
                        North 
                            Manchester
                         Historical Society Newsletter, X (November, 1993).
               Gray, Ralph D., "The Man from 
                            Kokomo
                        : 
                            Elwood
                         Haynes and the Origins of the Automobile Industry in Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Spring, 1994).
               Gray, Ralph D., "Unchartered Territory: Doing Legal Biography, or the Case of Carl M.
                        Gray," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXVIII, 3rd ser. (1993).
               
                  
                     Green River Road from Cornfields to Concrete (
                            Mt. Vernon
                        : Windmill Publications, 1993).
               Gregson, Mary Eschelbach, "Rural Response to Increased Demand: Crop Choice in the
                        Midwest, 1860-1880," Journal of Economic History, LIII (June, 1993).
               Gregson, Mary Eschelbach, "Specialization in Late-Nineteenth-Century Midwestern
                        Agriculture," Agricultural History, LXVII (Winter, 1993).
               Greiff, Glory-June, "The Statues Speak: In Search of Indiana Sculpture," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Summer, 1994).
               Grubb-King, Jean Loucks, "Frantz and Loucks, General Contractors," North 
                            Manchester
                         Historical Society Newsletter, XI (February, 1994).
               
               Hamilton, Donald E., Hoosier Temples: A Pictorial History of Indiana'
                            High School Basketball Gyms (
                            St. Louis
                        , Mo.: G. Bradley Publishing, 1993).
               Hamm, Thomas D., "The Friends Collection at Earlham College," Library Quarterly, LX (April, 1990).
               Hanlin, George R., and Megan L. McKee, comps., Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History: Index, Vols. 1-5, 1989-1993 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1994).
               Hanou, John T., "Economy of Design: Round Barns in Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Fall, 1994).
               Harstad, Peter T., "He' Gone on Ahead: Harry Ostermann and the Lincoln
                        Highway," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Spring,
                        1994).
               Hays, Will H., Jr., Come Home with Me Now …: The Untold Story of Movie
                            Czar Will Hays, by His Son (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press of Indiana, 1993).
               Hickerson, James L., The Memoranda of James L. Hickerson, I Company, 10th Indiana
                            Volunteer Infantry, Aug. 1861-Sept. 1864, ed. James T. Thompson (Albuquerque, N. M.:
                        The editor, 1993). Order from: The editor, 1209 
                            Lafayette
                         Dr. E., Albuquerque, NM 87106.
               Hinderaker, Eric A., "The Creation of the American Frontier: Europeans and Indians in
                        the Ohio River Valley, 1673-1800" (Ph.D. dissertation, 
                            Harvard
                         University, 1991).
               
                  Historic Indiana 1994: A Guide to Indiana Properties Listed in the National
                            Register of Historic Places ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: Indiana Dept. of Natural Resources, Div. of Historic Preservation and Archeology,
                        1994).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Grant County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1993). Order this and the following six titles from: Historic Landmarks
                        Foundation of Indiana, 340 W. Michigan St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46202.
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Henry County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1993).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Morgan County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1993).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Pike
                             and Lawrence Townships, 
                                Marion County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1994).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Warren
                             Township, 
                                Marion County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1993).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Wayne
                             Township, 
                                Marion County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1993).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, White County: Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1994).
               
                  History of 
                                Switzerland County
                            , Indiana, and Preliminary Chapters to History of 
                                Switzerland County
                            , Indiana (
                            Mt. Vernon
                        : Wind-mill  Publications, 1993). [Reprint of
                        1885 edition, with index added.]
               Holycross, Fred, "
                            Muncie
                        ' Conservative Revivalist Played It Safe," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1994). [Architect Cuno Kibele.]
               Hostetler, Joan E., "The Pictorialism of Mary Lyon Taylor," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Winter, 1994).
               Hubbard, John, From the Poet' House: A Portrait of 
                                New Harmony
                            
                   (
                            New Harmony
                        : The Robert Lee Blaffer Trust, 1990).
               Huffman, Hank, "Robert Ridgway," Outdoor Indiana, LIX
                        (May/June, 1994).
               Huffman, Wallace 
                            Spencer
                        , Indiana Built Motor Vehicles, Centennial Edition, with revisions
                        by David A. and Harry V. Huffman (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1994).
               Hug, Richard W., "Geographic Information Systems (GIs): A Frontier or a
                        ‘Black Box?"’ Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXVIII, 3rd ser. (1993).
               Huntington, Jeff, "An Awkward Age: Old but Not Yet Historic," Indiana Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1994). [Pierre & Wright buildings
                        in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Iliff, David Gerard, Jr., The Lost Tribe of Ben-Hur (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Fall Creek
                         Review, 1994). Order this and the following title from: The author, 4625 Laurel
                        Circle, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46226.
               Iliff, David Gerard, Jr., Post Adjutant at Fort Davis (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Fall Creek
                         Review, 1994).
               Indiana School for the Deaf, The Hoosier, CVI (Fall, 1993). [Several
                        articles about William Willard, founder of the school and pioneer in education of the deaf in
                        Indiana.]
               
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Architecture: Transformations since 1975, ed. Mary Ellen Gadski (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Architectural Foundation, 1993).
               Jerse, Dorothy W., and Judith S. Calvert, 
                     
                                Terre Haute
                            : A Pictorial History (
                            St. Louis
                        , Mo.: G. Bradley Publishing, 1993).
               
                  John Reno: The World' First Train Robber and Self Proclaimed Leader of
                            the Infamous Reno Gang, Seymour, Indiana, 1879, ed. Robert W. Shields (Brownstown: 
                            Jackson County
                         Historical Society, 1993). Order from: The society, 115 N. Sugar St., Brownstown,
                        IN 47220.
               Jones, Kelly K., "The Life and Legacy of Mary Cable," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 57 (August, 1994).
               Joss, Liz, "Celebrated Houses Now in Danger," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1994).
               Joss, Liz, "Modern Mall Dons Historic Garb," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 5 (September/October, 1994). [Incorporation of historic facades
                        into Circle Centre Mall in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Judd, Barbara K., Those 
                                Brown County
                             Artists, ed. M. Joanne Nesbit (
                            Nashville
                        : Nana' Books, 1993).
               
               Kennedy, Rick, "Star Dust Memories: Hoagy Carmichael and Indiana' Gennett
                        Records," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Summer,
                        1994).
               Kesten, Seymour R., Utopian Episodes: Daily Life in Experimental Colonies
                            Dedicated to Changing the World (
                            Syracuse
                        , N.Y.: 
                            Syracuse
                         University Press, 1993).
               Kotzbauer, Amy, "Bargain Basement Open for Business," Indiana
                        Preservationist, No. 5 (September/October, 1994). [Catacombs and other underground structures in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Krom, Norma P. (Deck), "The Stockdale Mill, Roann, Indiana," North 
                            Manchester
                         Historical Society Newsletter, XI (May, 1994).
               Krout, Mary H., "Historic Memories Cling to 
                            Crawfordsville
                        ['] Lane Place," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XIX (July, 1994).
               Kylloe, Ralph, "‘An Aire of Definite Sincerity’: Indiana
                        Hickory Furniture," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI
                        (Winter, 1994).
               LaFollette, William R., "Interactive Television—An Educational Alternative
                        for the Non-Traditional Student," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXVIII, 3rd ser. (1993).
               Langhor, John, "Early 
                            Whitley County
                         Doctors," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXI (June, 1993). [From a talk
                        given in 1964.]
               Lehmberg, O. F., ["Early 
                            Whitley County
                         Medicine"], 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXX (December, 1992). [Reprint of
                        article from the February, 1964, Bulletin.]
               Levin, Daniel L., "Jewish Colony of Whiting," Indiana Jewish
                            History, No. 30 (1994). Order from: Indiana Jewish Historical Society, 203 W. Wayne
                        St., 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , IN 46802.
               Levin, Daniel L., "Twin City Tachlis," Indiana Jewish
                        History, No. 30 (1994). Order from: Address above.
               Lilly, Eli, Early Wawasee Days (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Wawasee Property Owners Assoc., 1993). ["Annotated edition."]
                        Order from: Wiley Spurgeon, 7041 E. Lilly Rd., 
                            Syracuse
                        , IN 46567.
               Linkous, Clovis E., General Electric at 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana: A 110 Year History (
                            Baltimore
                        : Gateway Press, 1994).
               Lockridge, Larry, "Shade of the Raintree," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, VI (Summer, 1994). [Excerpted from author' full-length
                        biography of his father, Ross Lockridge, Jr.]
               
                  Mackey, Indiana: A Centennial Salute, 1893-1993 (
                            Evansville
                        : 
                            Evansville
                         Bindery, 1993). Order from: Alvetta S. Wallace, 530 W. Washington St., 
                            Oakland City
                        , IN 47660.
               Madden, W. C., The Hoosiers of Summer (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press, 1994).
               Marshall, Joan E., "Parents and Foster Parents, Shapers of Progressive Era Child
                        Saving Practices: A Case Study, 
                            Tippecanoe County
                        , Indiana, 1887-1916," Indiana Magazine of History, XC
                        (June, 1994).
               
               Marszalek, John F., "KKK: The 1920s Ku Klux Man in the Midwest," Timeline, XI (March/April, 1994).
               McConnell, Stuart, Glorious Contentment: The Grand Army of the Republic,
                        1865-1900 (
                            Chapel Hill
                        : University of 
                            North Carolina
                         Press, 1992).
               McPherson, Alan, Indian Names in Indiana ([s.l.: s.n.], 1993). Order from:
                        The author, P. O. Box 38, Kewanna, IN 46939.
               McShane, Stephen G., "‘We'll Stick with Dick’: Earl
                        Landgrebe, Watergate, and the Vocal Minority," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, VI (Fall, 1994).
               Memoirs of teaching school in 
                            Whitley County
                        , in 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXX (December, 1992).
               Munro, Heather R., "Grace Marks of 
                            Salem
                        : Back Road Buildings in Indiana," History of
                        Photography, XVII (Autumn, 1993).
               Murray, Thomas E., "The Folk Argot of Midwestern Gangs," Midwestern Folklore, XIX (Fall, 1993).
               Nelson, Daniel, "The Midwest' ‘Interior
                        Mentality,’" Reviews in American History, XXII (June,
                        1994). [Review of Jon C. Teaford' Cities of the Heartland.]
               Neth, Mary, "Leisure and Generational Change: Farm Youths in the Midwest,
                        1910-1940," Agricultural History, LXVII (Spring, 1993).
               
                  New 
                                Marion
                             Memories: A History of 
                                Shelby
                             Township and New 
                                Marion
                             School (New 
                            Marion
                        : New 
                            Marion
                         Memories Committee, 1994). Order from: The committee, P. O. Box 372, 
                            Versailles
                        , IN 47042.
               Newton, Judith Vale, "This Eternal Beauty: Celebrating the Art of the Hoosier
                        Salon," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Fall, 1994).
               Newton, Judith Vale, and Carol Weiss, A Grand Tradition: The Art and Artists of
                            the Hoosier Salon, 1925-1990 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Hoosier Salon Patrons Association, 1993). Order from: The association, 6434 N.
                        College Ave., Suite C, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46220.
               Nichols, Wallie, "Garfield Once Called ‘Binford
                        Station,"’ 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVIII (November, 1993).
               Nolan, Alan T., The Iron Brigade: A Military History (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 1994). [Reprint of 1961 edition.]
               Normand, Kipp, "Art Deco versus Streamlined Modern," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 6 (November/December, 1994).
               Normand, Kipp, "Swap Banal Banking for Baronial," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 4 (July/August, 1994). [Merchants' Bank building in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Odiet, Fred C., 
                     
                                Kokomo
                            -
                                Howard County
                             Sesquicentennial Commemorative Book ([
                            Kokomo
                        ?: s.n.], 1994). Order from: The author, 2310 W. King St., 
                            Kokomo
                        , IN 46901.
               Penick, James Lal, The New Madrid Earthquakes, rev. ed., 4th printing (
                            Columbia
                        : University of 
                            Missouri
                         Press, 1994).
               
               Perry, Rachel, "‘The Ideal Sketching Ground’: The Early Art
                        Colony of 
                            Brown County
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Summer,
                        1994).
               Pickett, Neil, Hudson Institute in 
                                Indianapolis
                            : A Decade of Accomplishments (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The institute, 1994).
               Pitcavage, Mark, "Ropes of Sand: Territorial Militias, 1801-1812," Journal of the Early Republic, XIII (Winter, 1993).
               Plowden, David, "The End of an Era: Great Lakes Steamers," Timeline, XI (January/February, 1994).
               Poinsett, Robert K., "Hoosier Limestone Leaves Rock-Solid Legacy," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5 (September/October, 1994).
               Poston, Lawrence, "Classicist on the Middle Border," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XC (September, 1994). [Harold Whetstone Johnston.]
               Powers, Linda, "A Monumental Project," Outdoor Indiana,
                        LVIII (September/October, 1993). [Restoration of the Indiana State Soldiers' and
                        Sailors’ Monument in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Probst, Ernest G., et al., Indiana Dairies (typescript, 1994). [Limited
                        distribution; reference copy located at the Indiana Historical Society Library.]
               Pugh, Mary, "History of the First Presbyterian Church, [
                            Columbia
                         City]," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXII (September, 1994).
               Quayle, Dan, Standing Firm: A Vice-presidential Memoir (
                            New York
                        : HarperCollins, 1994).
               Ralston, Patrick R., "State Fair," Outdoor Indiana, LVIII
                        (July/August, 1994).
               Reichmann, Ruth, "German Influence on the Automobile Industry," Indiana
                        German Heritage Society Newsletter, X (Summer, 1994).
               Reiter, Jennifer, "Free-Thinking Settlers Simplified Churches," Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June, 1994).
               Reynolds, Larry A., The Mudsock Scrapbook: A Pictorial Perspective of Fishers,
                            Indiana, the Early Years, 1800 to 1960 (Fishers: Hoosier Cider Press, 1993). Order
                        from: The author, P. O. Box 141, Fishers, IN 46038.
               Riggins, Stephen H., "Fieldwork in the Living Room: An Autoethnographic
                        Essay," in The Socialness of Things: Essays on the Socio-Semiotics of
                            Objects (Berlin, Ger.: Mouton de Gruyter, 1994). [Examines author'
                        parents' home in Martin County.]
               Robbins, Coy D., comp., Indiana Negro Registers, 1852-1865 (Bowie, Md.:
                        Heritage Books, 1994).
               
                  Robert Owen and the World of Co-operation, ed. Chushichi Tsuzuki (Tokyo: The
                        Robert Owen Association of 
                            Japan
                        , 1992). Order from: The association, Hokusen-Sha Publishing Co., 3-4-3-503
                        Iidabashi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102, 
                            Japan
                        .
               
               Roberts, George C., "Indiana Political Party Nominations Before 1915,"
                        Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXVIII, 3rd ser. (1993).
               Roberts, George C., "Paul M. Butler and the Democratic Party: Leadership and New
                        Directions in Party Building," in Politics, Professionalism, and
                        Power, ed. John C. Green (
                     Lanham, Maryland
                  : University Press of America,
                        1994).
               Robinson, Robert V., and Carl M. Briggs, "The Rise of Factories in Nineteenth-Century 
                            Indianapolis
                        , [1850-1880]," American Journal of Sociology, XCVII
                        (November, 1991).
               Roeder, Mark A., "Battle of Corydon," Outdoor Indiana,
                        LVIII (July/August, 1993). [Morgan' Raid.]
               Roller, Dick, comp., Indiana Glass Factory Notes (
                            Paris
                        , Ill.: Acorn Press, 1994).
               Ross, V. A., and Art Hadley, Indiana Post Offices (Hope: Indiana Postal
                        History Society, 1993). Order from: Art Hadley, 3407 N 925 E, Hope, IN 47246.
               Ruby, Russell, "Trinity Church [
                            Crawfordsville
                        ] To Celebrate 100th Anniversary," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XIX (May, 1994).
               Rush, Dorothy C., "Early Accounts of Travel to the Falls of the 
                            Ohio
                        : A Bibliography with Selected Quotations, 1765-1833," Filson
                            Club History Quarterly, LXVIII (April, 1994).
               Sander, Bob, "Crossroads: CCC Camp #517," Outdoor Indiana,
                        LIX (March/April, 1994).
               Schick, Susanne Martha, "‘For God, Mac, and Country’: The
                        Political Worlds of Midwestern Germans during the Civil War Era" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                        University of 
                     Illinois, Urbana
                  , 1994).
               Schmidt, Robert F. and Carolyn, "Canal Enthusiasts Unlock Secrets," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5 (September/October, 1994). [
                            Wabash
                         and Erie Canal lock discovered near 
                            Fort Wayne
                        .]
               Schurr, Mark R., Woodland and Early Historic Period Settlement Patterns in the
                            Kankakee Drainage of 
                                La Porte
                             County (Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame, 1993).
               Schwomeyer, Herb, Hoosier Hysteria: A History of Indiana High School Boys
                            Basketball, 8th ed. (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The author, 1993). Order from: The author, 7745 S. River Rd., Apt. B, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46240.
               Selby, Scott, "County Town Was Named after 
                            Alamo
                         Mission," 
                            Montgomery
                         Magazine, XIX (January, 1994). [History of 
                            Alamo
                        , Indiana.]
               Señoras of Yesteryear, Mexican American Harbor Lights (Indiana
                        Harbor, East 
                            Chicago
                        : Señoras of Yesteryear, 1992). Order from Señoras of
                        Yesteryear, 1601 E. Columbus Drive, East 
                            Chicago
                        , IN 46312.
               Sharp, Ronald, Sharp' Chronicles: 
                                Kosciusko County
                             History. Vol. I: From Beginning to 1840; Vol. II: The Formative Years,  1832-1851 (
                            Syracuse
                        : [The author, ca. 1993]). Order from: The author, 1010 N. Huntington St., 
                            Syracuse
                        , IN 46567.
               Shifman, Barry, The Arts and Crafts Metalwork of Janet Payne Bowles (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Indianapolis
                         Museum of Art, 1993).
               Shifman, Barry, Brandt Steele: 
                                Indianapolis
                             Arts & Crafts Designer and Potter (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Indianapolis
                         Museum of Art, 1994).
               Shifman, Barry, "Truth to Material: Janet Payne Bowles, Metalworker," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Winter, 1994).
               Shifman, Barry, "Work Worth Doing: Brandt Steele, Designer and Potter," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Winter, 1994).
               Shigley, J. Robert, The "Jewel of the Valley": A Narrative and
                            Pictorial History of the Springs Valley Area and West Baden
                        Springs, rev. ed. (West Baden Springs: The author, 1991). Order from: West Baden Historical
                        Society, P. O. Box 6, West Baden Springs, IN 47469.
               Shover, Bill, and James Obergfell, Cathedral: Seventy-Five Years (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press, 1993). [Cathedral High School in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Silver, Joel, "Josiah Kirby Lilly, Jr., Collector," AB
                            Bookman' Weekly, XCIV (August 15-22, 1994).
               Slade, Susan, "The House Beautiful in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Winter,
                        1994).
               Smith, Andrew F., "‘The Diploma Pedler’: Dr. John Cook Bennett
                        and the Christian College, New 
                            Albany
                        , Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XC (March,
                        1994).
               Smith, Hugh, "Eleutherian College," Black History News
                            & Notes, No. 55 (February, 1994).
               Smith, Pamela Grenfell, Ecumenical Remembrances: A Scrapbook of the Indiana
                            Council of Churches, 1943-1993 ([s.l.: s.n., 1994]).
               Snodgrass, Marjorie Lagemann, comp., The First Fifty Years, 1912-1962: An Oral
                            History [of Arsenal Technical High School, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ] ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ?: s.n., 1994]). Order from: ATHS History, Box 88433, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46208.
               Steinson, Barbara J., "Rural Life in Indiana, 1800-1950," Indiana Magazine of History, XC (September, 1994).
               Stover, U. C., "Parkersburg: Oldest Community in 
                            Montgomery County
                        ," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XIX (October, 1994).
               Taylor, Robert M., Jr., "As Good as a Buick? The 
                            Ridgeville
                         Senator, 1906-1912," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, VI (Spring, 1994).
               Taylor, Robert M., Jr., "The Selridge Pottery of Shortridge High School, [
                            Indianapolis
                        ]," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Winter,
                        1994).
               
               Taylor, Robert M., Jr., "'ome Special Object’: The Arts and
                        Crafts Society of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Winter,
                        1994).
               Taylor, Robert M., Jr., and Barry Shifman, "Utility Embellished by Skilled Hands: The
                        Arts and Crafts Movement in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Winter,
                        1994).
               Thompson, Joseph F., "This Important Trust": A History of the
                            Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Indiana University School of Medicine (
                            Indianapolis
                        : University Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Inc., 1993).
               [Thomson, Orville], From Philippi to 
                                Appomattox
                            : Narrative of the Service of the 7th Indiana Infantry in the War for the
                        Union (
                            Baltimore
                        : Butternut & Blue, 1993). [Reprint of 1905 edition.]
               Tolzmann, Don Heinrich, Das Ohiotal—The Ohio
                            Valley: The German Dimension (
                            New York
                        : Peter Lang, 1993).
               Tunnelton Area Boys and Girls in World War II, ed. Harold E. Brewer. 2nd ed. (Tunnelton:
                        Tunnelton Area Veterans' Association, 1992). Order from: The association, P. O. Box 67,
                        Tunnelton, IN 47467.
               Wagner, Carri, "
                            Elkhart
                         Benefits from Architect' Poor Health," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1994). [Enoch Hill Turnock.]
               Wagner, Mark J., and Mary R. McCorvie, The Archaeology of Frontier Taverns on the 
                                St. Louis
                            -
                                Vincennes
                             Trace (
                            Springfield
                        : 
                            Illinois
                         State Museum and 
                            Illinois
                         Department of Transportation, 1993).
               Warkel, Harriet G., "A Magazine ‘Perilously Fine’: Joseph Moore
                        Bowles and Modern Art," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI
                        (Winter, 1994).
               Warren, Stanley, "Robert L. Bailey: Great Man with a Thirst for Justice,"
                            Black History News & Notes, No. 55 (February, 1994).
               Way, Peter J., "Rough Labour: The Digging of North American Canals,
                        1780-1860" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                            Maryland
                        , College Park, 1991).
               Weber, Catherine E. Forrest, "Writer Jessamyn West: The Story Teller'
                        Daughter," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VI (Summer,
                        1994).
               "West Point Letters of Cadet Milo S. Hascall, 1848-1850," ed. Stephen E.
                        Towne, Indiana Magazine of History, XC (September, 1994).
               Yates, Brock, "Duesenberg," American Heritage, XLV
                        (July/August, 1994).
               Young, Noraleen A., "To Protect and Improve the Institution of Marriage
                            and the Family": The Social Health Association (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Social Health Association of Central Indiana, 1993).
               
               Zeiger, Todd, "Old Buildings Face Early Withdrawal," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 4 (July/August, 1994). [Historic bank buildings.]
               Zimmerman, Scott, "Western Indiana' 
                            Clay
                         Industries Endangered," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5
                        (September/October, 1994).
               Zwissler, Gayle Yontz, "Memories of Tri Lakes in the 20' and
                        30'," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXII (September, 1994).
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
