
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 67, Issue 1, pages 1-94. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:67+issue:1+year:1971&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Autobiography of Dr. Edward A. Rumely: The 
                        La Porte
                     Years, 1906-1914
            
                    Edited by Philip Morehouse McGarr
                    ∗
                
            
                    Contributed by Mrs. Fanny Scott Rumely
                    ∗∗
                
            The first four completed chapters of the Edward A. Rumely autobiography, "The Formative
                    Years, 1882-1900," were presented in the Indiana Magazine of
                    History in March, 1970. In these chapters Rumely included an account of the events and
                    activities of his early life and his recollection of pioneer days in 
                        La Porte
                    , Indiana. He noted the successful establishment of an agricultural implement business
                    by Grandfather Meinrad Rumely, the wholesome and positive atmosphere in the Rumely home which
                    stimulated his desire to learn, his early parochial education and attendance at 
                        Notre Dame
                     from 1898 to 1900, and finally his decision and plans to continue his education in
                    Europe.
            The next four completed chapters of the Rumely autobiography, "Student Days Abroad,
                    1900-1906," were published in the Indiana Magazine of History in
                    September, 1970. Rumely here described his impressions, observations, and experiences as a medical
                    student in 
                        England
                     and 
                        Germany
                    . His first year was spent at Ruskin Hall in 
                  Oxford, England
               ; a second year at 
                        Heidelberg
                     University, 
                        Heidelberg
                    , 
                        Germany
                    ; and the last four and one half years at 
                        Freiburg
                     University, 
                        Freiburg
                    , 
                        Baden
                    , 
                        Germany
                    . Of particular interest were Rumely's comments on the work-study program at
                    Ruskin Hall; his discussion of the cooperative British labor movement; his mention of correspondence
                    with Leo Tolstoy on proper diet and educational philosophy; his discussion with Rudolph Diesel, the
                    inventor and design engineer; his close friendship with Gerhart von Schulze-Gaevernitz,
                    internationally known professor of economics and government; and his reflections on German culture,
                    education, and government. In the spring of 1906 Rumely received an M.D. degree magna
                        cum laude and completed the requirements for a degree in economics at 
                        Freiburg
                     University.
            While in medical school at 
                        Freiburg
                     Rumely held a part time job at the Licht und Luft Heilandstalt (Light
                    and Air Sanitarium). One of the patients there was Julius G. Gutermann who visited the sanitarium
                    twice a week for treatment of psoriasis. A rapport developed between Gutermann and the young medical
                    student; their association proved exceptionally rewarding and developed into a lifetime friendship.
                    Rumely became a frequent weekend guest at the Villa Orehta, 
                  
                     ∗ Philip Morehouse McGarr is assistant professor of
                            history, 
                                Florida
                             Atlantic University, 
                                Boca Raton
                            , 
                                Florida
                            .
                  
                     ∗∗ Mrs. Fanny Scott Rumely is the widow of
                            Edward A. Rumely.
               
                     the Gütermann family home, which was located on a ten
                    acre estate near Gutach, northeast of Freiburg. Rumely formed a close bond with the entire family,
                    and in particular with the three older boys to whom he was both companion and counselor.1
            
            In the eight years following his graduation from Freiburg Rumely saw the fulfillment of two of his
                    dreams: the building of Interlaken School for Boys and the development of the Rumely OilPull farm
                    tractor. The final installment in this series, "The 
                        La Porte
                     Years, 1906-1914," chapters 12-15 in the autobiography, is primarily concerned
                    with these two endeavors. The author describes his return to the serenity of 
                        La Porte
                    , Indiana, in 1906. Many men in his position would have been content to settle down to a
                    comfortable medical practice and raise a family, but not Rumely. As he indicates in the installment
                    which follows, Rumely practiced medicine in 
                        La Porte
                     for six weeks upon his return, but this was merely a prelude to other activities. Since
                    his days at 
                        Notre Dame
                     and the reading of Jean Jacques Rousseau's Emile and Herbert
                    Spencer's Education: Intellectual, Moral, and Physical he had dreamed of
                    establishing a school where he could experiment with progressive educational methods.
            In the spring of 1907 Rumely located a suitable site in 
                        La Porte
                    , the former private estate of S. B. Collins, to begin his boys' school. He
                    rented the estate property which included a half mile of shore line on Clear
                    Lake, a spacious three story brick building with thirty-five rooms and a large basement
                    adaptable for shop classes, a two story barn, and an ice house.2 The school
                    opened in September, 1907, with thirteen students.
            Rumely made his school a model institution. He integrated the more traditional classroom subjects
                    with shop and farm activities and created an environment conducive to learning. Rumely hoped to
                    influence the entire American public school system, which he regarded as wholly inadequate for a
                    world in flux. He felt that unless innovative 
                  
                     1 The Gütermann children included: Oskar, Richard, Ehrich,
                            Hedwig, Thea, and Annie. The Gütermann family, which was of dual Swiss-German
                            nationality, owned Gütermann Schapp Seide Company, an international silk
                            manufacturing and spinning concern with factories in 
                        Germany, Italy, Austria, France
                     , and later 
                                Belgium
                            , 
                        Poland, Hungary, Argentina
                     , and 
                                Brazil
                            . Information on the Gütermanns may be found in the Edward A. Rumely
                            autobiography, Chapter 10, Edward A. Rumely Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ). This chapter is not being published in the Indiana Magazine of
                                History. Also not to be published is Chapter 11 which deals with Rumely's
                            close association and friendship with three prominent German faculty members at 
                                Freiburg
                             University: Professors Bernh Kroenig, surgeon; Kraske, a biologist; and
                            Kliniks, the developer of twilight sleep.
                  
                     2 Dr. S. B. Collins' estate was located on Pine
                                Lake Avenue in 
                                La Porte
                            . When Rumely purchased the Collins Building in 1907, it was the old Interlaken
                            Sanitarium. The building is now part of the Community Hospital in 
                                La Porte
                            . 
                                Michigan City
                            
                            News Dispatch, October 13, 1964.
               
                    
                    
                  VILLA OREHTA
                  
                  GUTERMANN FAMILY HOME, NEAR FREIBURG GERMAN
                  
                  Courtesy Lilly Library. Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     educational techniques were adopted, America's youth
                    would be unprepared to "meet the problems of its environment."3
            
            To expand Interlaken to accommodate between 125 and 150 boys Rumely needed capital. Therefore, the
                    story of the 
                        La Porte
                     years is also the story of Rumely's involvement with his
                    grandfather's agricultural implement business, the M. Rumely Company. Edward assumed
                    direction of the company shortly after his return to 
                        La Porte
                     when his father's health deteriorated. Rumely brought his gifts for
                    innovation, organization, management, and salesmanship to the business. He saw the need for the
                    development of a heavy duty traction engine that would use a fuel such as kerosene for combustion.
                    Therefore, he persuaded John Alstyne Secor, inventor of a kerosene burning engine, to join the
                    corporation's engineering department. Secor came to 
                        La Porte
                     and developed a method of adapting his engine to the Rumely farm tractor.4 Rumely coined the descriptive trade name, OilPull, for Secor's adaptation. The
                    Rumely OilPull tractor helped to revolutionize American farming practices and made possible
                    extensive farming of the sod prairies of the Great Northwest and 
                        Canada
                    .
            As he describes it in the chapters which follow, success in the implement business provided Rumely
                    with the capital to expand Interlaken. He found an ideal new site for the school near Rolling 
                        Prairie
                    , northeast of 
                        La Porte
                    . The property included 720 acres of beautifully wooded land and a lake. He moved
                    Interlaken to this location in 1911.
            Rumely's description of the beginning of Interlaken and his account of the expansion of the
                    M. Rumely Company conclude the portion of the autobiography published in the Indiana
                        Magazine of History. The great length of the memoirs combined with space limitations for
                    documents make it impossible to print chapters 16-23 of the manuscript which Samuel Thurston
                    Williamson helped Rumely to prepare. These chapters include the author's recollections of
                    Henry Ford's visits to Interlaken; his courtship and marriage to Miss Fanny Scott of 
                        La Porte
                    ; his friendship with Hugo Junkers, German aerodynamics engineer; the failure of the M.
                    Rumely Company due in part to the economic conditions caused by World War I; his purchase of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Evening Mail and subsequent move to 
                        New York
                    
                    
                  
                     3 Edward A. Rumely, "The Dearth of Skilled Labor, Our
                            National Problem and the Interlaken School Movement," Interlaken
                                School Bulletin (
                                La Porte
                            , Ind., n.d.), 4-6, Rumely Papers.
                  
                     4 John A. Secor was born June 28, 1847, in 
                                New York
                             City. His father, Samuel Secor, was an eminent marine engine designer, as had
                            been his grandfather. After moving to 
                                La Porte
                             in 1908 where he resided until his death June 2, 1935, John Secor invented an
                            adaptation of his kerosene combustion engine to the Rumely farm tractor, known as
                            "Kerosene Annie" or the Rumely OilPull Farm Tractor. Both Henry Ford and
                            Thomas A. Edison hailed Secor's invention as an important step in power
                            development. See 
                                La Porte
                            
                            Herald-Argus, "The Story of John A. Secor," July 1, 2,
                            1969.
               
                     City; his close association with the Progressive party and
                    Theodore Roosevelt; and the problems resulting from America's role as a neutral during
                    World War I.
            In addition, a number of uncompleted chapters of the autobiography may be found in the Rumely Papers,
                    Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . These chapters contain Rumely's account of other business interests such as
                    Vitamin Foods, Inc., which pioneered in the introduction of vitamins and vitamin containing foods to
                    the retail market, and the Agricultural Bond and Credit Corporation, which aided farmers in
                    purchasing farm implements and supplies. Rumely also describes his involvement with national
                    political questions and the problems of deflation, including his service as executive secretary to
                    both the Committee for the Nation and the National Committee to Uphold Constitutional Government and
                    his help in establishing the Committee for Constitutional Government.
            In 1959, after forty-four years of public service in 
                        New York
                     state, Rumely retired and returned to 
                        La Porte
                    . He continued to lend active support to those organizations whose purpose and
                    philosophy was consonant with his view of American democratic institutions and the free enterprise
                    system. He remained active, cheerful, and outgoing until his death in November, 1964, at the age of
                        eighty-two.5
            
            Rumely's successful career was a continual search for ways and means of improving American
                    society through education and reform. He was an exceptional man with an unusual combination of
                    talents, one deeply involved in the social and cultural milieu of his time.
            
               
                  5
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, November 24, 1964.
            
            
            
                    CHAPTER 12
                
            
                    MY NEW SCHOOL IDEA TAKES SHAPE1
               
                
            It was while I was studying medicine at 
                        Freiberg
                     and acting as sort of counsellor-companion for the Guetermann boys that my ideas about
                    the school I would found began to take expressive shape. Its basic policy centered around my own
                    educational experience "hand and muscle work as well as brain work and development of the
                    mind." Naturally I was not alone in revolt against traditional education. Many others were
                    aware of the failures of the school to equip the rising generation to meet the problems of its
                    environment. The growth of the industrial system, modern transportation and crowded cities created
                    entirely new environments and wholly unsuited to fulfill entirely the needs of healthy child growth.
                    The existing public school system of the latter half of the 19th century was shaped to meet the
                    needs of another and earlier civilization, when industry was centered in the home where they used to
                    grow their own food, spin and weave their own cloth, make their soap, dip their candles. The
                    majority of the population was agricultural. Father if he happened to be a cabinet maker or
                    blacksmith shaped his wood and forged his metal near his home within sight of his children and each
                    child was called upon while still young to share the parents' activity. It gave not only
                    insight into industrial processes of that day but the child also acquired habits of work, discipline
                    and moral training for its future occupation, and the school was properly a place to which children
                    were sent for a few hours each day to pick up the essentials of reading, writing, spelling, and
                    figuring and a little information about geography and history.
            The traditional school became out of date, chalk and blackboard and books, even when supplemented by
                    so-called manual training 
                  
                            
                        1 The version of the Rumely autobiography which appears below is that
                                prepared by Samuel Thurston Williamson, a family friend of the Rumelys and a
                                professional writer. The "Williamson" manuscript was produced from a
                                typescript of wire recordings provided by Edward A. Rumely and was typed, triple spaced,
                                in pica type. The present editor worked with a carbon copy of this version of the Rumely
                                autobiography on which were a number of additions and/or deletions. Since it was
                                impossible to ascertain exactly when–or by whom–the changes in the
                                "Williamson" manuscript were made, the following practices have been
                                used in preparing the autobiography for publication: words which were obviously added or
                                deleted when the original manuscript was typed have been added or deleted in this
                                reproduction; words which were marked out at a later time have been printed with a line
                                through them; handwritten additions have been reproduced in italics. Throughout the
                                manuscript there are occasional handwritten words which are illegible, repetitive, or
                                seemingly irrelevant. These have been omitted. Obvious typographical
                                errors–such as school for school, move for more, hi shop for bishop, bibical
                                for biblical–have been corrected. Otherwise, spelling, punctuation, and
                                grammar have been retained exactly as in the original. Whenever possible first names of
                                people mentioned have been added in brackets or in footnotes.
                            The order of Chapters 12 and 13, which appear below, was determined by the editor on the
                                basis of internal evidence. Various markings indicate that the order had not been
                                decided prior to the present editing.
                        
               
                     were no longer enough. Our civilization had its own needs. One
                    attempt, of course, to meet the problem of changed environment was the so-called progressive school
                    movement. At that time it was as yet unborn for its great prophet John Dewey was just then beginning
                    to write.2 But the school I had in mind was not an outgrowth of this movement.
            It was the outgrowth of a long experience of my own in schools previously.3 At
                    the parochial school in LaPorte as I have already recalled all grades of students were in a single
                    room with Barney J. Kohn, the teacher. Other students recited and younger students could hear
                    recitations. This enabled me to follow the work of two or three grades ahead of me and then when I
                    went to grammar school I was able in the first year to pass through three grades–or
                    3½ grades–and a year later to enter high school. Now the one-room school house
                    is anathema to modern education but what it supplied 4e-in the way of being able to advance a pupil
                    is something that is still a problem for modern education. As much as school and college did help
                    me, it was my grandfather who had been one of my greatest teachers for he allowed me to do every
                    kind of physical work in the plant. He let me work in the foundry, the machine shop, and the
                    woodworking department, and I had experience such as few young men ever had of seeing all the
                    processes of a manufacturing plant. I knew how much that had given me and then the viewpoint that
                    was afterwards formulated by John Dewey was in my mind and I knew that that kind of experience was
                    very valuable to me. So I wanted a school where the things I had received from practical work would
                    be part of the course and at 
                        Oxford
                     I had discovered that famous sentence of Tolstoy which put into words what I had only
                    before had in thought4
            
            At 
                        Freiberg
                     I wrote in a letter to Father [John B.] Scheier, my Latin teacher at 
                        Notre Dame
                    , "My intention is to become a teacher, 
                  
                     2 John Dewey, 1859-1952, was one of the most important American
                            reformers in the field of education. He suggested numerous innovations to alter the
                            traditional nature of the public school curriculum such as introducing industrial arts
                            subjects in the high schools. Dewey promoted the philosophy of pragmatism and its
                            applicability to education. For information on Dewey's background and the
                            progressive school movement see Morton G. White, The Origins of
                                Dewey's Instrumentalism (
                                New York
                            , 1943); and Merle Curti, The Social Ideas of American
                            Educators (
                                New York
                            , 1935).
                  
                     3 For a discussion of Rumely's education see Philip Morehouse
                            McGarr, ed., "The Autobiography of Dr. Edward A. Rumely: The Formative Years,
                            1882-1900," Indiana Magazine of History, LXVI (March, 1970), 2-3,
                            24-39.
                  
                     4 Rumely includes in his book on Interlaken some comments by Leo
                            Tolstoy: "Do these things for your children," "Let them do all
                            they can for themselves; carry their own water, fill their own jugs, wash up, arrange their
                            own rooms, clean their boots and clothes, lay the table. These things train the children to
                            simplicity, to work, and to self-dependence. If you can add work on the land, if it be but a
                            kitchen garden, that will be well." The quotation is reproduced exactly as it is in
                            Edward A. Rumely, The Interlaken School (
                                Chicago
                            , 1915), 1.
               
                     but I feel that I should be forced by antagonism to the routine
                    in established institutions to begin anew on an independent footing. One idea which I shall
                    certainly strive to put into practice may on account of its nature be accepted by a college in which
                    the sons of mostly wealthy parents are trained; namely, I believe that the separation, in any period
                    of life, of mental from manual labor is a serious mistake. Growing boys should be brought into
                    contact with nature and with work and with manual work several hours each day."
            In the disecting room at 
                        Freiberg
                     a student who worked next to me was a Russian woman about 38 years old. She had been a
                    school teacher and felt that in the Russian villages, where for 20 miles there wasn't a
                    physician, she could fulfill her purpose better by studying medicine. I told her why I was studying
                    medicine, that I too wished to enter educational work and I discussed with her some of my plans.
                    "Why," she said "you should go to Glarissegg and see Werner
                    Zuberbuhler's school."5
            
            This school was located on the south shores of Lake Constance near the Swiss city of Steckborn. It
                    was on the edge of the Lake behind some blue hills at the point where Lake Constance narrowed into
                    the Rhine. Across the Lake lay the province of Baden, in which of course lay the city of Freiberg.
                    This school was one which stemmed from the educational experiment and rural school of Cecil Reddie
                    who had pioneered in a new type of rural education.6 To Abbotsholm in 
                        England
                     came Zuberbuhler and also Dr. Herman Lietz. Lietz became head of three German rural
                    educational schools7 and being in 
                        Germany
                     he had had a much more difficult struggle than had Zuberbuhler. The formalism of the
                    German state educational system was hard to break through and the new school movement represented a
                    revolt against established routine. Its [new school movement's] fundamental principle was
                    an effort to get out of each individual all possibilities that are within him by the maximum amount
                    of spontaneous self-expression. Discipline based upon force and routine was subordinated 
                  
                     5 Werner Zuberbuhler and Wilhelm Frei were cofounders of Glarisegg in
                            Steckborn, 
                                Switzerland
                            . They obtained many of their ideas on experimental rural education from their
                            visit to Dr. Cecil Reddie's pioneer rural school in Abbotsholme, 
                                England
                            . Ibid. 5.
                  
                     6 In 1889 Cecil Reddie began at Abbotsholme, 
                        Derbyshire, England
                     ,
                            a new school, the purpose of which was to "develop harmoniously all the powers of
                            the boy–to train him in fact to live, and become a rational
                            member of society." According to Reddie training in the school included
                            "(1) physical and manual, (2) artistic and imaginative, (3) literary and
                            intellectual, and (4) moral and religious." Cecil Reddie, Abbotsholme (
                                London
                            , 1900), 21, 24.
                  
                     7 In 1896 Dr. Herman Lietz came to teach at Reddie's school;
                            in 1898 he opened a school of his own, Landerziehungsheim, at Ilsenburg in the
                                Harz Mountains, 
                                Germany
                            . Other schools headed by Lietz included Haubinda in Thuringia, Schloss
                            Bieberstein near 
                                Frankfort
                            , both in 
                                Germany
                            , and Gladyseck in 
                                Switzerland
                            . Rumely, Interlaken School, 5; Reddie, Abbotsholme, 254-56; Sir Michael E. Sadler, ed., Moral Instruction
                                and Training in Schools: Report of an International Inquiry (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1909-1910), II, 228-29
               
                     in these new schools of Lietz, and Reddie's and
                    Zuberbuhler. Punishment was avoided except in very rare cases and as a last resort. Dr. Lietz placed
                    a low estimate upon the formalism of drill and routine that was customary in the Prussian schools.
                    The school authorities sensed that the spirit of his school movement was subversive of their mode of
                    training to obedience and submission, hence the Lietz schools suffered from serious handicaps
                    imposed upon them by official 
                        Germany
                    . Zuberbuhler at Glarissegg had had less trouble and at the time that I was told of his
                    school it was already operating and assured of success.
            At my first visit to Glarissegg I sought out Werner Zuberbuhler but found him very short with me. He
                    almost shooed me off the place. He had been over-run with visitors and had no time to answer
                    questions. So I went. I sat down in the yard and watched the boys working. They were trying to move
                    a huge stone or boulder. The teacher would bear down on a lever once, then a couple of boys each one
                    in turn would bear down and never once haul together. The boulder remained immovable. It was evident
                    that the teacher who supervised the moving of the boulder had never tackled such a solid job before.
                    So I watched the goings on for about ten minutes, then I remembered how my grandfather would whistle
                    when he wanted to move a boiler and get everyone to move at the same time. So I took off my coat,
                    forgot myself completely and joined the group and I said "Don't do anything till I
                    tell you to start." Before long the boys began to follow my direction and they exerted
                    their effort all at the same time and we just walked the stone away to where it was to be placed.
                    Meanwhile Mr. Zuberbuhler had been watching and he sent a boy with this message
                    "I've seen that performance with the boulder and if you know how to handle
                    students that way, come and stay with us awhile." Then he came to meet me in a very cordial
                    way and made inquiry about my studies. He asked about the length of my vacation and then as I turned
                    to leave he called one of the students and said "Go with Herr Rumely to the Inn at the
                    village about a quarter of a mile off. Get his bag and belongings and place him in our guest room
                    upstairs. I wish him to be our guest as long as he will stay."
            I was soon acquainted with all the students in the school and the teachers. About 35 of the boys were
                    Swiss, a few Italian, a few German, and a handful from other countries like Russia. Werner
                    Zuberbuhler and I became good friends. When I left we corresponded and I visited the school
                    thereafter often. He sent school students on excursion trips to visit me at 
                        Freiberg
                    . I became intimately acquainted with the teachers of his school and met the woman who
                    was to become his wife. And when their marriage was to take place Mr. Zuberbuhler asked me to take
                    charge of the school and of its group of students  during his
                    wedding trip to Corsica. This I did and I wrote my experience in a long letter to my father and this
                    letter I later incorporated in the appendix of my Interlaken school catalogue. Here it is.
            (Pick up letter from Dr. Rumely to his father.)8
            
            I took groups of boys on bicycle trips over the Alps to 
                        Italy
                     and made other trips with them to 
                        Switzerland
                    . We visited a meeting of the Cantons–one of the Swiss states–at
                    which all the 10,000 voters came together at Attppenzell in the public square to decide matters of
                    state the ensuing year. As we walked over the mountains toward this village we moved along with
                    hundreds of these voters carrying an umbrella and sword strapped together and used as sort of a
                    cane. At Appenzell the public square was fenced off guarded by soldiers and nobody was permitted to
                    enter inside as a voter unless he wore the sword. It was an old rule of the Canton that no man who
                    could not defend the country could participate in its decisions. This was an indication that
                    democracy must be maintained by universal service of men who guard their own liberty. This story I
                    told and retold in the 
                        New York
                     Evening Mail and it inspired many to assume the initiative of pushing the thought of
                    universal compulsory service in the 
                        United States
                    .
            My contact with Zuberbuhler and with Dr. Leitz and subsequently Dr. Reddie of the Abbotsholm school
                    greatly aided me in developing my own ideas. These teachers and the literature of new school
                    movements greatly aided me in developing my own ideas. None of these schools and none of these
                    educational ideas seemed to appreciate the importance of muscle training and muscle perception.
                    There's a difference between manual training and the recognition of what muscle training
                    contributes to education, for there is more involved than merely muscular exercise and development
                    of the body. It was and still is my concept that the muscle is basic for mental development. I
                    experienced that when I returned from 
                        London
                     to begin my cramming studies for my medical degree at 
                        Freiberg
                    . I was mentally fagged and worn out and those few days up in the mountains skiing
                    restored my mental health. Also, Dr. Gaevernitz informed me that by tiring him out by muscular work
                    or long walks that it gave him the equivalent of two more hours of mental work a day.9
            
            Few realize how much muscle means to the brain, yet the brain is taught by the muscle as well as by
                    the two nerves of ear and eye, 
                  
                     8 A portion of Rumely's letter to his father has been
                            published in Rumely, Interlaken School, 48-53. It has not been inserted
                            here.
                  
                     9 For Rumely's account of his friendship with Professor
                            Gerhart von Schulze-Gaevernitz see Philip Morehouse McGarr, ed., "The Autobiography
                            of Dr. Edward A. Rumely: Student Days Abroad, 1900-1906," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, LXVI (September, 1970), 225-32.
               
                     and fully 95% of our life is guided by muscular
                    sensation. The baby depends upon it almost wholly during the long period of its early life. Its
                    first education is a physical education, an education of the muscles. Its development through the
                    training of life and experience is a type of the later education that is practical. Through its
                    every muscle–above all by its hands–it drinks in the knowledge of the outside
                    world. Man dominates over all other living creatures because he has a thumb which can take hold of
                    material and because with his fingers he can measure weight resistance and inner properties of the
                    material which he cannot get through eye or nose. Man is an animal that has a highly developed hand
                    to take hold of things, for example, when one whittles wood–pine or oak
                    wood–one notices how different these materials are. He sees the color and remembers that
                    one is pine wood and the concept of that pine wood, how light it is and how easily cut is something
                    that you must experience first through your hands. As the human race went through a muscular state
                    like that in which savage people still exist today so the child goes through in epitome the history
                    of the race. But now so-called civilized man has become a new sort of cave dweller. Even in our
                    suburban home we have accepted the automatic way of apartment house life and industry has passed
                    forever from the home to the factory. Thus the old school, the traditional school, became out of
                    date and it was necessary for a new school [,] for children now need the training of their muscles
                    as well as of their minds and they need the training of their minds through the muscles. I have
                    already shown how the baby goes through the stages of the human race, but through every muscle,
                    above all the hands, man drinks in knowledge of the outside world. Nor is this importance of the
                    muscle lessened, either in later childhood or adult years. The eye, through the nerve of seeing,
                    teaches us form and color. We see iron–the gray metal–its crystals, its
                    lustre, its surface but we need to bend and break it, we need to weld and hammer it, to file it, to
                    test it and put it to the mechanical uses with our hands before we can truly know much about that
                    metal which has become the main carrier of our civilization. The hands interpret what the eyes see,
                    and the eyes become efficient alone through their muscles. The mechanism of the eye is as perfect in
                    the babe as in the grown man. Yet the babe stretches out its hand for the moon as if it were within
                    reach. In the end he learns to gauge distance and he does this through the muscles of the eye. We
                    now know that we are able to estimate distance by the eye movement that is necessary to obtain a
                    perfect focus that our whole conception of space is built not upon eye sensation but muscular
                    sensation.
            Indeed muscles express the most intimate sensations of the soul. The Romans made a true guess at them
                    which is preserved in our  word
                    "emotion"–a moving out of sensation through the muscles. Our feelings
                    are most vividly portrayed by gestures and the shifting play of expression of the facial muscles
                    give the face. See an angry man through a glass door and you need not hear a word to know his state
                    of mind and so joy, grief, love, every mood and passion have their instantly recognized physical
                    expressions. And so close is the relation between mind and muscles that the counterpart is true. Try
                    the old actors trick, mimic a man's expression and you'll have the key to his
                    thought. Assume the expression of a laugh and the sober mind will at once feel the effect. Of
                    course, play and organized sports are essential to our organized civilization, but when you use
                    tools against materials you get what organized play doesn't give you, you get muscular
                    coordination through organized play but you don't get the knowledge of the properties of
                    the material. I had much of that in my Grandmother Rumely's home. She made soap and apple
                    butter and the work activities of the home were still a tradition and it is those work activities,
                    the feeling that manual labor is as dignified as mental work [that] is one of the essentials of
                    modern civilization and an essential that in many places has been seriously neglected. For it is
                    through manual labor that one discovers that enterprise demands the cooperation of others thus one
                    learns the laws of social interdependence and becomes either a forceful leader or a patient helper
                    with reference to the requirements of common ends.
            These, in brief, were the fundamentals behind my plans for a new school–plans I was now
                    ready to put into effect. Although I was but 24 at the time, they had been hammered out over a
                    period of a score of years on the anvil of personal experience and trial and error in my own
                    education. And when I finally had in my hand my medical university degree, I was ready to put those
                    ideas into practice. I paid my last visits to Glarissegg and, as I have related, made my final
                    journey to 
                        Italy
                     with the Guetermanns and at 
                        Genoa
                     boarded a Hamburg-American liner which continued on to Naples before turning around and
                    heading for 
                        New York
                    .10
            
            Knowing Naples from my student trips to that city and being very fond of it, I looked forward to the
                    stop there between nine in the morning and ten at night, when my ship was scheduled to sail. I went
                    ashore and revisited the town. After dark I headed back to the harbor and the landing stage where a
                    launch would take me back to the ship, but I lost my way. When I reached the harbor the last boat
                    had left. With some difficulty I found a fisherman about 23 years old, and a 13-year-old boy and
                    engaged them in their boat to haul me 
                  
                     10 Rumely describes his trip to 
                                Italy
                             with the Giitermanns in Chapter 10 of the autobiography. See Edward A. Rumely
                            autobiography, Chapter 10, Edward A. Rumely Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
               
                     out to the liner. The deal was two lira. About half way out, the
                    elder man stopped rowing. The boy was behind me on the end with a steering oar. He said
                    "Not two lira but twenty." I surmised that if I yielded and offered him twenty
                    lira he might just as well raise the fare to two hundred lira, so I decided the best thing was to
                    stand pat. Putting my hand as if reaching for a pistol, I said "No–two lira is
                    the bargain." The man would not move. But I heard the boy behind me move about, and not
                    wishing to be hit over the head with a steering oar I crowded up close to him so that if I should be
                    attacked I could throw the boy into the water and have only the man to deal with. Then I squeezed
                    him against the seat to force the pair to proceed. After about a minute of this the boy waved his
                    hand to his companion–I thought a sign that he had had enough of the pressure and wanted
                    him to row ahead, which the older man did. In a short time [we] were at the ship's ladder.
                    I stepped out of the boat and breathed easier, thinking that I had made a narrow escape.
            I walked up the companionway and watched the boatmen depart, then went down to my stateroom. I
                    reached for my purse. It was gone! I felt in my pocket for some bills. They too were gone! The only
                    money that remained was a few silver coins–about 12 German marks and some pfennig and
                    small Italian coins. Between 
                        Genoa
                     and 
                        Naples
                     I met a girl who had been studying music abroad–Miss Michaelson, afterwards
                    a very famous pianist. Instead of money enough to get from 
                        New York
                     to LaPorte, I was now without funds to pay tips on the boadi and cut a figure before
                    Miss Michaelson.
            On the first day out of Naples, I saw a few passengers playing chess for money. I watched them, sized
                    up their abilities, then entered the game. At 
                        Notre Dame
                     for a period of time I had been winner in chess tournaments among other students. While
                    I had not played chess for many months, under the necessity that confronted me I put up a fairly
                    good game and won. Before long my funds had increased from twelve to forty marks and I had reason to
                    be thankful for those summer months on "C" Street in LaPorte when I played chess
                    with Father Messman and pulled at a length of binder twine which rocked the cradle of my baby sister
                    Florence, across the street.11 I raised my bets and soon had enough money to
                    entertain Miss Michaelson occasionally and to tip the ship's stewards in the style to which
                    they were accustomed.
            
               
                  11 For a fuller description of these activities see McGarr, "The
                        Formative Years," 25.
            
            
            
                    CHAPTER 13
                
            
                    "KEROSENE ANNIE"
                
            I reached 
                        New York
                     with little more money in my pocket than Grandfather [Meinrad] Rumely had when he
                    landed at Castle Garden fifty seven years before.12 Fortunately, Father and
                    Mother met me at the boat and helped me get my books and souvenirs through customs. They appeared as
                    glad to see me as I was to see them and their curiosity was as great as my certainty as to what I
                    proposed to do when I finally settled down, as they hoped, in LaPorte. Only I didn't tell
                    them–then.
            Arriving at LaPorte my reunion with my brothers and sisters was almost like encountering a new
                        family.13 When I had left the country nearly six years before, none of them
                    was grown up and 1 or 2 were scarcely out of the cradle. Now I had brothers and sisters who were
                    young men and women. I was in splendid physical condition, thanks to my mountain climbing and
                    skiing, but when I tried out my brothers' strength in wrestling, and four of them put me on my back, while with the fifth I could only maintain a tie. One
                    couldn't remain a vegetarian long at a Rumely table, so I gave up the practice I began at 
                        Heidelberg
                    .
            My family received my declared intention to start a boy's school with as much bewilderment
                    as when I announced I was going to 
                        Oxford
                     to study for the priesthood. I was already familiar with the previous comment
                    "We thought you went to Europe to study to be a priest, and then you decided to be a
                    doctor. And now that you have become a doctor you want to start a school."
            It was apparent that I would get no help from my family to realize my ambition to start a school.
                    Fortunately for my state of mind, Dr. [J. H. William] Meyer, a friend of mine from boyhood, wanted
                    to go to his ranch in 
                        Colorado
                     for a few weeks and asked me to take over his practice. He knew that I did not intend
                    to stay in medicine and therefore I would not take any patients away from him. I practiced for about
                    six weeks. Medicine fascinated me and I got on well with the patients. Had I continued medical
                    practice, I believe I would have chosen obstetrics and followed up for two or three years with the
                    care and supervision of the infants I might deliver. 
                  
                     12 Meinrad Rumely immigrated from 
                                Germany
                             to the 
                                United States
                             and arrived in 
                                New York
                             City in 1848. Since the Castle Garden immigrant depot was not in operation
                            until 1855, presumably he was admitted through the immigration center located on
                            Ward's Island in the East River. Later, in 1892, Ellis Island
                            became the entry point for immigrants. See Maldwyn Allen Jones, American
                                Immigration (
                                Chicago
                            , 1960), 128-29.
                  
                     13 According to Mrs. Fanny Scott Rumely, Joseph and Margaret Rumely
                            had nine living children at the time of Edward's return from Europe in 1906. He was
                            the oldest; then came Joe, Leo, Cornelius, Vincent, John, Florence, Helen, and
                        Cecelia.
               
                    
                    
                  THE RUMELY FAMILY
                  
                  SEATED, FROM LEFT: CORNELIUS, MRS. STANDING, FROM LETT: JOSEPH RUMELY, FLORENCE, JOSEPH, FAT VINCENT, LEO, JOE, HELEN,
                                EDWARD.
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            
                  
               
                     I had always thought that the obstetrician should do more than
                    merely deliver babies–he could render important service in their first years of
                    development.
            My efforts to start a school were further retarded by conditions in M. Rumely Co. Grandfather Meinrad
                    had died two (?) 1902 years before.14 He had left his estate
                    to his children with major portions going to my Uncle William [N.], who had handled the mechanical
                    side of the business, and to my father [Joseph H.], who had handled sales and finance.
            My father's health had given out. He had alternate periods of depression when he would make
                    few decisions and periods of exaltation when he made decisions that were not wise. Will Rumely being
                    interested primarily in machinery and mechanics was habit-bound in his thinking. As a result the
                    business had become virtually stagnant.
            The aggregate capital of the plant was about $1 million and the company had approximately
                    5% of the total threshing machine business. Its annual turnover was around
                    $800,000 a year. The profit had shrunk to $40,000 a year.15 But this did not come from the operation of making and selling engines and threshers. That
                    activity broke even. The profit was the equivalent of the interest earned by some
                    $800,000 of farmers notes which the company owned. Here was a concern building machinery
                    whose profit came solely from interest on time payments on those machines.
            The threshing machine market had become saturated. While the country was opening up and expanding and
                    new lands were planted to wheat the capacity of threshing machine plants had increased but now no
                    new lands were opening up, expansion ceased and there was more plant capacity to build threshers and
                    engines than the market could consume.
            Indeed, the market was oversold. A threshing outfit represented $2500 or more of
                    investment. And an owner required from forty to fifty days' operations from one farm to
                    another to make a profit. But in the early 1900's so many threshing outfits were at work
                    that the average thresher had only 20 or 30 days' operation which made it difficult to earn
                    and pay for the machine. Consequently threshing outfits were sold with no cash down and from 3 to 5
                    years time to pay. This was the situation when I returned from Europe.
            When Dr. Meyers came back from his vacation and resumed his 
                  
                     14 Meinrad Rumely died in 1904 at age eighty-one. See E. D. Daniels,
                                A Twentieth Century History and Biographical Record of 
                                    La Porte County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1904), 407.
                  
                     15 In 1906 another Indiana agricultural firm, the Gaar Scott Company
                            of 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, had sales totaling $2,218,838.00, and the net profits were
                            $253,238.00. See Reynold M. Wik, Steam Power on the American
                            Farm (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1953), 257, 204.
               
                     practice I went down to the Rumely plant to help out my father.
                    I soon realized what the problems of the company were. I understood the business because as a boy
                    from ten to eighteen I had worked in the office and copied the letters and had seen all the
                    correspondence in and out, and had from that an understanding of all aspects of the business from
                    the office end; while from my grandfather's interest, enabling me to see every part of the
                    factory, I had acquired an understanding of the factory end of the business. It was two months
                    before I was put on the payroll, and then I had to put myself on for $83.33 a
                    month–$1000 a year. Without any formal assignment of authority, more and more
                    authority passed to me.
            Now I had a chance to develop the idea of substituting an engine for animal power
                    plowing–an idea that had been in my mind ever since that night I had drunk beer with
                    Rudolph Diesel in 
                        Heidelberg
                     and that dinner in 
                        London
                     with Professor von Schulze Gaevernitz's friends who discussed the opening up
                    of 
                        Canada
                    . I had found that in a few places in 
                        America
                     experiments were under way to adapt the steam engine to plowing.16
                    But many of them had failed because of attempts to adapt the threshing engine to the plow and the
                    engine had not put its full power through gears to [a] draw bar that pulled the load. The problem
                    was to strengthen the gears so that the full power of the engine could be put into traction to draw
                    plows. The Rumely Company had developed probably before any other threshing machine concern strong
                    gears. This was after my brother Leo, who came back from a sales trip in 
                        Kansas
                     to insist that the gear be widened from 3 to 5 inches. The engineers declared that this
                    was more strength than needed. "How much" asked Leo "would it cost us to
                    add a two inch width to the gears?" "Not over $15 to
                    $20" I said. "It costs me" Leo replied "about
                    $200 of sales effort to overcome doubt in farmers' minds whether these gears
                    will stand up. So why save $20 of metal and sacrifice $200 worth of sales
                    effort?" Thus it was that the Rumely engines had the easily visible gear strength to draw
                    plows all of which gave us an early start in steam plowing.
            The opening of such a market seemed to be a golden opportunity for The Rumely Company. Two of our
                    buildings opposite each other on 
                        Madison
                     Street were connected by an overhead bridge that had been painted red since it had been
                    built many years before. One day I ordered the painter to put on it a sign "Plowing,
                    Threshing, and Hulling." William Rumely stopped the painting, came in to my office 
                  
                     16 For Rumely's discussion with Diesel and his dinner in 
                                London
                             see McGarr, "Student Days Abroad," 214-16, 235-37. For a
                            discussion of American experiments to adapt the steam engine to power plowing from 1885-1912
                            see Wik, Steam Power, 82-107.
               
                     and said: "That sign is wrong. ‘Steam
                    Engines, Threshers, and Clover Haulers’ is the wording." I said "Uncle
                    William, the big end of this business is going to be plowing; and besides, how long has that bridge
                    been up there?"
            He said "fifteen or eighteen years."
            I said "You never painted anything on it and now, when I want to paint what belongs there,
                    you stop it. The wording that I gave you is the wording that is going on that sign."
            That marked the day when William Rumely's authority over the business passed; from that time
                    on it was under my direction, although my uncle still retained his financial interest and official
                    position as president.
            I begin to push the market for steam plowing in this and the Ideal Threshing Machine, which at that
                    time was just being developed, and since then became the standard machine more widely used than any
                    other in the country. And to inspire district salesmen of the Rumely Company to wear out more
                    shoe-leather and less seats of trousers and get out and get business, I took two pages in the
                    Thresherman's Review with the heading "There Must Be a Reason for the Success of
                    The Rumely Company and its Steady Growth in Volume."17 This was in
                    1907, a year of financial panic. And the activity of The Rumely Company that I had spurred up
                    greatly disturbed A. B. Farquahr of York, Penna., who had been one of my grandfather's best
                        friends.18 He telephoned me to meet him in 
                        Chicago
                     where he said "I think you should know that a very hard year is coming. If you
                    try to do more business you will fail and incur great expense. I know that your grandfather would
                    want me to advise you thus. I expect the Farquahr Co. will only do 65% of its normal
                    volume of business."
            But Mr. Farquahr's business was serving the agricultural market of the East; they were not
                    strong in 
                        Kansas
                     and other markets where the need for tractors and other tools was opening up. So that
                    the opportunity we saw was not clear to my grandfather's friend.
            Instead of reducing we laid our plans for 125% of our normal volume. Receipts increased
                    that year from $800,000 to $1,250,000 and our profits instead of
                    $40,000 were $140,000. The time was right for settlement of new land of the
                    still unused lands of 
                  Texas, Kansas
               , the Dakotas, 
                        Montana
                     and especially of western 
                        Canada
                    . 
                  
                     17 Edward A. Rumely, "There Must Be a Reason for the Success
                            of the Rumely Company and Its Steady Growth in Volume," Thresher-men's Review, XVI (1907).
                  
                     18 A. B. Farquhar started his career in the 1850s as a
                            machinist's apprentice in William Dingee's machine shop in 
                                York
                            , 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . Within a short time he was part owner of the Dingee Company and by the 1880s
                            had established the A. B. Farquhar Company of York, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , which specialized in the manufacture of threshing machines. Wik, Steam Power, 31, 34, 92, 96. See also A. B. Farquhar, The First
                                Million Is the Hardest (
                                New York
                            , 1922).
               
                     Some of the men who had gone out as pioneers in this territory
                    had bought steam plowing engines to break this tough prairie land–some of it with
                    undergrowth so dense that it was impossible to use horses.
            The steam engine, however, had great disadvantages. It consumed a ton to a ton and a half of coal a
                    day and eight times as much water. In districts where the ground water was alkaline it was
                    impossible to keep the engine boiler in condition. I realized that what these men needed was a new
                    dependable tractor power which was not then on the market. We gathered reports from salesmen from
                    all parts of the country and our branch managers made a study which convinced me that the time for
                    plowing by the internal combustion engine had arrived. A study of the fuel situation showed that
                    gasoline was scarce and increased demand for it would increase its scarcity and price. On the other
                    hand, kerosene was plentiful and cheap. This was before discovery of the
                    "cracking" process by which crude oil was subjected to fractional distillation; at
                    one temperature crude oil yielded its gasoline, at another its kerosene was drawn off, and the more
                    gasoline was distilled, the more comparatively unwanted kerosene resulted.19
            
            Accordingly I outlined a policy of building a kerosene engine instead of a gasoline one. The dream I
                    had since my meeting with Diesel was becoming realized. At the same time another dream of mine was
                    approaching realization. I had hired the old Collins estate for $1000 and had sent out
                    circulars announcing the opening in the fall of 1908 of Interlaken School. My adventures in this
                    educational pioneering require separate chapters. I was living at the school but spending most of my
                    working days at the Rumely plant.
            M. Rumely Company engineers worked with steam and designed for steam; their only acquaintance with
                    the internal combustion engine was with the occasional automobile of which up to that time only
                    150,000 had been built but there was some talk that a man named Henry Ford had bought land to build
                    a huge plant in Highland Park, 
                        Michigan
                    , just outside of 
                        Detroit
                    . We had no internal combustion engine experts. William Rumely told me that he had met
                    at a Fair in the East John A. Secor who had an idea for an oil-burning engine and might be the man I
                    was looking for.
            We sent for Secor who came to LaPorte and explained that his grandfather had designed the steam
                    engine for one of the first steamboats on the Hudson [River] and that since
                    that time his family had 
                  
                     19 The "cracking" process was patented by Luther
                            Atwood in 1892 and soon spread throughout the petroleum industry. The yield of kerosene was
                            increased approximately 25 per cent because of this process of fractional distillation. For
                            a discussion of the "cracking" process see Ralph W. Hidy and Muriel E.
                            Hidy, History of Standard Oil Company (
                                    New Jersey
                                ): Pioneering in Big Business, 1882-1911 (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1955-1956), I, 90-91.
               
                     been marine engineers. Secor lived with me at Interlaken School
                    for about 15 months and we became close friends. All of our financial dealings were on the basis of
                    absolute trust. On a verbal agreement, Secor surrendered his entire patent rights except in the
                    marine field in return for $212,000 of M. Rumely Company stock.
            Secor believed the problem of a plowing engine was similar to that of an ocean boat in that both had
                    to have great reserve strength. The plowing engine to surmount a hill or negotiate more difficult
                    and tough spots in the soil would have to have reserve power. On this basis we started designing the
                    Oil Pull tractor. In about six months Secor and his draughtsmen had worked the design for the engine
                    out and four months later the first test machine was completed. Within a short time it was operating
                    satisfactorily.
            Our kerosene tractor had virtually the same traction mechanism though half the weight [of] the Rumely
                    steam tractor which had proved so sturdy under the severest conditions. It replaced steam engine and
                    boiler with a light but strongly made internal combustion engine driven by kerosene broken into a
                    fog of fine globules. On light loads, only kerosene was drawn into the carburetor; on heavy loads as
                    much water as kerosene was fed into the mixture. Two to three 2½ to 4
                    gallons of kerosene were required to plow one acre.
            Exhaust and a boxlike cooling system were attached to the chassis over the front wheels. Instead of
                    water the cooling medium was oil which had several advantages over water. Oil has a higher boiling
                    point. It does not rust the system's parts nor does oil deposit sediment. As a result the
                    life of an Oil Pull radiator was as long as that of the tractor itself. As time went on the tractor
                    was improved; it became lighter as well as more powerful but its basic operation was the same as in
                    the first model. Many of these tractors were used 30 years or longer.20
            
            In the meantime, spring and the plowing season had arrived. Our great test had come. About ten one
                    morning we moved the engine out to a 40 acre field south of LaPorte. Immediately after luncheon we
                    were to see it plow for the first time. A number of the executives in the business and I sat under a
                    tree eating our lunch. Across the field was the tractor and we saw a man climbing over it. I asked
                    who he was, and test crewmen said they did not know. Shortly after the stranger walked towards his
                    car. I told Arthur Cromwell, my chauffeur, to follow him and tell me where he went. Meanwhile a
                    two-hours test of the engine surpassed our rosiest expectations.
            
               
                  20 From 1908 until about 1930 the M. Rumely Company and its successor in
                        1916, the Advance-Rumely Company, made OilPull tractors in 
                            La Porte
                        , Indiana. Sixteen different models were made, ranging in weight from three to
                        fourteen tons. 
                            La Porte
                        
                        Herald-Argus, June 25, 26, 28, 1969.
            
            
            
               KEROSENE ANNIE
               
               ONE OF THE FIRST RUMELY O
                            
                                IL
                            
                         PULL TRACTORS
               
               Courtesy Mrs. Fannie Scott Rumely
            
            
            
               ONE OF THE RUMELY FACTORIES, BUILT C. 1909-1910.
               Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               RUMELY IDEAL THRESHER, STEAM TRACTOR, AND O
                            
                                IL
                            
                         PULL TRACTOR, C. 1910
               Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloominton
            
            
            Agricultural history was being made that afternoon on the 40 acre field south of LaPorte. For what we
                    were witnessing was the end of an epoch which began, far back beyond recorded history, when man
                    first drew a forked stick through the soil. More human labor was spent for plowing than for any
                    other daily need. We were witnessing certain proof of a new epoch which opened the world's
                    last great power market to mechanical motors. Other internal combustion tractors would follow, but
                    with our first successful one, we had a head start.
            Not only was power plowing to open new territory but by doing away or eliminating the necessity of 18
                    million horses on our farms that liberated one acre in every five heretofore required for animal
                    subsistence. The estimated 50 million acres no longer needed for the feed of farm horses, slightly
                    more than the combined cultivated area of 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                    . For every horse we don't have to feed, four more persons can be fed or a
                    total of 70 million people. At the end of the American Revolution a bushel of wheat represented
                    between 2 and 3 hours of toil, tractor-drawn plows, harrows and drills and 12 foot combines all
                    today have cut time to ten minutes.21
            
            All this was not (?) in my mind that afternoon outside LaPorte. The most immediate problem then was
                    how to get back to town for when we were ready to leave Arthur had not returned and we had to
                    telephone for another car to take us in.
            About five o'clock, Arthur turned up at the office. "What do you mean," I
                    said, "taking us out to the field, and then leaving us." He said "I did
                    what you told me, I followed that man. He went straight to 
                        South Bend
                     and the office of the Standard Oil Company."
            The next time I went to 
                        Chicago
                     I called upon met on the train a regional manager of the Standard Oil
                    Company and an old family friend. "Guilfoyle," I said, "you people have
                    your nerve! We work eighteen
                    10 months to build a tractor, then take it out to test it; and before we have a
                    close look at it, one of your men is climbing all over it."
            He said: "Our company furnishes lubricating oil for tractors and we just wanted to see what
                    kind of oil yours would use. I had instructions from 
                        New York
                     to follow what you are doing." He wouldn't tell me how he knew when
                    we were to test the tractor but I found that a telephone call had been made from near our factory to 
                        South Bend
                     on the forenoon of the test. One of the test crew was a Standard Oil employee and had
                    been reporting our progress.
            
               
                  21 For a discussion of Rumely's ideas on agricultural machinery,
                        power plowing, and machinery replacing men and horses see Edward A. Rumely, "The
                        Passing of the Man with the Hoe," The World's Work, XX
                        (August, 1910), 13246-58; and Lynn Webster Ellis and Edward A. Rumely, Power and
                            the Plow (
                            New York
                        , 1911).
            
            
            This seemed to be an appropriate time for a talk at Standard Oil Company headquarters in 
                        New York
                    . At 26 
                        Broadway
                     I called upon L. J. Drake, whose father drilled the first oil well at 
                        Titusville
                     in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and later became president of the Standard Oil Company of Indiana.22 "Mr. Drake," I said, "it's a strange
                    thing–your man examined our tractor before we had a chance to see it in operation
                    ourselves." "We have a surplus of kerosene," he said, "and
                    because trade papers announced that you were experimenting with a kerosene-burning engine we were
                    interested, and Guilfoyle carried out our instructions very efficiently. We meant no harm to
                    you–in fact, we meant to encourage, because we have already tried to get friends of ours
                    to bring out a kerosene-burning engine. There is a shortage of gasoline, and to make gasoline for
                    automobiles we would have to make a lot of kerosene that we can't sell. Therefore the
                    market for kerosene is keen–we would be very much interested."
            
                    more to be added here23
               
                
            Up to now we had never thought of a suitable name for this tractor. Some of the boys in the
                    shop–a few of them being twice my age–had their own name: "Kerosene
                    Annie." One day I said to my secretary, Charlie Beal, "Charlie, don't let
                    me go home any night until I have put down two or three names for the tractor."
            We set down about 50 names. Two stood out–one was "Oil Pull" and the
                    other I have never mentioned in the belief that some day I might use it in another tractor
                    development. We protected the "Oil Pull" name quickly by registering it as a
                    trade-mark which we put on the tractor. We also had made a dimunutive of the trade-mark which we put
                    on a typewriter key so that it stood out prominently in a letter and was easily read. This
                    trade-mark was used in all our advertising at the time and emphasized that we were pioneers in power
                    plowing. The result was that the word "oil pull plowing" was picked up to
                    designate power plowing and before long our patent attorneys advised us that they were having
                    trouble in 
                        Washington
                     because officials there contended that oil pull plowing was a generic term for power
                    plowing and that we could no longer copyright it for ourselves. We had considerable difficulty and
                    several trips had to be made to 
                        Washington
                     to prove to the patent people that we had coined and projected the word "Oil
                    Pull Plowing."
            
               
                  22 Edwin Laurentine Drake, 1819-1880, struck oil on Oil Creek, near 
                            Titusville
                        , 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , on August 27, 1859. His son Lauren J. Drake, 1842-1918, in August, 1896, became
                        manager of all Standard of Indiana's domestic market in refined petroleum products.
                        Several years later he moved to 
                            New York
                         and in 1911 was elected a director of Standard Oil of 
                            New Jersey
                        . See Hidy and Hidy, Pioneering in Big Business, I, 5, 314,
                        321-22.
               
                  23 A large blank space in the original manuscript suggests that Rumely
                        intended to insert additional material at this point. Apparently this was never done.
            
            
            Not like Mr. [John D.] Rockefeller, we had no fear that the oil business would not last long enough
                    to keep our tractors supplied with fuel. Indeed, had Mr. Rockefeller's Standard Oil Company
                    been able to draw off and exhaust all the petroleum in the earth, Kerosene Annie could have become
                    Alcoholic Annie. One acre of potatoes could have yielded commercial alcohol fuel sufficient to plow
                    that acre for two centuries.
            
                    CHAPTER FOURTEEN
                
            
                    I FOUND INTERLAKEN SCHOOL
                
            Of all my varied occupations and endeavors none has been closer to my heart than Interlaken School.
                    In the ten years of its life we received and taught some 1200 boys, and after that experience I have
                    often thought that the world might be a better place if it was run for a time by schoolboys of
                    between 8 and 16. Then ideals are the cleanest. Then loyalties are the deepest. Then enthusiasms are
                    the strongest. And then impressions are the clearest.
            One of the great joys of my life has been to witness the development of young men from their studies
                    to achievement in life. Generally I was able to recognize among the boys the ten percent destined
                    for real leadership. I studied the students. I knew their backgrounds and in many cases their family
                    histories, and I bought books for many a student in order to stimulate his interest in [a] direction
                    in which I felt he was fitted to go. Many a former Interlaken boy told me in later life that these
                    books had headed him on the road to success.
            Most of our boys did well. One is the head of a great mercantile establishment in 
                        Chicago
                    . Another is in charge of a great railway operation. A third manages a huge industrial
                    organization. A fourth is one of 
                        Japan
                    's foremost architects. A fifth is one of the world's leading and most
                    interesting sculptors.24
            
            The school was a great stimulus to me. It needed $25,000 to $35,000 a year more
                    than expenses and I had to hustle to earn that amount of money to make up the difference. In all,
                    between my 26th 
                  
                     24 The head of a great mercantile establishment is probably Hughston
                            Maynard McBain, president and director of 
                                Marshall
                             Fields in 
                                Chicago
                             and at one time (1932-1934) general manager of the Merchandise Mart. Who's Who in 
                                    America
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1970), 1489. Isamu Noguchi, a world famous sculptor, was a former pupil of
                            Rumely and has exhibited at Cordier and Ekstrom, 
                                New York
                            ; Gimpel Fils, 
                                London
                            ; and Gimpel Hanover, Zurich. Dorothy B. Gilbert, ed., Who's Who in American Art (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 316. In Chapter 16 of the autobiography Rumely mentions Sui
                            Mutsurikaba, "one of the best architects in 
                                Japan
                            ," whose buildings include a large hotel at one of the Shinto shrines.
                            Rumely autobiography, Chapter 16, Rumely Papers. The other men to whom Rumely referred have
                            not been identified.
               
                     and my 36th year I put into the school more than a quarter of a
                    million dollars of my first earnings. Several times when the school was in need I turned to business
                    deals which made larger amounts than were required at that time for the school.
            From the time it started until the summer of 1918, I was never free from thought of the school. All
                    my financial and business plans, all my vacations and travel were regulated in its interest. The
                    school gave me breadth and contact, a motive and satisfaction in life. I have never cared for money
                    and its possession, but the school gave me something to spend my money for, something to make the
                    money worth the trouble of earning it, and this was a great spur to my business activities.
            It was more than a year after my return to LaPorte that I was able to see a beginning to my cherished
                    ambition. Because of my father's health and the condition of the Rumely Company, I had to
                    turn to and help out in the office and sales management. My father refused to help me start the
                    school and I had no money of my own. But out of my $83 a month pay from the M. Rumely
                    Company I managed to save some $400 by the spring of 1907. From where I worked in the
                    Rumely Company office I could look north across Clear Lake to a rise in the
                    land where stood a large brick building with a French mansard roof. It was a former sanitarium,
                    three stories high, 35 rooms with about 20 fireplaces and a large basement. It had been built
                    originally by "Doctor" Collins, one of LaPorte's colorful characters of
                    early days. He had been a hodcarrier and then developed an opium cure which he had sold far and wide
                    around the world. He said he had carried bricks for hundreds of other people's homes and
                    that this time people were going to carry bricks for his home. So he built the place with brick
                    walls fourteen inches thick. Today the building still stands surrounded by a newer facade comprising
                    the LaPorte General Hospital Fairview Hospital.
            
            But for my purposes the place was ideally suited for the school. The rooms were spacious and well
                    lighted. There was plenty of hot and cold water and with a basement story well-suited for our shop
                    work. There was a two story barn, a storeroom for vegetables, and an ice house on the shore of
                        Clear Lake. The estate was surrounded by trees, shrubs and vines and had a
                    half mile of water front on Clear Lake. A short distance away was
                        Stone Lake with its clear sandy beach, densely wooded bluffs, and crystal
                    waters, and connected by a channel with Stone Lake was Pine
                    Lake one of the most beautiful of Indiana's inland lakes.
            In this setting between lakes there was no question about a name for the
                    school–Interlaken.
            
            This place I rented for $1000 a year and since my salary was $83 a month it can
                    be seen that I was figuring my expenses quite closely. I moved out to the Collins place and lived
                    there during the late spring and summer of 1907. Meanwhile I looked up Dr. Frank O'Hara who
                    had been a student with me at 
                        Notre Dame
                     and induced him to come to LaPorte and join with me in beginning the school. He, too,
                    had a little capital. I wrote the catalogue in the evenings of the spring, after spending the day at
                    the factory office. Then I sent it off to the printer. His bill was $400. O'Hara
                    complained "you might at least have saved out enough postage to mail the catalogue
                    out." And then he put up the necessary money for stamps.
            I had little difficulty in writing out the catalogue because by that time my ideas had been well
                    formulated and almost daily talked out with anyone who would listen. I was certain that once the
                    catalogue stated the idea those ideas would attract people and I would be able in one way or another
                    to earn enough money to get the school going. We issued the catalogue in late May of 1907, inserted
                    an advertisement in the 
                        Chicago
                     Tribune, then began to get inquiries.
            In September 1907 when we opened with 13 students, three of them I took on scholarship, ten of them
                    paid the regular tuition of $600 per year. During the first year the number increased to
                    27. The second year we opened with about 40 boys. The third year with 65, and the fourth year our
                    number had increased to 120.
            Interlaken differed from other boarding schools in that work, purposeful work was an essential part
                    of the course of study. Each boy devoted several hours a day to work in the shop–wood
                    shop, copper shop of the school.
            (On the balance of this paragraph the record is scratched and will have to be dictated over.)25
            
            As superintendent of the school and assistant to me, I engaged Dr. William N. Hailmann,26 who had been superintendent of schools at 
                        Dayton
                     and also in charge of Indian schools for the 
                        United States
                     Government. One of the first teachers I employed was John Cory, my friend at 
                        Oxford
                     and 
                        Heidelberg
                     whose sterling character I had come to admire, and Margaret Cory, his sister, was for a
                    time my secretary and teacher of French and German. Later came Alexander Lattimore and Alexander
                    Smith who had been with me at Ruskin 
                  
                     25 There are several missing paragraphs in Chapters 14 and 15 where
                            the "Williamson" manuscript is not complete. Evidently the wire recording
                            made by Rumely was scratched so that a transcription could not be made.
                  
                     26 Professor William N. Hailmann was an educator of national
                            reputation. He served as superintendent of schools of 
                                La Porte
                             in the 1880s and as superintendent of Indian schools of the 
                                United States
                             in the 1890s. Pictorial and Biographical Record of
                                        
                           La Porte, Porter, Lake
                         and 
                                    Starke
                                 Counties, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1894), 103.
               
                     Hall at 
                        Oxford
                    .27 As art teacher we had John Ward Stimson, uncle of the late
                    Secretary of War [State] Henry L. Stimson.28 Later, Dr. Hailman was succeeded by
                    John Foster Carr a Baylor College 
                        Oxford
                     graduate.29 Usually the faculty numbered from 10 to 20 teachers
                    with a few assistants. I did not employ many Germans. One who came to us on recommendation of a 
                        New York
                     banker proved himself incapable of handling boys. A gardner and teacher of Botany whom
                    I imported from Baden, he too failed. Next before we got in the war I tried a man named Elert to
                    introduce drill and elements of military training at the school when the preparedness movement was
                    becoming strong. He, too, failed because of his inability to handle American boys. The other German
                    was one I secured through a 
                        New York
                     teachers agency. He was a good teacher and able to maintain discipline but he liked a
                    glass of beer occasionally and sometimes didn't stop with one.
            One of my problems was to get teachers willing to combine practical manual work of craftmanship with
                    schoolroom work. Many a teacher who was good in the classroom like a boy disliked manual work. So I
                    had written into the contract of every teacher that he had to participate in all practical work of
                    the school and I had all applicants read the catalogue so that they would have clearly in mind what
                    confronted them. But one of our early Latin teachers abhorred garden work. He couldn't get
                    over the notion that there was something wrong in manual work. And one day I happened to watch from
                    the window. He had a group of boys digging up sweet potatoes that we had planted. A little chap from 
                        Chicago
                     said "my aunt didn't send me down here to work in the garden. She
                    sent me down here to learn something." And the Latin teacher felt just as the boy did, as I
                    watched his feeble effort in digging along with work detail of boys.
            One of my finds a Hungarian coppersmith, Herman Deutsch, who had great skill in hammering metals into
                    beautiful bowls
            (the rest of this paragraph is mutilated as it is on the reverse side of the cracked record.)
            The enrollment of the school was thoroughly American. Boys 
                  
                     27 For a further description of John Cory and Alexander Lattimore see
                            McGarr, "Student Days Abroad," 202, 207-208, 210-12, 218-19.
                  
                     28 John Ward Stimson, 1850-1930, was an artist and lecturer at 
                                Princeton
                             University before joining Rumely's Interlaken faculty. Who Was Who in 
                                    America
                                , 1897-1942 (4 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1952), I, 1188. Henry L. Stimson served as President Herbert Hoover's
                            secretary of state from 1929-1933. Richard N. Current, Secretary Stimson: A
                                Study in Statecraft (
                                New Brunswick
                            , N. J., 1954), 43.
                  
                     29 John Foster Carr, 1869-1939, was an educator, author, and lecturer,
                            whose major writing interest was Italian and Jewish immigration to the 
                                United States
                            . Who Was Who, I, 196.
               
                     came from all parts of the 
                        United States
                     but many of them from wealthy or prosperous homes in and around 
                        Chicago
                    . Interlaken appealed particularly to fathers, successful men who had had farm
                    backgrounds and remembered what the farm had given them as young men. In this way two of our
                    staunchest friends were James A. Patton,30 who came from a farm in Sandwich,
                    111. and Henry Ford, who felt that his farm background had been valuable to him and this aspect of
                    the school interested him.
            The school, of course, gave me many contacts. One of the earliest was Luther H. Gulick, who was one
                    of the American pioneers in physical training and at that time was the founder and director of the
                    Child Hygiene Department of the Russell Sage Foundation.31 Earlier as director
                    of physical education of the YMCA he had made a study of human instincts which are the basis of
                    men's play activities. He outlined the experience of primitive men running after game or
                    being chased fleeing from game or chasing them, striking with clubs, throwing with stones, teaming
                    up in a group to overcome an animal. All this had been the work of man for thousands of years
                    through the stone age. And these primitive instincts had become the basis of play activities of our
                    time. He went on to outline football and baseball as descendants of these early instincts and that
                    knowing these facts it would be possible to lay down the rules of a new game and with that and
                    another athletic director he devised and wrote out the rules of basketball. I looked up Gulick in 
                        New York
                     and found that he had become overworked and was nervous and not sleeping well. The same
                    state that I found a few years earlier [in] Professor von Gaevernitz. I induced Gulick to pack his
                    bag and come west with me that afternoon. He spent six weeks at the school. Arrived there the school
                    assigned him at once to a job of pulling one end of a crosscut saw with a boy at the other. This
                    unusual task and his desire to make a good showing before the boys caused him to tire himself out
                    completely. As I expected, the next morning he told me 
                  
                     30 James A. Patten, 1852-1928, was widely known as a member of the 
                                Chicago
                             Board of Trade. He became its president in 1918 and served in that capacity
                            until his death. From 1901-1903 he was mayor of 
                        Evanston, Illinois
                     ,
                            was a generous benefactor of Northwestern University, and gave several millions of dollars
                            to other charities. In 1903 Patten and his brother George became members of the grain broker
                            firm Bartlett, Fraizer & Carrington, which later became Bartlett, Patten &
                            Company. Allen Johnson and Dumas Malone, eds., Dictionary of American
                            Biography (22 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1930), VII, 297-98. Hereafter cited as DAB.
                  
                  
                     31 Luther Halsey Gulick, 1865-1918, was interested in hygiene and
                            physical education and wrote numerous books on health and exercise. He was also an active
                            promoter of the YMCA, the Russell Sage Foundation, 1907-1913, and was president of the Camp
                            Fire Girls in 1913. Who Was Who, I, 494. Russell Sage, 1816-1906, was from 
                                Troy
                            , 
                                New York
                            , served as a 
                                United States
                             congressman from 1852-1856, and was a successful financier and railroad
                            builder. The Russell Sage Foundation was established to direct his many philanthropies which
                            included the education of more than forty Indian children. DAB, VIII,
                            292-93.
               
                     he had slept better than he had for a month. Thereafter I
                    planned it so he would be drawn into the work activities of the school and put in the position where
                    his pride would cause him to exert great muscular effort to hold up his end of the effort. The boys
                    took Gulick on trips and gave him a great deal of outdoor muscular work. At that time he was
                    planning the Campfire Girls and John Collier was writing the poetry that went into the ritual of
                    that group. He had made fair progress during his stay at Interlaken but needed $25,000 to
                    $30,000 to start him off. At that moment–and simply at that
                    moment–I had a little more money than Interlaken needed so I contributed $5000
                    to the start of the Campfire Girls and was in some way connected with the work in its formative
                    period. Gulick introduced much to the school's athletic standards. Another visitor who also
                    contributed to its work or manual standards was Harrington Emerson, the great efficiency engineer of 
                        Chicago
                    .32
            
            (unable to transcribe Record #III as record cracked.)
            One Sunday, when a group of boys returned from a weekend hike, Gerald Lambkin, nicknamed
                    "Happy" because he always woke up in the morning with a broad smile, came to me.
                    "Doctor," he said, "you told us that some day you wanted to move the
                    school to the country. I know the place. We camped out at a lake just beyond Rolling 
                        Prairie
                    , and it's a fine lake with a nice sandy beach for swimming. You go out and buy
                    all the farms around that lake and you'll have a fine place for the new Interlaken School.
            The next Sunday, I drove out eight miles to Rolling 
                        Prairie
                     where I found Silver Lake in the center of a section of land
                    exactly as Happy Lambkin had described. I thereupon engaged a real estate man to get an option on
                    the farms around the lake. He secured immediately option on all but one. Eventually Interlaken
                    acquired the hold-out property. Then it owned the entire shoreline and under the laws of Indiana had
                    complete control of Silver Lake. Including 180 acres of lake, we had some 700
                    acres of woods, water and farmland.
            A group of boys went out early in the spring and laid the foundation and erected a dining hall in
                    eight weeks. Plans for this building had been made in the drafting room of the old school on the
                    edge of Clear Lake as part of the work of the drawing class. Constructed of
                    cypress lumber was an extremely attractive building with a large stained glass window at one end
                    made in the school art department.
            
               
                  32 Harrington Emerson, 1853-1931, was a specialist in scientific
                        management and efficiency. He served in 1921 as a member of President Herbert Hoover's
                        Commission for the Elimination of Waste in Industry and authored several books on the principles
                        of efficiency in industry. Allen G. Debus, ed., World Who's Who in
                        Science (
                            Chicago
                        , 1968), 522-23.
            
            
            
               MAIN BUILDING AT INTERLAKEN
               
            
            
               CUTTING ICE AT INTERLAKEN WINTER, 1916-1917.
               Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               SCENES AT INTERLAKEN
               
               Courtesy Lilly Library. Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            Such enthusiasm developed among the boys for their new school that the majority of them remained with
                    us throughout their summer vacation and camped out at Rolling 
                        Prairie
                     where they started construction of the main building. What the Interlaken boys did in
                    building a new plant during that summer is, I believe, a unique chapter in the history of schools.
                    They lived in tents, got up at 5 in the morning, worked through the day and many times when a roof
                    or some definite project had to be completed a volunteer group labored through the whole night by
                    lantern light.
            For the main building we bought 50,000 linear feet of 30 and 40 foot logs. The building was u-shaped,
                    about 350 feet long and 250 feet wide and next to Old Faithful Inn in Yellowstone Park it was said
                    to be the largest log building in the world.33 At one end was a gymnasium large
                    enough for a basketball game and to accomodate 700 or 800 people. On the other end of the wing there
                    were about 30 rooms, classrooms and offices. These were on the ground floor and on the upper floor
                    were 30 student rooms. The whole structure was put up with 85% of
                    Interlaken boy labor. Some boys became such expert axmen that they could notch logs as skillfully as
                    pioneer woodsmen. They had a big crane that lifted the logs to place them and this was run by a full
                    grown man, and one or two carpenters, but the remainder of the work was done by some 35 boys. So
                    quickly did these boys develop skills they operated as efficiently as adults. Many 16 to 18 year old
                    boys moved with such agility and speed that except on difficult fitting jobs expert carpenters could
                    do no better. The younger boys or the less able ones were assigned to leaders who had skill in the
                    jobs that they performed. Generally five to six or eight boys under one leader. We found that this
                    system of leadership gave a smooth operation and much greater output. The leaders developed in skill and they returned year after year to the school, and some of them chose to
                        remain a year longer as guides in charge of work groups on the job.
            Meanwhile, the school enrollment shot up more than expected. By the end of June in the year which we
                    acquired the Rolling 
                        Prairie
                     site we saw that we'd have fifty boys more than we had provided space for,
                    whereupon we wired that we had room for 50 more boys to be in tents. Those who had their parents
                    consent and who applied first would be given the opportunity of living in tents. As the result we
                    had more applications for tent accomodations than for the dormitories.
            
               
                  33 In 1923 the Old Faithful Inn was described as "the most
                        extensive log structure yet devised by man …" Jack E. Haynes, Haynes New Guide and Motorist's Complete Road Log of Yellowstone National
                        Park (35th ed., Saint Paul, 1923), 68.
            
            
            When the students arrived the next fall we had a carload of cypress lumber and blueprint plans for
                    floors and walls running up to three feet to be covered by a tent about 20 feet long and 12 and 14
                    feet wide. The top of the tent had an extra flap to keep snow away from the warm inner canvas. Each
                    tent had a stove and a metal insulation where the stove pipe passed up through the canvas, to
                    prevent burning.
            For nearly three years about 60 boys preferred to sleep winter and summer in the tent camp at
                    Interlaken School. Sometimes the snow lay three feet deep outside. There was one central log
                    building in this camp containing showers. The boys hustled with bare feet in pajamas or in
                    nightgowns–for those were still the days of nightshirts–through snow in winter
                    each morning. Each tent, of course, had a wood floor and the boys gathered their own firewood from
                    the wind fallen timber across the lake when coal was not supplied.
            There were two boys to each tent. For the second time we ordered another carload of cypress lumber
                    and told all that wished to to substitute lumber for the tents that they might do so. So when the
                    boys returned after a summer vacation very quickly some of the more expert ones pitched in and built
                    for themselves cypress cabins. That encouraged others and soon, within two weeks, all the tents had
                    been transformed into cabins that lasted through the remainder of the school's existence
                    and today a generation later these cabins comprise a tourist camp. These
                        cabins were moved a few miles east of the school site, where they now comprise a tourist
                    camp.
            If there has been greater exhibit of school spirit, or greater manual accomplishment by school boys
                    most of whose families were prosperous and wealthy, I have yet to hear of it. Nor have I yet to hear
                    of where more fundamental democracy was practiced. It made no difference from where the boy came.
                    Some of the wealthiest ones had the hardest row to hoe. My greatest satisfaction is that such a
                    large proportion of them made good in after life.
            
                    CHAPTER 15
                
            "How Much Money Do You Want?"
            
                    Patten 250,000
                    34
                
            The first year we put out fifty, the second year 1,000 Oil-Pulls. I knew that our first machines
                    would have many small defects that would give trouble in the field and could be found and remedied
                    only after practical experience. We succeeded in satisfying the farmers 
                  
                     34 For an explanation of the italicized words, which were handwritten
                            additions to the original manuscript, see below, p. 39-40.
               
                     who had bought the initial tractors by giving them liberal
                    rebates on new machines. Thus the net cost of our experimentation to the company was reduced to
                    probably $40,000 or $50,000 and we gained a year's advance over our
                    competitors and had the ability immediately to put our Oil-Pull plant to maximum production. This
                    initiative and courage in driving ahead was a big factor in giving the Rumely Company the lead that
                    it held uninterruptedly over all other farm tractor companies.
            Plant and business expanded so rapidly that we were hard put for additional skilled labor. The
                    booming automobile industry was attracting the best mechanics and our advertisements for skilled
                    workers brought no response. Then I ran this ad in a 
                        Chicago
                     paper: "LaPorte–a good town to rear a family. Excellent schools,
                    churches, pleasant surroundings. A good place to own a home." To the astonishment of our
                    supervisors and hiring foremen this type of advertisement brought scores of replies. We then put
                    through home building developments in North LaPorte and around the plant.
            I also arranged with the inter-urban company to run a special car from 
                        Michigan City
                     early in the morning and after closing time in the evening at a special low rate. We
                    advertised this on Saturday and on Monday morning about forty men from 
                        Michigan City
                     Car Works came over to LaPorte to work. Our wage rate was considerably higher than the 
                        Michigan City
                     wage rate which had been cut by John L. Barker,35 the car works
                    owner who imported numbers of immigrants from the various European countries. Barker was an old
                    friend of Grandfather's.
            That Monday afternoon my uncle William Rumely answered his telephone, listened a moment, then winced
                    in pain. Putting his hand over the receiver he said to me, "You started this. You finish
                    it. John Barker is on the phone." So I got on the wire and this is what I heard:
                    "You little brat! The last time I saw you you were trailing along on your
                    Grandfather's apron strings; now you're raiding on my labor market …
                    Goddam you!" "Mr. Barker," I said "if you feel that strongly,
                    I'll drive over and see you."
            When I reached the car works, the factory manager met me. "Doctor," he said
                    "you're going to have a session with the boss, but don't lose your
                    temper; bear in mind that he's been performing on us all day long for letting you raid our
                    labor."
            Barker was a small man. He sat at a huge table which he hit with a terrific blow of his fist and then
                    went to work on me. "Who 
                  
                     35 In 1871 the Haskall and Barker Car Company, manufacturer of freight
                            cars, was incorporated in 
                                Michigan City
                            , Indiana. Shortly thereafter John Henry Barker became general manager of the
                            company, and after 1884 he was the sole owner of the firm. George Irving Reed, ed., Encyclopedia of Biography of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1899), II, 187-89.
               
                     brought these workers to 
                        Michigan City
                    ? I did. Who imported them? I did. Who got around the law to place them here? I did. Who
                    made this labor market? I did–and now you come and take this labor away from
                    me."
            After about twenty minutes of the same, he stopped and asked, "What do you need all the
                    workers for?" We're selling more tractors than we can make," I said,
                    "and we haven't men enough in LaPorte to make them."
            He said: "Where did you get all the money to put up your big building?"
            I said: "I haven't all that I need. I want to build a foundry costing two hundred
                    twenty-five thousand dollars, and I haven't got the money."
            I had heard that John Barker was in trouble with the state tax people for not reporting Indiana
                    assets enough to correspond with the wealth he was supposed to have. "We could use
                    $200,000," I said.
            "What do you give for the $200,000?" he asked.
            I said "6% preferred stock."
            He said: "I never in my life paid par for 6% preferred stock in a new
                    thing."
            "I'll sell it to you at 92," I said.
            As suddenly as he had gone into the tirade when I walked in, he reached for his checkbook and said:
                    "That's $184,000." "Yes, for 2000 shares."
            Barker needed immediate delivery of the certificates because he wanted to make a statement that he
                    owned the $200,000 investment in Indiana stock–more than he had done so up to
                    that moment. When I got back to LaPorte, I asked my uncle to come down to the office and make out
                    certificates for 2000 shares. And he said "That's foolish."
                    "John Barker is in a mood where you can't sell him anything," and I
                    couldn't convince him until he saw the check. After that, Barker remained an interested
                    friend.
            We started building our foundry. At the same time we knew we'd have difficulty getting
                    workers for it. With the high demand for less arduous labor, Americans were reluctant to go into
                    foundry work. We needed Polish immigrants. The Federal law prohibiting employers from importing
                    foreign labor, the law which Barker had gotten around, would not prohibit a parish priest from
                    trying to increase his congregation by having his church members write to relatives in the old
                    country and urging them to come to LaPorte. A. J. Rumely [Edward's uncle] got Grandmother
                    to give $1000 towards building a Polish church, then he called on the bishop and told him
                    that this might be a starting point, that we would pledge to give jobs to Polish workers, whereupon
                    the bishop opened a parish in East  LaPorte where a Policy
               sh colony developed within a couple of years.
                    When the Poles got jobs and bought homes, they too wrote their friends in 
                        Poland
                     and urged them to join them.
            While our tractor development was in progress, I would work at the Rumely Company office then go out
                    to the school in late afternoon for a swim in Stone Lake with the boys. One
                    afternoon I arrived and saw a stranger mingling with the boys assembling for the swim hour. A boy
                    from Evanston, William Warren, whose father was an architect, said to me"You know who that
                    man is?"
            "No," I said. "He's Mayor of our town and a member of the school
                    board." I went over greeted the stranger and asked, "Anything I can do?"
                    "Yes," he said, "my wife heard that this school might be a good place for
                    my son who's giving me a lot of trouble. He keeps running away from school and since
                    I'm head of the school board, it doesn't look good to get a note ‘Your
                    son Tom has been truant two days, or three days.’"
            "What does Tom do when he quits school?" I asked.
            "He just stays in my barn and garage with my chauffeurs all day long." 
            "How many chauffeurs have you?" 
            "Three; one for my wife, one for my daughter, and one for me." 
            I had heard about the Evanston High School of those days. Its teachers could be hired away easily
                    because their salaries were so low. So, I asked "What do you pay your chauffeurs?"
            "The fellow who drives me gets $2400 and his house, and milk and garden stuff and
                    chickens from the farm." 
            "Well," I said "that's about $3400." The man
                    who drove his wife got a little less and the one who drove his daughter was unmarried and got
                    $2200 or $2300. "That's a total of about $7000 a
                    year," I said "and the boy has the time of these three men to himself. What do you
                    pay your high school teachers?"
            "From $1400 to $1600." 
            "So," I said, "Tom has about one-thirtieth of a teacher, or about
                    $50 worth of time against what costs you $7000 or $8000."
            "I never thought of it that way," said the Evanston man, and forty years later,
                    neither have many others.
            Our visitor spent the night at the school and the next morning said he would send his boy to us.
                    "If Tom needs anything, buy it and put it on my bill. Don't write me about [it]
                    and ask permission. Buy him a suit if he needs it. The other day Cyrus McCormick came in and asked
                    me to give some money for the YMCA. ‘Yes,’ I said ‘I'll
                    give you $10,000.’ Then McCormick sat down and talked to me for an hour while
                    the wheat market (pit?) was open. Wheat was moving and I could have made $30,000 or
                    $40,000 except for that interruption  So
                    don't trouble me; if Tom needs anything, use your judgment and get it."
            That was my introduction to James A. Patten.
            Instead of discouraging young Tom Patten's strong mechanical inclinations that were
                    unsatisfied by book learning, I allowed him to go out and work with Secor's experimental
                    tractor. Tom had a wonderful time because the crew of Italians who pulled up the stumps and cleared
                    the way for the tractor cooked a common meal. Out of one huge kettle everyone dished out a bowl of
                    soup. Tom had never seen anything like that.
            Later that fall while we were test plowing in fields near the school, Mr. and Mrs. Patten paid us a
                    week-end visit. When they arrived Tom was out handling the plows behind the tractor. Mr. Patten went
                    out to see him and was so fascinated by seeing eight furrows turned behind the tractor that he
                    stayed with his son on the plow platforms all day. It was the first time he had seen power plowing.
                    "What's that tractor going to do?" he asked.
            "It's going to take 10c' or more out of the cost of raising a bushel of
                    wheat." I said.
            "Can you prove that?" he demanded.
            "Yes," I said.
            "Next time you're in 
                        Chicago
                    , bring your figures and come and see me." 
            Some weeks later, I called on Patten at the Grain Exchange Bartlett Frazer offer.36
                He examined my statistics and cost figures with the minuteness of a
                    watchmaker and put me through a stiff questioning. Finally he asked, "Have you got all the
                    money you need for your development?"
            "No," I said, "I'm short of money now."
            "How much is the stock?" he asked.
            I said "$250 a share."
            "I'll be damned!" Patten exploded. "I never paid more than
                    $100 a share for any speculative thing."
            Then I exploded. The Rumely Company wasn't a speculative thing but an old established
                    concern. Until then its stock had never been increased and every share had $150 farm
                    notes besides a hundred dollars in assets.
            Patten pushed a button and called in his secretary and said "Bring me my check
                    book." He started filling out a check, then raised his pen and asked
                    "What's the name of the company?"
            "M. Rumely Company." 
            Patten signed the check and handed it to me. I looked at it and 
                  
                     36 See above, note 30.
               
                     said "You made a mistake. A hundred shares are
                    $25,000, and you've written down here $250,000."
            "I want a thousand shares," he said.
            (INSERT HERE TO COME ON WARREN ∗∗∗∗∗∗)"
            Later I interested John D. Larkin owner of the Larkin Soap Company of Buffalo38
                    who took a half million dollars interest in the company. Subsequently as the business grew we were
                    obliged to extend larger amounts of credit to the farmers and Messrs. Patten, Warren and Larkin all
                    directly and through banks associated with them purchased farmers notes in large quantities. These
                    men made their investments in the company through negotiations with me. I'd come to know
                    each of them as a personal friend. Patten and Larkin stuck by me through the entire period of
                    success and profit and didn't desert me when things went the other way. The remainder of
                    their lives they became my three staunchest business friends.
            Mr. Patten and 
                        Warren
                     took a lively interest in the work at 
                        La Porte
                     and made frequent visits. Mr. Larkin, however, the largest investor, never was there
                    during the entire period of his association with the Rumely Company. His whole contact consisted of
                    an occasional letter and visits from me to him. In spite of repeated invitations he didn't
                    come even in 1912, and the first part of 1913 when his investment in stocks and notes had grown to a
                    million and a half dollars, and when the banks with which he was associated held some $2
                    million of notes. All in all I secured for the Rumely Company some $38 million of working
                    capital. Patten had invested up to $700,000 or $800,000 in the Rumely Company;
                    Larkin–$600,000 in stock and a million in notes, 2 or 3 million some in 
                        Buffalo
                     banks with which he was associated and 
                        Warren
                     put up a quarter of a million in stock and much more in notes.
            We pushed our tractor output into such large volume that we were making deliveries by the train-load.
                    For a couple of miles along the 
                        New York
                     Central tracks were parts (?) of Rumely Ideal Threshers and Rumely Oil-Pull tractors
                    awaiting shipment. Salesmen, dealers, agents, production people–the eyes of all of us
                    were 
                  
                     37 Rumely is probably referring to Edward K. Warren, 1847-1919, a
                            manufacturer who lived in Three Oaks, 
                                Michigan
                            , and who was a large investor in the Rumely firm. 
                                Warren
                             was president of 
                                Warren
                             Featherbone Company and of E. K. Warren and Company, bankers. He also owned
                            numerous ranches and was a breeder of cattle in 
                        Texas, New Mexico
                     , and 
                                Mexico
                            . Who Was Who, I, 1302.
                  
                     38 John D. Larkin, Jr., 1878-1945, was an industrialist associated
                            with the Larkin Company, Inc., which had been founded by his father. The company
                            manufactured soap and other household articles and operated chain food stores, a retail
                            department store, and a large mail order department. During World War I the Larkin Company
                            supplied 60 per cent of its products to the 
                                United States
                             government. 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, April 4, 1945, p. 21.
               
                     fixed on the stars. But a banana peel brought us down to earth
                    and jolted home the eternal wisdom of an Alexander Pope couplet;
                        "Be not the first by whom the new are tried, "Nor yet the last to lay the
                            old aside."39
                  
                    
            
            The banana peel was bankers. Like other manufacturers in the same line, The Rumely Company sold most
                    of its threshing machines in spring and summer, and the loans made by banks financing that
                    season's business were paid in full in the fall. But whereas threshers performed in summer
                    harvest, the chief demand for Rumely Oil-Pull Tractors was for spring plowing. Financing such an
                    operation meant a different time for maturing loans. The banks could not see the difference, an
                    astigmatism which competing implement companies saw no reason to correct. Instead of carrying
                    tractor loans until spring, the banks, particularly the First National Bank of 
                        Chicago
                     which had a loan of two hundred and forty thousand dollars, insisted that they be paid,
                    like thresher loans in November and December.
            I took the train for 
                        New York
                     where I saw Mr. Simonson40 of the National City Bank. "If
                    banks who know you nearby won't carry you," he said,
                    "how do you expect we, who don't know you will do it?" He turned me down
                    not only cold but deep freeze. So I went around the corner to 26 
                        Broadway
                     and saw Mr. Drake, my Standard Oil standby.
            "I'm afraid we've got to cut in half our estimated production of kerosene
                    burning engines," I said.
            "What's the trouble?" he asked. "Can't you sell
                    them?"
            "We could sell twice as many, but the banks won't finance us." 
            Drake told me to stand by while he talked with John D. Archbold, Standard Oil's
                        treasurer.41 When he returned, he said: "Mr. Archibold wished you
                    to go to the National City Bank with him."
            I said "I've just been there, and Mr. Simonsen a vice president, turned me
                    down."
            "Never mind that," Mr. Drake said: "If Mr. Archbold wants to take you to
                    the National City Bank it would be a good idea to go with him. Mr. Archbold wishes you to be in the
                    downstairs lobby of this 
                  
                     39 Be not the first by whom the New are try'd, Nor yet the last to lay the Old aside. Alexander Pope, An Essay on Criticism, E. Audra and
                            Aubrey Williams, eds., Pastoral Poetry and An Essay on Criticism (The
                                Twickenham Edition of the Poems of Alexander Pope, Vol. I; 
                                London
                            , 1961), 276.
                  
                     40 William A. Simonson, 1865-1937, was well respected in Wall Street
                            circles. He served as senior vice president and director of National City Bank of 
                                New York
                             and was a director on the boards of New Amsterdam Gas Company, Lincoln Safe
                            Deposit Company, and the International Banking Corporation. Who Was Who,
                            I, 1128.
                  
                     41 John Dustin Archbold, 1848-1916, was an executive with Standard Oil
                            Company from 1875-1916. He served as a director and vice president, finally becoming
                            president in 1911, of Standard Oil of 
                                New Jersey
                            . Who Was Who, I, 29-30.
               
                     building sharply at 12:15, because he has a luncheon engagement
                    at the Downtown Club at 12:30, and he wants to have a brief visit on the way over. He's
                    very punctual, so please be here promptly at 12:15."
            I arrived in the lobby of the office about 12:07. Mr. Drake chatted with me and in a few minutes down
                    came Mr. Archbold, with a black stovepipe hat and Prince Albert. Mr. Drake said: "This is
                    my friend, Dr. Rumely from LaPorte, about whom I've spoken to you."
            We started off; I said nothing–wishing to hear what was on Mr. Archbold's mind.
                    We went up Broad Street to Wall Street, with not a word between us. As we turned to approach the
                    National City Bank, Mr. Archbold spoke. "Who was it you saw at the bank?" he
                    asked. "Mr. Simonsen," I said.
            "I know him very well," Archbold said. "When we get into the bank I wish
                    you wouldn't say a word until I'm gone except to acknowledge the
                    introduction."
            We walked up to the desk of Mr. Simonson. Mr. Archbold said: "Mr. Simonson, I want to
                    introduce to you Mr. Edward Rumely, who is making a tractor in which we are very much interested. It
                    burns kerosene, and we have the kerosene to sell. We have followed the machine and we know that it
                    works, and I just want you two gentlemen to know each other." Mr. Archbold then bowed and
                    went out. Simonson turned to me and said: "How much money do you need to carry you through
                    the winter?"
            I told him $250,000. He pushed across the table signature cards and a note for
                    $250,000 maturing the next April or May. I told him we did not need the money
                    immediately; that our notes in 
                        Chicago
                     still had sixty days to run. He said: "You might just as well pay them off at
                    once, drawing a check on us to pay them, and then the 
                        Chicago
                     banks will probably make inquiries as to why we loaned you the money when they refused
                    to carry."
            Just this happened. Within six weeks I was again invited to the First National Bank of 
                        Chicago
                     and told that if we wished further money I needn't go to 
                        New York
                     for it; just call on the First National.
            About 1910 the then Republican administration with George W. Wickersham as Attorney General42 was engaged in trust busting somewhat like the Democratic
                    administration's suit against the Du-Ponts. In hopes of securing farmers votes, it moved
                    against the International Harvester Company which was a consolidation of two larger reaper concerns,
                    the McCormick and Deering, and several others.
            
               
                  42 George Woodward Wickersham was attorney general of the 
                            United States
                         from 1909-1913 under President William Howard Taft. Ibid.,
                    1342.
            
            
            Assistant Attorney General [Edwin Prescott] Grosvenor who conducted the suit to break up the
                    Harvester Company subpoenaed me as a witness–assuming that Rumely Company as a competitor
                    in the implement business would be hostile to Harvester–and requested me to meet him at
                    breakfast on the day of my testimony.41 He began by telling me, "The
                    trouble with your company is that the Harvester Company comes into a town gets the first best dealer
                    for the McCormick line, the next best for the Deering line and the third and fourth best for other
                    Harvester lines and when you go there you can get only the fifth rate dealer for your
                    business."
            That was news to me so I listened. He then asked "What is the difference between the reaper
                    which the Harvester Company sells and the thresher which you people make?"
            I explained as elementally as I could the difference between reaping and threshing and that a reaper
                    reaps and a thresher threshes. Mr. Grosvenor seemed grateful. "You know," he said
                    "it's pretty difficult to keep track. One month we have bathtub people in court,
                    the next tobacco, and now implements to deal with." Then he added: "One problem
                    that concerns me is if I win the suit shall I break the Harvester Company into two or three or more
                    separate companies."
            As I listened I was amazed that a man with so little insight into the fundamentals of the implement
                    business could be making decisions to dismember and move about the life's work of men who
                    had made the greatest contribution to agriculture–shifting labor from human to animal and
                    mechanical power–that had been made since biblical days.
            I listened to get his viewpoint and his presentation seemed to be intended to guide me in my adverse
                    testimony. When I got on the stand he again said "The great difficulty with local agents,
                    Mr. Rumely, is that you find it difficult after the Harvester Company has taken the best to find
                    good local agents."
            I replied "No, that is not our difficulty. We have threshers that can be sold only at
                    harvest time from June to September and then our local branch house salesmen spent four to eight
                    weeks collecting and for the remaining six or seven months of the year we have nothing for them to
                    sell. We can't release them and rehire them and therefore our burden of sales expense is
                    very high.
            "The Harvester Company has a variety of implements that can 
                  
                     43 Edwin Prescott Grosvenor served as special counsel for the 
                                United States
                             attorney general's office in numerous cases under Presidents Theodore
                            Roosevelt and Taft. The DuPont case, 1910-1912, was known as the window glass trust case,
                            and Grosvenor was instrumental in bringing suits against DuPont. He also became well known
                            for his handling of the government suit against International Harvester Company in
                            1911-1913. Ibid., 491.
               
                     be sold almost every month in the year. They therefore can keep
                    their sales force busy, have lower overhead and have an advantage because of the wide variety of
                    products."
            A few other questions I answered in accordance with the facts and not in accordance with the assumed
                    antagonism to the Harvester Company. He then dropped me as a witness suggesting that I be excused.
                    E. A. Bancroft, chief counsel for Harvester, took over and said "We had better adjourn for
                    luncheon because I expect to hold this government witness several hours." He did and got
                    from me and into the record factual details confronting efficient agricultural implement operation.
                    I had never met him before, but I was told that this testimony of mine had pivotal importance. The
                    Harvester Company was not dismembered, and the ideas I had unfolded led me to attempt further
                    consolidation of the implement business.
         
         
         
            Richard Lieber and Indiana's Forest Heritage
            
                    Edited by David M. Silver
                    ∗
                
            Too few Hoosiers in this time of unparalleled emphasis upon preservation of a suitable environment in
                    which to live are adequately acquainted with the distinguished career of Richard Lieber, architect
                    of the state park system of Indiana. Lieber was born in 
                        Germany
                     in 1869 and emigrated to the Hoosier State in 1891. He later became a most energetic
                    advocate of conservation and preservation of Indiana's beautiful forest and wild life
                    resources and served as the first director of the Indiana Department of Conservation from 1919 to
                        1933.1 He brought an enthusiasm and dedication to his task which influenced
                    his colleagues and associates and ultimately gained him national recognition, including assignments
                    in the crusade to preserve America's national resources as well as those of Indiana.2
            
            Following a 
                        White
                     House Conference on conservation called by Theodore Roosevelt in 1908, Lieber devoted
                    himself most energetically to the preservation of Indiana's natural resources and beauty.
                    The idea of establishing a system of state parks probably had its origin not long after
                    Lieber's first visit to Brown County on September 24, 1910, when the Liebers were guests at
                    the cabin of Fred Hetherington. Lieber may already have had in mind, too, that the establishment of
                    a state park system might be a suitable project for the celebration of Indiana's centennial
                    in 1916. He remarked: "This whole county [Brown] ought to be bought up by the state and
                    then made into a State Park, so that all of the people of Indiana could enjoy this beauty
                        spot."3
            
            Lieber's activities in behalf of conservation continued unabated, and in October, 1912, he
                    served as chairman of the local board of governors for the Fourth National Conservation Congress
                    held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Among prominent national leaders who attended the convention were Secretary of War
                    Henry L. Stimson, presidential candidate Woodrow Wilson, former Vice President Charles W. Fair-
                        
                  
                     ∗ David M. Silver is dean of the College of Liberal Arts
                            and Sciences and professor of history, Butler University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 26, 1952, cited in John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony,
                                Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, 287.
                  
                     2 A report made by Lieber in 1934 indicates his wide interest in the
                            proper use of America's natural resources. Richard Lieber, America's Natural Resources (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 3-8.
                  
                     3 Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber by His Wife, Emma (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1947), 62-64, 69. Other sources do not corroborate Mrs. Lieber's
                            statement that her husband was a delegate to the 
                                White
                             House Conference in 1908. Curiously enough the state park in Brown County was
                            one of the last to be established during the period when Lieber served as director of the
                            Indiana Department of Conservation. Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II,
                            287.
               
                     banks, and Dr. Henry Wallace, father of the future Vice
                    President Henry A. Wallace.4
            
            As the result of discussions with Governor Samuel M. Ralston concerning a suitable celebration of the
                    state's centennial, Lieber was invited in 1916 to serve as chairman of the Committee on the
                    Indiana State Centennial Memorial of the Indiana Historical Commission. As Emma Lieber describes the
                    committee: "It was organized especially for the purpose of establishing the foundation of a
                    ‘System of State Parks’ as a permanent feature of the Hoosier Centennial
                    Celebration. Each county was to be organized and committees were to be appointed from the Indiana
                    Federation of Clubs, the Daughters of the American Revolution, the Hoosier State Motor Club, and
                    other civic organizations, and last but not least the press was asked for its
                        cooperation."5 It was hoped that three tracts of land could be
                    acquired for state parks during the centennial year. Since contributions from private citizens were
                    to be solicited, Governor Ralston set aside the week of April 24, 1916, for collecting "
                    subscriptions to the fund to be used in acquiring scenic tracts and historic spots."6 Success was almost immediate. Within a very short time the state acquired
                    McCormick's Creek Canyon in 
                        Owen County
                     and then Bloomingdale Glen or 
                        Turkey
                     Run in 
                        Parke County
                     as the foundation of the new state park system.7
            
            On November 13, 1932, friends from throughout the 
                        United States
                     assembled in 
                        Turkey
                     Run State Park to honor Lieber, creator of the Indiana state park system.8 The guest speaker, journalist and historian Claude G. Bowers, said that Lieber
                    "through his work for our own and future generations has raised monuments to his public
                    service that will abide as long as the forests spread their branches to the sky, or the stone
                    battlements of the cliffs abide, or the restless sands of the dunes shift on the shores of 
                        Michigan
                    , for the history of 
                  
                     4 Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber, 77.
                  
                     5. Ibid., 81.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 81-82.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 88. In 1915 as the result of a conversation with Richard Smith,
                            editor of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Lieber had learned that a magnificent tract of forest known as 
                                Turkey
                             Run or Bloomingdale Glen was to be sold for timber. The information had come
                            from Juliet V. Strauss, a newspaperwoman who lived close by the glen. Lieber was immediately
                            interested in saving this virgin forest. Ibid., 80-81.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 129-30. By 1932 the state park system of Indiana had expanded into
                            a vast network of parks including: McCormick's Creek in 
                                Owen County
                            , 
                                Turkey
                             Run in 
                                Parke County
                            , Clifty Falls in 
                                Jefferson County
                            , Muscatatuck in 
                                Jennings County
                            , the Dunes in 
                                Porter County
                            , Pokagon in 
                                Steuben County
                            , 
                                Spring
                             Mill in 
                                Lawrence County
                            , 
                                Brown County
                            , Shakamak, which includes parts of Clay, Sullivan, and Greene counties, Mounds
                            in 
                                Madison County
                            , Bass Lake Beach in 
                                Starke County
                            , and Lincoln in 
                                Spencer County
                            . Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 287. For a more complete
                            study of Lieber and the development of Indiana's state park system see Robert A.
                            Frederick, "Colonel Richard Lieber, Conservationist and Park Builder: The Indiana
                            Years" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University,
                        1960).
               
                    
                    
                  RICHARD LIEBER c. 1919
                  Courtesy Wayne R. Guthrie, 
                                Indianapolis
                             News.
               
                     conservation has written in indelible letters the name Richard
                    Lieber, whose bust we leave beneath the fine old trees of 
                        Turkey
                     Run."9
            
            In 1940 Lieber himself wrote in an account for author Louis Adamic: 
                        In 1915 began my life's work, creating state parks, and subsequently I became
                            director of the newly established Department of Conservation. For fourteen years, the
                            happiest of my life, I worked at that task. Today, like an old pensioned fire-department
                            horse, I am still at it (as consultant to the National Park Service and as a member of its
                            Advisory Board), grateful that the government lets me. I have not gathered any riches that
                            ‘thieves dig after or the rust eats’ nor did I ever care to. No one of
                            the millions who enjoy our state parks or have benefited from better practices in
                            conservation owes me anything, not even thanks. On the contrary, I am in their debt that
                            they have permitted me, a chance immigrant, to do what he wanted to do. Only in these 
                                United States
                             could a thing like that have happened.10
                  
                    
                
            Ray H, Brock of Monee, 
                        Illinois
                    , has recently generously donated to the Butler University Library a number of papers
                    and documents relative to Indiana history. Among them is the following report which Lieber made as
                    chairman of the Indiana State Centennial Memorial Committee. Not only does it describe the way in
                    which the state of Indiana acquired 
                        Turkey
                     Run to be developed into a state park, but it also demonstrates the dedication this
                    remarkable man had for nature's beauty and his untiring zeal in endeavoring to preserve it
                    for posterity. In a time when preservation of a suitable natural environment has become one of the
                    greatest challenges of modern life, it is appropriate to recall the efforts of the tireless Lieber
                    and to redouble present efforts as his accomplishment serves as an inspiration. Generations of
                    Hoosiers and Americans yet unborn owe Lieber a never ending debt of gratitude.
            
               
                  9 Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber, 130.
               
                  10 Quoted in ibid., 14.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Ind.,
                           
                                    November 25th, 1916.1
                           
                                
                        Indiana Historical Commission,2 City.
                        Ladies and Gentlemen:
                        I herewith beg to submit my report as Chairman of the Committee on Indiana State
                                    Centennial Memorial.3
                        
                        The first meeting of the Committee was held March 18th, 1916, since which time our
                                    activity has never lagged. We were spurred on to immediate action by the fact that
                                    sixty days later one of the garden spots of Indiana, namely, 
                                        Turkey
                                     Run was to be sold at public auction. 
                                        Turkey
                                     Run is a paradise of rocky gorges, glens, bathing beaches and
                                    waterfalls, a retreat for song birds and a garden of wild flowers. It has hundreds
                                    of magnificent black walnut, oak, poplar, and other stately trees, all growing in a
                                    primeval forest which the Lusk family carefully preserved from the
                                    lumberman's axe.4
                        
                        We immediately began an extensive campaign for funds and in 
                              
                                 1 The report which follows is an exact transcription
                                            of a photographic copy of the typewritten original. A [sic] has been used to indicate any irregularities. In three instances
                                            handwritten corrections, presumably made by Richard Lieber, were added to
                                            the original typed copy. These corrections have been incorporated in this
                                            reproduction. Minor changes in spacing have been made. This report, which is
                                            in the manuscripts division of the Butler University Library, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana, is apparently a revised version from which the final
                                            report was copied and submitted by Lieber to the Indiana Historical
                                            Commission. The final report was published in Indiana Historical Commission,
                                                Report of the Indiana Historical Commission from Its
                                                Organization, April 2). 1910, to December 1,
                                            1915, Bulletin 7 (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1916), 28-31; and also in Harlow Lindley, ed., Indiana Centennial, 1916: A Record of the Celebration of the One
                                                Hundredth Anniversary of Indiana's Admission to Statehood
                                                {Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. V; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1919), 50-55.
                              
                                 2 The members of the Indiana Historical Commission in
                                            1916 were: Governor Samuel M. Ralston, president; Dr. Frank B. Wynn, a
                                            prominent physician and 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             civic leader, vice president; Harlow Lindley, a professor at
                                            Earlham College, secretary; Professor James A. Woodburn, head of the
                                            Department of History at Indiana University; Charles W. Moores, a leading
                                            member of the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             bar; Samuel M. Foster, a business, political, and civic leader
                                            of 
                                                Fort Wayne
                                            ; Charity Dye, widely known in educational activities in 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            ; John Cava-naugh, president of the University of 
                                                Notre Dame
                                            ; and Lew M. O'Bannon, editor of the Corydon Democrat. Dr. Wynn, as vice president, actively headed the
                                            commission in place of the governor. Lindley, Indiana
                                                Centennial, 23.
                              
                                 3 The members of the Indiana Historical Commission
                                            also served as the State Centennial Commission, the responsibility of which
                                            was to plan a suitable centennial celebration for the state in 1916. Lieber
                                            was the chairman of a special committee set up by Governor Ralston and the
                                            Indiana Historical Commission to be known as the Committee on the Indiana
                                            State Centennial Memorial. It was also known as the "Park
                                            Committee" as its purpose was to begin a state park system for
                                            Indiana as a phase of the centennial celebration. Governor Ralston appointed
                                            the committee in March, 1916. Its members were Richard Lieber, chairman; Dr.
                                            Frank B. Wynn, Sol S. Kiser, who was an 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             banker, and Leo M. Rappaport, an attorney. In addition to the
                                            effort to create state parks the State Centennial Commission was to arrange
                                            exhibits, pageants, and other suitable celebrations to illustrate the
                                            industrial, agricultural, educational, and social life of the state. Ibid., 24, 48.
                              
                                 4 In 1826 Captain Salmon Lusk brought his bride to the
                                            area which became known as 
                                                Turkey
                                             Run. The Lusks were its original white settlers and
                                        owners.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              VIEWS OF TURKEY RUN,
                                            C. 1919.
                              Reproduced from Harlow Lindley. ed., The Indiana Centennial, 1916… (Indiana Historical collections Vol. V: 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            .
                           
                                    
                                    
                              MC CORMICK'S CREEK CANYON
                              
                              Reproduced from Harlow Lindley, ed., TAe Indiana Centennial,
                                                1916 … (Indiana Historical
                                            Collections, Vol. V; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1919), 52,
                           
                                     this were materially assisted by the press of
                                    the State. We sought the opinions of leading Americans concerning our enterprise and
                                    received most encouraging replies from such men as President [Woodrow] Wilson,
                                    Governor [Samuel W.] McCall of 
                                        Massachusetts
                                    , Theodore Roosevelt, Vice-President [Thomas R.] 
                                        Marshall
                                    , Senators [John W.] Kern and [Thomas] Taggart, Stewart Edward White,
                                    Ellery Sedgwick, Editor of the Atlantic Monthly [sic], Lyman
                                    Abbot[t] and others.5
                        
                        The actual work of gathering funds commenced in April. A joint Committee of the 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     Board of Trade and Chamber of Commerce was appointed and this Committee
                                    held daily meetings during the period of active solicitation. By proclamation of
                                    Governor [Samuel M.] Ralston the week beginning April 24th was designated for the
                                    purpose of making contributions to the State Park Fund. This resulted in the
                                    organization of some volunteer committees in the state at large. I am pained to
                                    acknowledge, however, that the citizens of the state generally did not respond in a
                                    manner which can possibly be compared to the liberality of the citizens of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . Two thirds of all the money subscribed came from 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . I believe, however, that this is due to the fact that the Committee
                                    was in closer contact with 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     than other communities in the State and that with a better knowledge of
                                    the facts and circumstances in connection with the Park movement, adequate funds can
                                    still be raised throughout the State.
                        Upon the day of the sale of 
                                        Turkey
                                     Run, the Committee became a bidder and continued to bid until it came
                                    to the conclusion that it was useless to compete with a commercial bidder. As a
                                    result the property was sold to the Hoosier Veneer Co., of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     for $30,200. The Committee, however, did not allow this
                                    disappointment to curb its activity and then and there determined to acquire 
                                        Turkey
                                     Run notwithstanding its apparent failure. Negotiations with the Hoosier
                                    Veneer Co. continued all summer and fall and finally on the 11th day of November,
                                    the property was purchased for the sum of $40,200. Figuring taxes and
                                    interest charges the profit of the Hoosier Veneer Co. was approximately
                                    $9,000. On the other hand, the Committee after making very careful
                                    investigations of timber and land values, concluded that the property was worth all
                                    they had paid for it.
                        
                           
                              
                                            Turkey
                                         Run was later the property of their son, John Lusk, who died In
                                        1915. In 1882 the 
                                 Indianapolis,
                                                Decatur
                              , and 
                                            Springfield
                                         Railroad received a franchise from John Lusk to operate a resort on
                                        the site, an operation that continued under various managements until 
                                            Turkey
                                         Run was acquired by the state of Indiana. The name 
                                            Turkey
                                         Run derived from the fact that, according to legend, thousands of
                                        wild turkeys gathered there under the protection of the overhanging rocks. Emma
                                        Lieber, Richard Lieber by His Wife, Emma (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1947), 84-85.
                           
                              5 Vice President Marshall and national Senators Kern and
                                        Taggart were from Indiana. Stewart Edward White was a well known author, many of
                                        whose works related to the American West. Lyman Abbott was a prominent
                                        Congregational clergyman and editor-in-chief of the Outlook.
                           
                        
                        
                        While the Committee was negotiating for 
                                        Turkey
                                     Run, a Committee of citizens from 
                                        Owen County
                                     informed us that McCormick's Creek Canyon was about to be sold
                                    by the Administrator of the Estate of Dr. F. W. Denkewalter,6
                                    the latter having spent a lifetime in acquiring the various portions of this scenic
                                    tract. The appraisement of the property fixed its value at $5250 and
                                    after viewing this bit of scenery, the Committee determined to buy the same provided
                                    that the citizens of 
                                        Owen County
                                     would raise one fourth of the purchase price among themselves and would
                                    guarantee that the cost would not exceed the appraisement. Due to the enterprise and
                                    civic spirit of the citizens of 
                                        Owen County
                                    , this property was acquired and will go down into history as the first
                                    link in the chain of parks to be established. It is due these people to acknowledge
                                    that if the citizens of all the counties in Indiana would show an equal interest in
                                    this movement, the state would before long be assured of one of the most magnificent
                                    systems of state parks in the country.
                        The failure to acquire 
                                        Turkey
                                     Run at the time of the auction sale interfered with the campaign to
                                    gather funds, but we were assured at that time by the gentlemen constituting the
                                    Board of Directors of the 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     Motor Speedway Association7 that if we would
                                    persist in our efforts, they would eventually aid us financially. These men more
                                    than redeemed their promise, [sic] The 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     Motor Speedway Association donated the sum of $5,065 and Mr.
                                    Arthur C. Newby, whose share of that contribution was one fourth, gave us in
                                    addition thereto the sum of $5,000. Furthermore, he has aided the
                                    Committee actively in the collection of funds to an extent that would have meant
                                    failure except for that assistance.
                        During all our work we were supported by the active and sustained interest of
                                    Governor Ralston and I wish to take this occasion to extend to him the thanks of our
                                    Committee. Furthermore, I am particularly pleased to acknowledge the most valuable
                                    assistance rendered by your acting chairman, Dr. Frank B. Wynn, who has made the
                                    work of our Committee his own and who actively participated in all our activity.
                                    Much of our success is due to his great zeal and circumspection.
                        I feel that this report would be incomplete without giving the views of our Committee
                                    on State Parks generally. Established upon a broad and substantial basis, Indiana
                                    State Parks would not only 
                              
                                 6 Dr. Frederick W. Denkewalter was a physician well
                                            known in 
                                                Owen County
                                            . McCormick's Creek Canyon is located near 
                                                Spencer
                                             in 
                                                Owen County
                                            .
                              
                                 7 The board of directors and officers of the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             Motor Speedway in 1916 were: Carl G. Fisher, president; Arthur
                                            C. Newby, first vice president; Frank H. Wheeler, second vice president; and
                                            James A. Allison, secretary-treasurer. They were the owners and builders of
                                            the Speedway, as well. Mr. Newby, a leading automobile builder of the time,
                                            was a racing enthusiast and president of the National Motor Vehicles Company
                                            of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            . Telephone interview with Al Bloemker, publicity director, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             Motor Speedway.
                           
                                     memorialize the past but would build for the
                                    future by practical conservation. They would distinctly point out the desirability
                                    of preserving trees, of protecting birds and animal life. They would constantly be a
                                    great public lesson in conservation and show the folly of prodigal waste of
                                    Indiana's superb natural resources. They would impress upon the public mind
                                    that wastefulness of Nature's beauties and treasures is out of harmony with
                                    the spirit of the time, progress and the needs of Indiana's new century.
                        The 
                                        United States
                                     Government long ago won widespread popular approval in setting aside
                                    large scenic tracts, preserving them for all time against commercial vandalism and
                                    providing immense recreational grounds. They are on a very generous scale and show
                                    what Indiana might do on a smaller scale in the accomplishment of similar ends.
                                    National Parks like the Grand Can [y] on, Yellowstone, Yo-semite and Glacier
                                    National, because of their remoteness, are available only to those Indiana people
                                    who have time and means to visit them, but a system of State Parks would bring
                                    recreation grounds close home to practically all our people.
                        While State Parks present a new idea to Indiana, there are successful examples to be
                                    found in other States that place the proposed Indiana system beyond experiment. 
                                        Massachusetts
                                     awoke to the importance of State Parks a score of years ago and has
                                    since been preserving scenic seashore, river banks and wooded hilltops that had
                                    previously been privately owned. 
                                        Massachusetts
                                     now has many parks from six to fifty acres in extent.
                        
                           
                                        Maine
                                     has made a beginning in the same direction. A still more notable
                                    achievement in State Parks is found in 
                                        New York
                                    , especially in the preservation of Niagara Falls, in the great gorge of
                                    the Genesee River, a great reservation in the
                                        Adirondack mountains, and the Pallisades along the
                                        Hudson River.
                        Not content with the National Park reservations within her borders, 
                                        California
                                     has invested $250,000 in ten thousand acres at 
                                        Boulder
                                     Creek to preserve a forest of red wood trees.
                        But 
                                        Wisconsin
                                     doubtless holds the lead in State Parks. In the beginning park
                                    enthusiasts of that State made a systematic examination of 
                                        Wisconsin
                                    's scenic resources with a view to placing the ownership in the
                                    public. One of 
                                        Wisconsin
                                    's State Parks is in Door County, including 3,800 acres. The
                                    acquisition of five or six thousand acres of forest around
                                        Devil's Lake is under way and the Dells of the
                                        Wisconsin River, and another tract of some 2,700 acres
                                    along the Mississippi River are to be added to the
                                    State's system.
                        In all of these States, as it would be in Indiana, the chief purpose of State Parks
                                    is to refresh and strengthen and renew tired people, and fit them for the common
                                    round of daily life.
                        Other States, as doubtless will Indiana, have found that there is also a cash value
                                    in scenery, an income to be derived from excursionists,  from special commercial privileges and concessions, and
                                    from fish and game, an income that can be turned toward the cost of maintenance.
                        In 
                                        Boston
                                    's elaborate Metropolitan Park system is an example of
                                    possibilities within the reach of Indiana cities which they might follow on a small
                                    scale. The 
                                        Boston
                                     system includes its own and that of thirty-seven surrounding cities,
                                    the system having established both parks and connecting parkways, and highways for
                                    motor and other traffic. The Blue Hills reservation, twelve
                                    miles from the statehouse, has 4,700 acres; Middlesex Falls, five miles from the
                                    statehouse, contains 3,200 acres, this park being bordered by five cities;
                                        Mystic Valley Parkway, along Lake and river of the same
                                    name, is a third of the larger areas in the 
                                        Boston
                                     system. Many miles of rocky and wooded tracts are included, as well as
                                    great stretches of seashore. About $7,000,000 has been spent for lands
                                    for this system and as much more is going into development, the money being raised
                                    by state, city and town taxation.
                        Density of population in Europe does not permit the creation of extensive parks. But
                                    every scenic spot, large or small, has been beautified, giving whole provinces the
                                    aspect of one large park in which are nestled villages, towns, and even cities
                                    themselves.
                        The European long ago learned the material value of scenery. The ubiquitous red
                                    Baedecker is an eloquent testimonial thereof.8 Take little 
                                        Switzerland
                                    , for instance. It has 16,000 square miles compared to 
                                        Colorado
                                    's 104,000 square miles. We do not have to read
                                    "Tartarin on the Alps"9 to know that it is the
                                    most superbly ordered and highest dividend paying scenery in the world. It is well
                                    enough to speak of Nature's hygenic value, of its recuperative and
                                    recreative strength, but when one reflects for a moment that Americans
                                    alone,– not to mention all the other nations–have left
                                    annually $50,000,000 in that little country, it is realized that scenery
                                    has an inherent cash value and that the so-called "Lungs" of a
                                    people have from a given view point a most convincing resemblance to a fat purse.
                        In conclusion, I hope and trust that the small beginning we have made will have laid
                                    the foundation for a comprehensive system of State Parks which will not only stand
                                    forever as a token of the past but which will bring health, wealth and happiness to
                                    our own generation and the many that will come after us.
                        
                                    Very respectfully yours,
                                    [Signed] Richard Lieber
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  8 The Karl Baedecker publishing firm of 
                            Leipzig
                        , 
                            Germany
                        , has published many European travel guides which are frequently bound in red. For
                        example, see Karl Baedecker, 
                     
                                Switzerland
                             and the Adjacent Portions of 
                                Italy
                            , Savoy, and Tyrol: Handbook for All Travellers (
                            New York
                        , 1913).
               
                  9 Alphonse Daudet, Tartarin of Tarascon and Tartartin on the
                            Alps (
                            New York
                        , 1910).
            
         
         
         
            
               OSCAR OSBTJRN WINTHEB 1970
            
            
            Memorial Tribute to Oscar Osburn Winther
            
                    Ray Allen Billington
                    ∗
                
            Oscar Osburn Winther, Indiana's most distinguished student of western history and since 1937
                    a leading member of Indiana University's faculty, died at 
                        Bloomington
                     on May 22, 1970, at the age of sixty-six. This is a simple, if regrettable, statement
                    of fact. But to the hundreds who knew Oscar Winther as a warm friend, and to the thousands who have
                    read or will read the dozens of books and articles that were his legacy, he will live for
                    generations to come. Oscar Winther was too fine a person and too good a historian ever to be
                    forgotten.
            His career spanned the years that gave birth to modern 
                        America
                    . Born at Weeping Water, 
                        Nebraska
                    , on December 22, 1903, of parents who had migrated from 
                        Denmark
                     eight years before, he spent most of his boyhood on an 
                        Oregon
                     dairy farm where the endless round of chores and milking made schooling a positive
                    pleasure. By the time he entered the University of 
                        Oregon
                     a few gifted high school instructors had sparked his interest in history; when he
                    graduated in 1925, he was so determined on an academic career that he endured a stint of high school
                    teaching to earn enough money to enroll in 
                        Harvard
                    's graduate school. There he earned his masters degree in 1928, but so
                    exhausted his savings that he was driven back to secondary school classrooms to recoup his modest
                    fortunes. Two years later 
                        Stanford
                     beckoned, and there under the guidance of Professor Edgar Eugene Robinson, Oscar
                    Winther not only completed his dissertation on 
                        California
                     stagecoaching but began his enduring love affair with western history. Jobs were few in
                    1934; for a time he worked as assistant curator of the Wells, Fargo and Company History Collection,
                    as Danish translator for the Hoover War Library, as teacher at the San Jose Adult Education Center.
                    When Indiana University offered him an instructorship in 1937, he had found his true haven, and
                    there he was to spend his remaining years.
            What fruitful years those were! To the cause of education, to the university, and to the world of
                    history Oscar Winther gave himself unstintingly. He served as consultant and advisor to public
                    schools throughout Indiana, was coauthor of a leading junior high school textbook, a longtime member
                    and onetime president of the Indiana State History Teachers Association, and active in the Indiana
                    Historical Society. He was a member of countless departmental and university committees and for
                    almost a decade acted as assistant or associate dean of the graduate school-a post that brought his
                    schol arly 
                  
                     ∗ Ray Allen Billington is Senior Research Associate at the
                            Henry B. Huntington Library, 
                        San Marino, California
                     .
               
                     activities to a temporary halt. On the national scene his
                    associational commitments elevated him to a front rank among historians. He was a prominent member
                    of the Organization of American Historians and for three self-sacrificing years edited its important
                        Journal of American History. He helped found the Western History Association
                    and was honored by election to the presidency and to honorary membership by that lusty young
                    society. At the time of his death he was president of the Oral History Association.
            These activities meant acclaim from the academic community. Oscar Winther held fellowships from the
                    Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, the Fulbright Commission, the 
                        Huntington
                     and Newberry libraries, the Library of Congress, and the Social Science Research
                    Council. He was invited to visiting professorships at such divergent spots as the universities of
                            
                  Oregon, Washington
               , and 
                        New Mexico
                    , the 
                        California
                     Institute of Technology, the Johns Hopkins University, 
                        Stanford
                     University, 
                        England
                    's University of Birmingham, and Alaska Methodist University. At Indiana he was
                    made University Professor in 1965 in fitting recognition of his eminence on the world scene.
            Oscar Winther took particular pride in the students whom he trained, but his fame rested more on the
                    scholarly publications that issued from his pen. Most of these were directed to a common theme; his
                    purpose was to tell the complete story of land transportation in the West prior to the age of steam,
                    and this he accomplished in a succession of books that are properly viewed as classics. They were
                    touched with greatness partly because Oscar Winther subjected each problem not only to exhaustive
                    research but to systematic and detailed analysis, partly because his own excitement permeated his
                    narratives. "Research," he wrote shortly before his death, "can be as
                    much fun as it is compulsive." Oscar Winther's books are fun to read because he
                    had fun writing them.
            Yet those who knew him only through his publications could never appreciate the true measure of the
                    man. This was a privilege reserved for his wide circle of friends. To them Oscar Winther was as warm
                    and generous as he was witty and gay. They saw him as uniquely vital, endowed with perennial youth
                    and a zestful enthusiasm that was infectious. To know the best of life was to hear Oscar Winther
                    recounting an anecdote to a small group of compatriots, his eyes sparkling, his laughter bubbling,
                    his words enhanced with gestures that showed the stamp of the born actor. He will be missed by his
                    legion of friends no less than by the academic world that has benefited so greatly from his
                    scholarship.
            
            BOOKS AND PRINCIPAL ARTICLES BY OSCAR OSBURN WINTHER
               ∗∗
            
            BOOKS
            
               
                  The Story of San Jose, 
                                California
                            's First Pueblo, 1771-1869 (
                            San Francisco
                        , 1935).
               
                  Express and Stagecoach Days in 
                                California
                            : From the Gold 
                                Rush
                             to the Civil War (
                            Stanford
                        , 1936). Reprint.
               
                  ∗
                  A Friend of the Mormons: The Private Papers and
                            Diary of Thomas Leiper Kane (
                            San Francisco
                        , 1937).
               
                  The Trans-
                                Mississippi
                             West: A Guide to Its Periodical Literature, 1811-1938 (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1942).
               
                  ∗
                  With Sherman to the Sea: The Civil War Letters,
                            Diaries & Reminiscences of Theodore F. Upson (
                            Baton Rouge
                        , 1943). Reprints.
               
                  Via Western Express & Stagecoach (
                            Stanford
                        , 1945). Reprints.
               
                  The Great Northwest: A History (
                            New York
                        , 1947). Reprints.
               
                  The Old 
                                Oregon
                             Country: A History of Frontier Trade, Transportation and Travel (
                            Stanford
                        , 1950). Reprints.
               
                  ∗
                  Diary of a Dying Empire, by Hans Peter
                        Hanssen (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1955). Translator and coeditor with Ralph H. Lutz and Mary Schofield. Reprint
                        forthcoming.
               
                  A Classified Bibliography of the Periodical Literature of the Trans-
                                Mississippi
                             West (1811-1957) (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1961). Reprint. Supplement, 1957-1967 (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1970). With Richard A. Van Orman.
               
                  The Story of Our Heritage (
                            Boston
                        , 1962). Coauthored with William H. Cart-wright. Revised edition, Volume I, 1966.
               
                  The Transportation Frontier: Trans-
                                Mississippi
                             West, 1865-1890 (
                            New York
                        , 1964). Reprint.
               
                  Our Country's Heritage: 1865-Today (
                            Boston
                        , 1971). Coauthored with William H. Cartwright.
            
            ARTICLES AXD CHAPTERS IN BOOKS
            
            
               "
                            California
                         Stage Company in 
                            Oregon
                        ," 
                     
                                Oregon
                             Historical Quarterly, XXXV (June, 1934), 131-38.
               
                  ∗"Stage-Coach Days in 
                            California
                        : Reminiscences of H. C. Ward," 
                     
                                California
                             Historical Society Quarterly, XIII (September, 1934), 255-61.
               "Stage-Coach Service in Northern 
                            California
                        , 1849-52," Pacific Historical Review, III (December,
                        1934), 386-99.
               "The Story of San Jose, 1777-1869, 
                            California
                        's First Pueblo," 
                     
                                California
                             Historical Society Quarterly, XIV (March, 1935), 3-27; XIV (June, 1935),
                        147-74.
               "Thomas L. Kane: Unofficial Emissary to the Mormons," Indiana
                            History Bulletin, XV (February, 1938), 83-90.
               "Some Agricultural and Industrial Problems in Present-Day 
                            Denmark
                        ," Indiana History Bulletin, XVI (February, 1939), 84-89.
               "Inland Transportation and Communication in 
                            Washington
                        , 1844-1859," Pacific Northwest Quarterly, XXX (October,
                        1939), 371-86. 
                     
                        ∗∗ This bibliography has been compiled by D.
                                Scott Peterson, a graduate student at Indiana University, 
                                    Bloomington
                                , and a former student of Professor Winther. Specific reprint editions of
                                books have not been listed; "reprint(s)" indicates that a book has
                                been reprinted one or more times. Because of space limitations fourteen
                                items–generally short and frequently popular in nature–have not
                                been included in this bibliography. Books and articles edited by Professor Winther are
                                indicated with an asterisk. No attempt has been made to list his more than 125
                            reviews.
                  
                    
               
               "The Development of Transportation in 
                            Oregon
                        , 1843-1849," 
                     
                                Oregon
                             Historical Quarterly, XL (December, 1939), 315-26.
               "The Roads and Transportation of Territorial 
                            Oregon
                        ," 
                     
                                Oregon
                             Historical Quarterly, XLI (March, 1940), 40-52.
               
                  ∗"Letters from Robert Dale Owen to General Joseph
                        Lane," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVI (June, 1940), 139-46.
               
                  ∗"Mrs. Butler's 1853 Diary of Rogue
                            River Valley," 
                     
                                Oregon
                             Historical Quarterly, XLI (December, 1940), 337-66. With Rosa Dodge Galey.
               "Commercial Routes from 1792 to 1843 by Sea and Overland," 
                     
                                Oregon
                             Historical Quarterly, XLII (September, 1941), 230-46.
               "Once More Day: 
                            Denmark
                        's Sorest Trial Six Centuries Ago," American-Scandinavian Review, XXX (June, 1942), 112-22.
               "
                            California
                         as a Factor in the Pacific Northwest Trade, 1829-69," 
                     
                                Huntington
                             Library Quarterly, VI (November, 1942), 13-16.
               "The Place of Transportation in the Early History of the Pacific Northwest,"
                            Pacific Historical Review, XI (December, 1942), 383-96.
               "Pack Animals for Transportation in the Pacific Northwest," Pacific Northwest Quarterly, XXXIV (April, 1943), 131-46.
               "The Soldier Vote in the Election of 1864," 
                     
                                New York
                             History, XXV (October, 1944), 440-58.
               "Early Commercial Importance of the Mullan Road," 
                     
                                Oregon
                             Historical Quarterly, XLVI (March, 1945), 22-35.
               "The Use of Climate as a Means of Promoting Migration to 
                            Southern California
                        ," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical
                        Review, XXXIII (December, 1946), 411-24.
               "The Rise of Metropolitan 
                            Los Angeles
                        , 1870-1900," 
                     
                                Huntington
                             Library Quarterly, X (August, 1947), 391-405.
               "The Robert S. Ellison Collection," Indiana Quarterly for
                            Bookmen, IV (January, 1948), 7-19.
               
                  ∗"From 
                            Tennessee
                         to 
                            California
                         in 1849: Letters of the Reeve Family of 
                            Medford
                        , 
                            New Jersey
                        ," Journal of the Rutgers University Library, XI (June,
                        1948), 33-84.
               "
                            Los Angeles
                        : Its Aquatic Life Lines," Journal of Geography, XLIX
                        (February, 1950), 45-56.
               "The Far West in Nonfiction at Mid-Century," Pacific
                        Spectator, V (
                            Spring
                        , 1951), 180-95.
               "The Colony System of 
                            Southern California
                        ," Agricultural History, XXVII (July, 1953), 94-103.
               "The English and the Far West," Westerners Brand Book, XI
                        (October, 1954), 57-59, 64.
               "The Joseph Lane Papers in the Robert S. Ellison Collection," Indiana University Bookman, No. 1 (January, 1956), 16-26.
               "Promoting the American West in 
                            England
                        , 1865-1890," Journal of Economic History, XVI (December,
                        1956), 506-13.
               "The Southern Overland Mail and Stagecoach Line, 1857-1861," 
                     
                                New Mexico
                             Historical Review, XXXII (April, 1957), 81-106.
               "The Butterfield Overland Mail: A National Landmark," Proceedings of the Third Annual Meeting of the Conference of 
                                California
                             Historical Societies (Stockton, 1957), 116-24;
               "The Persistence of Horse-Drawn Transportation in the Trans-
                            Mississippi
                         West, 1865-1900," K. Ross Toole, Robert M. Utley, John Alexander Carroll,
                        and A. R. Mortensen, eds., Probing the American West: Papers from the Santa Fe
                            Conference (Santa Fe, 1962), 42-48.
               "English Migration to the American West, 1865-1900," 
                     
                                Huntington
                             Library Quarterly, XXVII (February, 1964), 159-73.
               
               "Regionalizam U Sjedinjenim Drzavama" ["Regionalism in the 
                            United States
                        "], (Novi Sad, Yugoslavia, 1965). Paper presented at the Fifth Annual Joint
                        American-Yugoslav Seminar.
               "George P. Hammond and The Larkin Papers," 
                                California
                             Historical Society Quarterly, XLIV (March, 1965), 27-34.
               "Transcontinental Railroads: Gateways to the Orient," Conference Proceedings … The Westward Movement and Historical Involvement of the
                            Americas in the Pacific Basin (San Jose, 1966), 43-54.
               "Trails, Rails, Paddlewheels, and Frederick Jackson Turner," John Francis
                        McDermott, ed., The Frontier Re-examined (
                            Urbana
                        , 1967), 41-48.
               "The British in 
                            Oregon
                         Country: A Triptych View," Pacific Northwest Quarterly,
                        LVIII (October, 1967), 179-87.
               "The English in 
                            Nebraska
                        , 1857-1880," 
                     
                                Nebraska
                             History, XLVIII (Autumn, 1967), 209-23.
               "The Bibliographical Establishment in History," Dagmar Horna Perman, ed.,
                            Bibliography and the Historian (Santa Barbara, 1968), 134-44.
               "Immigrant Trains," RQ, VIII (
                            Spring
                        , 1969), 163-73.
               "Strictly Personal," Western Historical Quarterly, I
                        (April, 1970), 127-36.
               "The English and 
                            Kansas
                        , 1865-1890," John G. Clark, ed., The Frontier Challenge:
                            Responses to the Trans-
                                Mississippi
                             West (
                            Lawrence
                        , Kan., 1971), 235-73.
            
         
         
         
            Proclamation
            
                    TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS MAY COME, GREETING:
                
            
               WHEREAS, the State of Indiana has made outstanding and continuing contributions to
                    the development of the 
                        economy
                    , politics, education, religion, literature, science, and the arts; and
            
               WHEREAS, the Indiana General Assembly in 1967 adopted a resolution declaring April
                    of each year to be Hoosier History and Heritage Month; and
            
               WHEREAS,
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana's largest city and its State Capital since 1825, is this year
                    celebrating the sesquicentennial of its founding; and
            
               WHEREAS, augmented efforts are essential to achieve much needed additional
                    protection to and improvement in the quality of our natural environment and scenic beauty; and
            
               WHEREAS, Indiana citizens themselves have the major and substantial responsibility
                    of protecting the State's natural environment and scenic beauty as well as preserving and
                    adding to its collections of museum and manuscript material, its parks and nature preserves, its
                    historic buildings and places;
            
               NOW, THEREFORE, I, Edgar D. Whitcomb, Governor of the State of Indiana, do hereby
                    proclaim the month of April, 1971, as
            
                    HOOSIER HISTORY AND HERITAGE MONTH
                
            and recommend that exhibits, tours, lectures, pageants, and similar programs be emphasized and
                    featured throughout the month of April by historical societies, museums, schools, clubs, libraries,
                    governmental units, and similar groups and organizations to help make better known and appreciated
                    the history and heritage which is ours as Hoosiers. I further recommend that especially during April
                    students be given instruction about Indiana's history and heritage and whenever possible be
                    taken on conducted tours of such places as nature preserves, historical buildings, and scenic areas.
            
                    IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I HAVE HEREUNTO SET MY HAND AND CAUSED TO BE AFFIXED THE GREAT SEAL OF THE
                        STATE OF INDIANA, AT THE CAPITOL, IN THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, THIS 1ST DAY OF MARCH 1971.
                    [SEAL]
                    BY THE GOVERNOR [Signed] Larry A. Conrad SECRETARY OF STATE
                    [Signed] Edgar D. Whitcomb GOVERNOR OF INDIANA
                
         
         
         
            Awards of Merit and Certificates of Commendation from American Association for State and Local
                    History
            All nominations must be made on the "Awards Nomination Form" and postmarked by not later than May 15, 1971. Each nominator must include a supporting letter
                    which is explicit in indicating why the award or certificate seems merited. Each nominator is also
                    responsible for making certain that at least two or three other persons send similar statements directly to the state chairman. Finally, each nominator should send relevant
                    supporting material such as pamphlets, newspaper clippings, programs, scripts, and books. The views
                    and evaluations of various persons will be considered regarding each nomination.
            1. Certificate of Commendation. The Certificate of Commendation is given for
                    outstanding achievement by an individual or an organization in the field of state, provincial, and
                    local history, but with that achievement judged in the light of local limiting circumstances rather
                    than on a basis of overall excellence in the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     as a whole. This is an award of encouragement and commendation to a person or group
                    which by great effort has accomplished something that is really outstanding within its own area. The
                    certificate is a pat on the back and says to the individual or organization that receives it:
                    "We think, you are doing a wonderful job in your area, and we want to recognize you for
                    it."
            2. The Award of Merit. This was the original award of the American Association for
                    State and Local History and is still the backbone of its competition. It is given for excellence of
                    accomplishment or program in the field of state, provincial, and local history and is in no way
                    judged relative to local limiting circumstances. The giving of the Award of Merit is the same as
                    saying to everyone: "This is public acknowledgement by the American Association for State
                    and Local History that this accomplishment or this program, in comparison with all similar
                    accomplishments and programs in North 
                        America
                    , deserves the adjective excellent."
            Nomination forms are available from Donald F. Carmony, Ballantine Hall 742, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401. Mr. Carmony is chairman for nominations from Indiana for 1971.
         
         
         
            Indiana Museum Training Clinic
            As part of the Intersession program at Indiana University, a course in Museology (A305), sponsored by
                    the University Committee on Historic Preservation and the Indiana University Museum, will be offered
                    June 8-June 23, 1971, for three credit hours.
            Scheduled are approximately thirty hours of seminars in the history, organization, and administration
                    of museums, in addition to methods of acquisition, record keeping, storage, preservation, and
                    exhibition of specimens. Another thirty hours will include laboratory sessions involving practical
                    work projects and methods of application of theories and principles.
            This course is recommended for volunteer workers and students wishing to pursue a museum career.
                    Additional information can be obtained by writing to:
            Wesley R. Hurt Director Indiana University Museum Student Building 107 Indiana University 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401.
            The museum training clinic described above is sponsored by the Indiana University Committee on
                    Historic Preservation in response to various indications that such a program is needed and desired.
                    It should be of particular interest to both personnel and prospective personnel in the growing
                    number of local museums within Indiana.
            This basic instruction in museum work may be taken on a non-credit basis as well as for credit.
                    Inasmuch as enrollment must be limited in size in order to consider individual needs and situations,
                    early application is recommended.
            The enrollment fee for Indiana residents is $81 and for out of state residents,
                    $186 (whether taking the course for credit or non-credit). Persons wanting information
                    about housing and food services are advised to write the Director of Halls of Residence, 801 North 
                        Jordan
                    , Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401. Individuals are, however, free to make whatever arrangements they wish
                    concerning food and housing.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Empirical Studies of Indiana Politics: Studies of Legislative Behavior. Edited
                    by James B. Kessler. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1970. Pp. xvi, 298. Tables, figures, technical appendices,
                    bibliography, notes, index. $12.50.)
            
               Empirical Studies of Indiana Politics includes a series of articles which presents
                    statistical analyses of political behavior in Indiana, principally in relation to the state
                    legislature. More explicitly, these articles deal mainly with aspects of legislative behavior,
                    interactions and patterns of influence in the legislature, the recruitment of political leadership,
                    and political career building. Other articles suggest analytical methods that may be used in
                    investigating legislative behavior. The volume has a scholarly format which includes sundry tables
                    and figures, two technical appendices, explanatory and source footnotes, a lengthy bibliography, and
                    a reliable index.
            Data based studies which relate to a brief moment in time and to peculiar circumstances have limited
                    utility. Such studies do not provide an accurate description of political behavior over an extended
                    time period. The substantive articles in this book reflect this limitation. They are based upon data
                    collected during the early 1960s. Their conclusions are valid only for the unique circumstances that
                    existed when the information was obtained, e.g., during the 1961 or 1963 Indiana
                    General Assembly session. The authors, of course, are quite aware of this fact. Indeed, one of the
                    objectives of the book is to encourage research which will yield broader based conclusions about
                    political behavior in state government than are offered in this volume. In order to promote this
                    kind of research the author of each substantive article describes the methods that he used in making
                    his findings and proposes additional avenues of inquiry. An appendix contains an extensive
                    questionaire which the authors used in gathering data and which others are encouraged to use for
                    similar purposes. The approaches described in the book can be used repeatedly over an extended
                    period of time. The replication of such investigation would produce data on political behavior
                    during a significant time span, e.g., one including several legislative sessions.
                    The value of this volume may lie less in its substance than in the methods it proposes. A
                    statistical analysis of political behavior in Indiana over time has not been made. This book, should
                    it attract students interested in data based studies, may encourage research upon which such an
                    analysis could be made.
            
               Indiana State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        . William Giffin
         
         
         
            
               From Paddle Wheels to Propellers: The Howard Ship Yards of 
                            Jeffersonville
                         in the Story of Steam Navigation on the Western Rivers.
                    By Charles Preston Fishbaugh. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1970. Pp. xiii, 240. Illustrations, notes, tables,
                    figures, appendices, index. $6.50.)
            Fishbaugh's From Paddle Wheels to Propellers is another book on
                    steamboating on the western rivers. The book is, however, unique in one
                    respect. While other efforts have related the story of steam-boating, Fishbaugh's work is
                    the first attempt, to this reviewer's knowledge, at putting down the story of building
                    steamboats.
            According to Fishbaugh From Paddle Wheels to Propellers is "concentrated
                    on the story of the Howard Ship Yards as they reflect the economic history of steam navigation of
                    the Western Rivers" (p. vi). The book accomplishes its objective
                    reasonably well. It offers along the way numerous interesting and testable hypotheses about
                    developments in steamboating on inland rivers. Of special interest to business and economic
                    historians are some of the data which Fishbaugh has gathered and presented, much of which was
                    integrated from a large collection of over 265,000 manuscripts on the Howard Ship Yards and Dock
                    Company and appears for the first time in published form.
            
               From Paddle Wheels to Propellers does have some flaws. For one, the book is too
                    superficial. The author spends too much effort developing the story of steamboating on the western
                    rivers and not enough effort on the story of the Howard Ship Yards. The story of steamboating has
                    long been skillfully documented and analyzed by others, such as Louis C. Hunter in Steamboats on the Western Rivers
                (1949). Consequently, Fishbaugh, who
                    relies heavily on Hunter's work, offers nothing new in the way of major findings. There is
                    still a need, however, for a study on the economics of steamboat construction on the firm level, and
                    this is where Fishbaugh might have made a major contribution with the remarkably large collection of
                    manuscripts which he had on hand.
            In some sections of the book incomplete research leads the author to draw conclusions which are not
                    fully supported by his evidence. For example, Fishbaugh argues that the Howard Ship Yards prospered
                    between 1834 and 1850 because it could build better hulls than its numerous competitors (p. 33). As
                    evidence for this assertion he points out that steamboats on the western rivers had an average
                    lifespan of five years while boats built by the Howard Ship Yards had a seven year life expectancy.
                    This assertion may not be warranted. In a recent unpublished dissertation at Purdue University, "
                        Ohio
                     and Mississippi River Transportation, 1810-1860" (1969),
                    Erik  Haites calculates the lifespans of steamboats between 1810
                    and 1860 using the "Lytle List." Haites found that the averages for all western steamboats ranged between 4.9 and 5.0 for the years 1830-1849. On the other
                    hand steamboats which operated between 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                     had lifespans of 5.3 to 6.5 years for the same decades. Haites concluded that it was
                    safer to operate a steamboat on the lower Mississippi River than on the
                    shallower tributary rivers. From Appendix A of Fishbaugh's book it appears that most of the
                    boats built by the Howard Ship Yards operated on the lower 
                        Mississippi
                     and hence could be expected to have longer life expectancies. Therefore, while the
                    Howard Ship Yards might well have produced better steamboats than its competitors,
                    Fishbaugh's evidence for such an assertion is somewhat insufficient.
            
               University of 
                            Hawaii
                        , Honolulu James Mak
         
         
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         Canals. By Frank Wilcox. Selected and edited by William A. McGill.
                            ([
                  Kent, Ohio
               ]: The 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1969. Pp. x, 106. End maps, illustrations, bibliography.
                    $15.00.)
            
               
                  
                            Fort Wayne
                         during the Canal Era, 1828-1855: A Study of a Western Community in the
                        Middle Period of American History. By Charles R. Poinsatte. Indiana Historical
                        Collections, Volume XLVI. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ]: Indiana Historical Bureau, 1969. Pp. xi, 284. Illustrations, notes, maps, appendix,
                    index. $5.00.)
            Two books more dissimilar in purpose, format, scope, and value than the two listed above are
                    difficult to imagine. Their common feature is the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, although it is not central to either and no new information about the
                    canal itself is offered by either. The Wilcox volume is quite clearly a vehicle for eighty-odd
                    sketches, drawings, and water color paintings made by the late artist-author several years ago. The
                    paintings are remarkably handsome and vibrant, and all depict 
                        Ohio
                     canal scenes; some are recreations of the days of bustling activity at a canal lock or
                    port; others are more contemporary evocations of neglected locks and sites. Historians are indeed
                    fortunate to have the Wilcox paintings, some of which are now in private collections, reproduced and
                    made generally available. A leading member of the "
                        Cleveland
                     School," Wilcox taught at that city's Art Institute for many years.
                    This and a previous publication reveal not only his fondness for rural 
                        America
                     but also his extraordinary talent as a watercolorist.
            Readers who come to this book, however, expecting something resembling a history of the 
                        Ohio
                     canals, which served primarily as early and vital links between Lake Erie and the
                        Ohio River, will be  disappointed.
                    Wilcox' writing abilities were considerable, and he left a manuscript distinguished by
                    charmingly graceful and haunting descriptions of how the canals must have looked, what the color
                    harmonics must have been to the contemporary observer (the clear blue canal, the brassy green lock
                    water, the Indian red lock gates, the green shuttered houses nearby), and how the canals and canal
                    barges were built and operated. Yet the text in general is an unworthy companion of the
                    illustrations. Wilcox understood, as few do today, such complexities as the geographical
                    determinants of canal location, the technical difficulties of the engineers and contractors, and the
                    day to day problems of operation; but his account of individual canals in the 
                        Ohio
                     system–five of the nine chapters–is dated, incomplete,
                    unreliable, and often no more than sheer antiquarianism. Furthermore, many of the illustrations and
                    sketches, some obviously not intended by Wilcox for publication, are uncaptioned, there are no
                    footnotes to the text, and the most recent book listed in the bibliography was published in 1943,
                    the most recent article in 1947. One can understand Professor McGill's reluctance to tamper
                    with the Wilcox manuscript, but many revisions and updatings, particularly in the light of recent,
                    significant scholarship on the topic, were required. For a sound history of the 
                        Ohio
                     canals readers may now look to Harry N. Scheiber's excellent 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Canal Era (1969); the Wilcox volume serves primarily to recall pictorially a
                    day and a way of life now gone.
            Travelers on the 
                        Ohio
                     canals could, after 1843, also journey into Indiana by way of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, a waterway which eventually stretched all the way from 
                        Toledo
                     to 
                        Evansville
                    . The first major city they would encounter along that route in Indiana was 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and it is a thesis of Professor Poinsatte's, amply demonstrated in his book,
                    that the canal was the key to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's development during the "middle period." But his study is
                    of the city, not the canal; and his chief undertaking is to examine some of the generalizations
                    about the West, particularly urban development in the West, in the light of one community's
                    experiences. He does this quite successfully, capably bridging the gap between the general and the
                    particular. This is a good example of the type of study needed to support new syntheses in urban and
                    regional history. Poinsatte's command of the primary sources is excellent, and he has
                    uncovered some choice new material for urban history in scattered, little used collections.
            The study dates from the closing of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's "frontier phase" to the beginning of its railroad era.
                    After a fine, brief summary of the city's origins as both a military and trading center on
                    the ancient Maumee-
                        Wabash
                     portage, Poinsatte describes the new impetus to growth, after loss of the Indian
                    agency, provided by the prospects of the canal. He then analyzes population growth, immigration,  and the contributions of newcomers to the city. The most
                    valuable sections of the book follow. The author discusses clearly and comprehensively economic and
                    political development as well as social and cultural patterns. He establishes a close relationship
                    between institutional religion and the various reform movements sweeping the country, especially
                    temperance and abolitionism. On the latter point the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     experience confirms the existence of an apparent contradiction (although, as the author
                    notes, a similar contradiction exists today): northerners could be strongly antislavery and racist,
                    or anti-Negro, at the same time. The slow progress in establishing a public school system and
                    adequate governmental institutions is also detailed here, and there are interesting sections on such
                    diverse topics as home architecture and plank roads, the establishment of the various denominational
                    churches, and the raw returns of the 1850 census on Allen County industry. Particularly noteworthy
                    are Poin-satte's careful descriptions of the actual pattern–as opposed to the
                    legislative pattern–of land disposal and of the systematic mistreatment of the Indians
                    regarding their land, their annuities, and their ultimate removal in 1847.
            This is, in short, a good and useful book. If it does not add to an understanding of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal (the data here are taken from Benton's 1903 classic and a 1925
                    master's thesis at Indiana University), it does contribute to an understanding of urban
                    community growth in the West. The writing, although uninspiring, is careful and factual. Despite too
                    many long quotations (four chapters, including the last, end this way) and no bibliography, this
                    work is a worthy addition to its series.
            
               Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Ralph D. Gray
         
         
            
               The Frontier in the Formative Years, 1783-1815. By Reginald Horsman. Histories of the American Frontier. Edited by Ray Allen Billington. (
                        New York
                    : Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1970. Pp. xii, 237. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliographical notes, index. Paperbound, $3.50.)
            In this new volume in the Histories of the American Frontier series Reginald
                    Horsman has effectively synthesized extensive primary material and current historical scholarship.
                    To the task of elaborating American frontier history in the decisive years between the Revolution
                    and the War of 1812, Horsman brings considerable expertise. The author of four earlier studies on
                    this period (on American Indian policy, on British Indian agent Matthew Elliott, and two on the War
                    of 1812), he has an experienced feel for patterns of frontier development and the sources which
                    substantiate them.
            
            Horsman's frontier covers the widespread territory from the backcountry of the original
                    thirteen states to the early trans-
                        Mississippi
                     settlements in 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                    . He goes beyond the Turnerian conception of the frontier as the cutting edge of
                    settlement and gives full treatment to more permanently established areas which had passed beyond
                    the initial stages of development. He emphasizes the diversity of the frontier
                    experience–a diversity stemming from variations in such things as terrain, fertility,
                    water supply, access to transportation, and Indian resistance. The traditional story of migration to
                    northern and southern frontiers is here, but so also are such essential topics as governmental
                    organization, Indian policy, frontier culture and society, western economic development, and foreign
                    policy.
            A number of unifying, interpretive themes run through the book and add to its overall impact and
                    utility. For example, the constant conflict between land speculators and frontier settlers had a
                    shaping influence on western development. Seeking immediate returns from one of its few resources,
                    the federal government sold tremendous frontier tracts at bargain prices to individual speculators
                    and land companies while the provisions of land laws worked against pioneer farmers. Widespread
                    squatting resulted, as well as a politically oriented drive for liberalized land laws. The less well
                    known struggle between settlers and territorial government forms a second theme of the book. The
                    Northwest Ordinance of 1787, a model applied throughout the West, established a colonial type
                    framework for territorial government and vested excessive powers in an appointive governor and
                    judges. In the second stage of territorial government frontier legislatures had difficulty in
                    bringing governors under popular control. However, the constitution making process in western
                    states, which often pitted frontier farmers against frontier aristocrats, resulted in partial
                    democratic victories in the form of liberalized provisions on voting, office holding, and
                    legislative apportionment.
            Woven through the book is an awareness of the importance of urban development in the West, a subject
                    first detailed by Bayrd Still in 1941 and more recently developed by Richard Wade in The Urban Frontier (1959). While Horsman avoids Wade's thesis that frontier towns
                    "spearheaded" the westward movement, he emphasizes the economic and cultural
                    significance of western cities once the hinterland was permanently settled. Other themes emerge in
                    the book as well, particularly conflict between Indian and American cultures and the international
                    complications stemming from the American presence in the West.
            Based upon a wide variety of primary materials (travel accounts, 
                    territorial papers, state documents, and the publications of state and local historical societies)
                    and the latest monographs, this is an able and well written study that admirably accomplishes its
                    goal of synthesis. Full documentation, an extensive bibliography, a workable index, and numerous
                    maps and illustrations further recommend the volume to general readers and scholars alike.
            
               
                  
                            Florida
                         Atlantic University, Boca Raton Raymond A. Mohl
         
         
            
               America's Frontier Story: A Documentary History of Westward Expansion.
                    Edited by Martin Ridge and Ray Allen Billington. (
                        New York
                    : Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1969. Pp. xxi, 657. Notes, illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $6.95.)
            For over two decades Ray Allen Billington's Westward Expansion has been
                    the mainstay of the university western history course. That fine work has now been supplemented by
                        America's Frontier Story, a chronicle of the westward movement as
                    recorded by its participants. The story is important, the editors note, "because it speaks
                    of the frontier spirit, the spirit of daring, of enterprise, of hope, that has become a part of the
                    American tradition–and has not been completely weathered away by the substitution of an
                    industrial-urban environment in the twentieth century" (p. vi).
            Although it can stand on its own merits, America's Frontier Story is
                    evidently intended for use as a companion to Westward Expansion and should be
                    welcomed by students and instructors alike. Indeed, the chapters in each work follow a similar
                    pattern, tracing the course of expansion from the arrival of 
                        Columbus
                     in the Americas into the twentieth century. The readings, however, are confined almost
                    entirely to the traditional story of the westward movement. Except for photographs, 
                        Hawaii
                     and Alaska go unnoticed, and there is almost a total absence of material on minority
                    groups other than the Indian. This is somewhat surprising since the textbook contains a chapter on
                    slavery in the West. To help make the study of western history more relevant in this era of student
                    activism it would have been appropriate to include documents about the role of the Chinese, the
                    Mexican-American, and the Negro in the frontier story.
            
               America's Frontier Story surpasses the textbook in the magnificent
                    portfolio of some fifty photographs which in themselves document the camera's westward
                    movement. The large number of pictures also no doubt accounts for the high cost of this paperbound
                    book. Nevertheless, here Alaska and the minority groups are well represented, with pictures of Negro
                    homesteaders in 
                        Nebraska
                    , Negro cowboys in 
                        Texas
                    , a Negro prospector in 
                        Alaska
                    , and Chinese  laborers in a 
                        California
                     gold field. These and the other photographs–of immigrant families resting by
                    their covered wagons, a barn raising in 
                        Minnesota
                    , cowboys dancing with each other, a lynching in 
                        Colorado
                    –are stark and striking evidence of the frontier spirit, daring, enterprise,
                    and hope that has become a part of the American tradition.
            
               National Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D. C. Herman J. Viola
         
         
            
               Frontier Capitalist: The Life of John Evans. By Harry E. Kelsey, Jr. ([
                        Denver
                    ]: State Historical Society of 
                        Colorado
                     and the Pruett Publishing Company, 1969. Pp. xiv, 371. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $12.50; deluxe edition, $15.00.)
            The story of Governor John Evans is well known in western history. In many respects the most
                    interesting of all the famous names connected with 
                        Colorado
                     Territory, Evans was a curious combination of dreamer, promoter, and man of action. In
                    an age of political spoilsmen and unscrupulous businessmen Evans was an anomaly, notwithstanding his
                    occasional surrender to expediency and vindictiveness. This biography by Harry E. Kelsey, which
                    supplements and, in many ways, revises the early study (1924) by Edgar C. McMechen, is welcome.
            A physician, founder of universities, humanitarian, businessman, railroad builder, and politician,
                    Evans attained prominence in three states–Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Colorado
                    . He combined a religious commitment to the betterment of society with an ambition for
                    worldly place and fortune. He launched a successful movement for the establishment of the first
                    mental hospital in Indiana, took a leading part in the founding of Northwestern University, invested
                    in real estate in both 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Evanston
                    , and became the director of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     Railroad, foreshadowing his great railroad achievements in 
                        Colorado
                    .
            Throughout his life Evans had an amazing ability to shut out the immediate past and move to new
                    adventure. In 1862 he journeyed from 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Colorado
                     where he served as territorial governor and where he made a fortune in real estate and
                    railroad construction. Although his term as chief executive was short lived and complicated by his
                    handling of Indian relations, his achievements were relatively impressive considering the
                    vacillating governmental policies and meddling Indian Bureau politicians. The author concludes that
                    Evans was removed from office in 1865 because of political pressure in 
                        Washington
                     rather than from his inability to handle the Indian problem.  Although Evans remained active in Republican party politics, his
                    primary concerns were the economic development of 
                        Colorado
                     and the attainment of economic self-interests. His business ability and prestige were
                    determining factors in bringing railroad facilities to the state. Evans organized and built three
                    main railroads, including the 
                        Denver
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                     that eventually gave 
                        Colorado
                     an outlet to the Gulf of 
                        Mexico
                    . His boundless energy also found expression in the building of the University of 
                        Denver
                     and in the creation of the 
                        Denver
                     Board of Trade.
            
               Frontier Capitalist makes especially useful contributions toward interpreting the
                    nineteenth century business rationale and filling some of the enormous lacunae in our knowledge of
                    the economic growth and development of the American West. The book is also a worthwhile study of
                    capitalism at work on the frontier. It reveals how, through the ambitious dreams of one man and the
                    instrumentality of agents, capital, and the products of capital investments– especially
                    railroads–contributed measurably toward booming 
                        Denver
                    , a small mountain town, into a city of metropolitan proportions during the last quarter
                    of the nineteenth century.
            Kelsey has written a critical but not unsympathetic biography. He develops his subject by exposition
                    rather than by interpretation, and he is objective in presentation, no easy task in some of the
                    complicated and controversial events he encounters. Not all, however, will agree with the author
                    that Evans refrained from the manipulation of men and money in the advancement of his schemes for
                    wealth or that he received the appointment as territorial governor because of his prominence in the
                    Republican party and widespread experience in politics prior to 1862. Nevertheless, none will deny
                    that Evans was worthy of a new biography, and most will agree that this study is in most respects a
                    thoroughly satisfactory account.
            Originally written as a doctoral dissertation, Kelsey's volume contains copious footnotes
                    and an impressive bibliography which are evidences of thorough research. However, the writing is
                    frequently heavy and pedantic as insignificant details sometimes interrupt the flow of events. Had
                    the author limited the requirement to document virtually every statement, the study could have been
                    turned into an exciting biography. The footnotes–totaling 1,442–which in this
                    volume should have been at the bottom of the page, have been relegated to the back of the book.
                    Although this format is economical for the publisher, it definitely annoys the reader.
            
               
                  
                            Kansas
                         State Historical Society, 
                            Topeka
                        
                Joseph G. Gambone
         
         
         
            
               Con-Con: Issues for the 
                            Illinois
                         Constitutional Convention. Papers prepared by the Constitutional Research
                    Group. Directed by Samuel K. Gove; edited by Victoria Ranney. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1970. Pp. xii, 512. Notes, selected bibliographies, appendices, indices.
                    Paperbound, $1.95.)
            This is a collection of eighteen background papers written by political scientists, law teachers, and
                    lawyers to stimulate independent thinking by the delegates to the 
                        Illinois
                     Constitutional Convention which convened in 
                        Springfield
                     on December 8, 1969. The book's purpose obviously is not to prepare a proposed
                    draft of a new constitution but to furnish 1970 ideas and guidelines to delegates seeking to replace
                    the document produced by the last successful effort in 1870.
            To review each paper separately would be of little value. The net result of the collection is the
                    presentation of a broad range of historical facts, methods, and policy considerations. Inevitably
                    there is some repetition, but that does not detract from the value of the collection. For example,
                    the paper on the legislative article would be incomplete without consideration of the consequences
                    of the executive veto power. However, the paper on the executive article would be equally incomplete
                    if no consideration was given to the executive veto. The paper on urban problems necessarily
                    includes a discussion on public finance and the legal aspects of revenue although both of these
                    topics are properly allotted their separate papers.
            The first paper quite appropriately deals with the nature and purpose of the state constitution in
                    general, making a case for brevity and the enunciation of principles and for leaving many details to
                    the more flexible direction of the legislature. Even though a separate paper deals exclusively with
                    a state Bill of Rights, the introductory paper points out that such a section may protect more
                    strongly than the first eight amendments to the federal Constitution, in which the rights guaranteed
                    have gradually been extended to state action under the Fourteenth Amendment.
            The paper on the General Assembly discusses the unique 
                        Illinois
                     method of electing members to the House of Representatives under the present
                    constitution. In each of fifty-nine districts one senator and three representatives are elected. In
                    electing members of the House each voter has three votes. Instead of voting for three candidates,
                    however, he may cast his three votes for only one. The result of this cumulative voting system has
                    been to make the typical party division in the House a very close thing.
            The remaining papers cover a broad variety of topics. In one, the problems of guaranteeing civil
                    rights are carefully explored, and the historical background, both federal and state, is reviewed.
                    In  another the various aspects of the right of
                    suffrage–such as age, citizenship, residence, and literacy–are surveyed, and
                    comparisons with requirements in other states are noted. In a third the method of judicial selection
                    and removal and the organization of the courts are discussed, and some recommendations are
                    suggested. Local government outside Cook County (
                        Chicago
                    ) is adequately covered, but the ever increasing problems of urban government and what a
                    constitution should do about them receives major attention. The controversial issue of how much
                    "home rule" local government should have is thoughtfully presented. Of course all
                    these problems are inextricably intertwined with the methods of public finance and the legal aspects
                    of revenue and the methods of taxation and exemption therefrom. The discussions on these topics
                    produce more problems than answers.
            Three papers deal with regulation of business, namely, corporations, banks and warehouses, and
                    transportation. The paper on regulation of transportation points out the problems raised by any
                    attempted repeal of the tax provisions in the charter of the 
                        Illinois
                     Central. The paper on education raises the question of the necessity for a
                    constitutional article on education and criticizes some of the content of the article in the present
                    constitution. The dilemma seems really to be over which elements of the problem are so fundamental
                    that they should be set out in the constitution and which should be left to the legislature. The
                    final paper deals with the amending process.
            This collection, while focused on the problems facing the 
                        Illinois
                     constitution makers, deals with fundamentals and will be of inestimable value to
                    constitution makers in other states.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Leon H. Wallace
         
         
            
               Stump, Bar, and Pulpit: Speechmaking on the 
                            Missouri
                         Frontier. By Frances Lea McCurdy. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1969. Pp. xiii, 218. Illustration, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            From the pulpit, the bar, the commencement platform, and the stump, two generations of speakers
                    captivated audiences on the 
                        Missouri
                     frontier with their colorful metaphors, earthy humor, and homely illustrations.
                    Utilizing the thesis that "the process of testing and popularizing ideas of democracy is
                    most clearly traced in the rhetoric of the frontier speaker" (p. xi), Frances McCurdy
                    analyzes a significant number of formal and informal speeches delivered between 1803 and 1850.
                    Noting the assumptions, reasoning, strategems,  and language
                    favored by Missourians to persuade their listeners, she concludes that "the sovereign power
                    of the people, the mobility of classes, the glorious future of the West, and the virtue of
                    landholding were no more questioned … than was reverence due to motherhood, God, and
                    country" (p. 186).
            Using a topical organization, McCurdy tests her thesis by examining the rhetoric of six disparate
                    types of speakers. By preaching that all men (save black men) were equal in the sight of God,
                    frontier ministers promoted Jacksonian democracy as well as decency and morality. Although they
                    fought against popular control of judicial processes, lawyers often proclaimed the merits of
                    democracy in their courtroom pleas. The candidate for public office was forced to repeat his love
                    for republican principles since to be accused of despising the common man was worse than to be
                    charged with hog stealing. Once elected, public officials had to explain their votes on
                    controversial questions to their constituents. Even the addresses of student orators echoed
                    Jacksonian ideals. Seeing themselves as a people chosen by God to inhabit the best governed country
                    in the world, they predicted for themselves a future filled with promise. On ceremonial occasions
                    speakers repeated encomiums to the common man's wisdom and virtue, praised democratic
                    principles, and encouraged optimism about the growth and development of the country.
            Ten years of research support McCurdy's conclusions. She has examined a considerable number
                    of often hard to find speech manuscripts and newspaper accounts of speechmaking activities. Her
                    narrative is generally well organized, and a dry humor adds to the readability of the book. The
                    reader may be disappointed that, although the narrative covers a fifty year period, McCurdy makes
                    little or no effort to trace the development of ideas or to show changes in persuasive techniques.
                    She treats ceremonial addresses, courtroom pleadings, and antislavery sermons statically, rather
                    than attempting to show their development over the years or to explain their lack of change. McCurdy
                    also has a slight tendency to overgeneralize from her data. Thus she will use a plural subject,
                    "speakers," but will note only one speech (pp. 37, 39). This reviewer has the
                    feeling that she could cite many other examples of the same type, but she does not.
            Despite such shortcomings McCurdy's selection of speeches and anecdotes vividly recreates
                    the 
                        Missouri
                     frontier. The reader relives a time when the common man, in speeches at least, reigned
                    supreme, when legal arguments were worth listening to, and when students debating the question:
                    "Is the mind of man superior to that of woman?" quickly decided in the
                    affirmative.
            
               Fresno State College, Fresno Hal W. Bochin
         
         
         
            
               Strong-Minded Women: The Emergence of the Woman-Suffrage Movement in 
                            Iowa
                        . By Louise R. Noun. (
                        Ames
                    : The 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1969. Pp. xv, 322. End maps, illustrations, notes, biographical
                    notes, appendices, bibliography, index. $8.75.)
            Many reform movements are remembered only for their eccentricities and failures; their positive
                    contributions remain buried. In this book Louise Noun does a thorough job of uncovering the
                    accomplishments and disappointments of 
                        Iowa
                     suffragists during Reconstruction and the years that immediately followed. The
                    author's purposes in selecting one state for a comprehensive study are to show how a
                    women's suffrage movement developed within a state and to examine what effects the
                    personalities and actions of nationally known leaders had upon a young regional organization.
            The emergence of the women's suffrage movement in 
                        Iowa
                    , says the author, "was a direct outgrowth of agitation in the early
                    1840's for amelioration of the legal disabilities" (p. 57). From 1840-1860 the
                    rights of women were increased; yet many concerned women's rights advocates could cite
                    numerous laws which unjustly discriminated against women. Convinced that the only true way to alter
                    their unequal position in society was through voting, suffragists in 
                        Iowa
                     after the Civil War urged their state congressmen to pass an amendment granting women
                    the ballot. The women, however, were warned not to impede the drive for Negro suffrage with demands
                    for their own enfranchisement. " ‘This is the Negro's Hour, they were
                    told. The Negro once safe, woman comes next,’ was the catch phrase of the
                    moment" (p. 36). Hopeful that suffrage would be granted their sex after the ratification of
                    the Fifteenth Amendment in 1870, suffragists for the second time in five years introduced a bill to
                    the 
                        Iowa
                     legislature. While the amendment was passed by the state congress in 1870, it was
                    defeated by the legislature of 1872. The author blames the defeat of this bill on several factors:
                    the "scolding" rhetoric of the women, the rampant dissension that plagued both the
                    state and national movement, and the unfavorable publicity the suffrage movement received by having
                    in its ranks Victoria Woodhull, a notorious free love advocate (p. 221). Only twice after the
                    General Assembly first approved a women's suffrage amendment in 1870 did the legislature
                    again approve such an amendment, and in intervening years the measure was killed in the House or
                    Senate by one or two unexpected votes. In spite of the persistent efforts and the dedicated
                    leadership of such outstanding suffrage personalities as Amelia Bloomer, Annie Savery, Jane
                    Swisshelm, and Carrie Chapman Catt, a suffrage amendment was not ratified in 
                        Iowa
                     until June 2, 1919.
            
            Unlike many overzealous authors who write on women's suffrage, Noun presents the entire
                    movement in a scholarly detached manner. Because she has done an exhaustive job researching this
                    subject, she adds much new information to the history of both the 
                        Iowa
                     and national women's suffrage movements. Her personality sketches of the
                    suffragists are colorful and informative, and the illustrations and drawings she includes in the
                    text add flavor to her story.
            Perhaps the major flaw of this book is that it fails to emphasize adequately the role played by
                    liquor interests in defeating suffrage proposals. The author should have emphasized that suffrage
                    was defeated many times partially if not primarily because of the liquor industries' strong
                    opposition. While the author does make two illusions to this factor, the concept is never fully
                    developed. In spite of this slight deficiency Noun is to be commended for what should prove a
                    significant contribution to the knowledge of the women's suffrage movement in the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               The University of 
                     Georgia, Athens
                  
                Janice M. Smith
         
         
            
               Anglo-American Political Relations, 1675-1775. Edited by Alison
                    Gilbert Olson and Richard Maxwell Brown. (
                        New Brunswick
                    : Rutgers University Press, 1970. Pp. x, 283. Notes, index. $10.00.)
            This collection of scholarly articles is an outgrowth of the Twentieth Conference on Early American
                    History held at Rutgers University in October, 1966, at which time Richard S. Dunn, Stanley N. Katz,
                    David Alan Williams, and Richael Kammen delivered papers, here published, on the theme of
                    Anglo-colonial political relations in the century preceding the American Revolution. For the purpose
                    of this volume the editors solicited additional articles from David S. Lovejoy, Thomas C. Barrow,
                    and John Shy and a bibliographical essay by Joseph E. Illick. The editors themselves contributed
                    introductory essays: Olson summarizes the studies and points out future lines of inquiry while Brown
                    places them within a behavioral, analytical framework. The essays by Kammen, Dunn, Katz, and Barrow
                    have been preempted by their subsequent fuller publications, either in book or article form. In
                    themselves the contributions by the other authors are valuable for their particular content. The
                    bibliographical piece by Illick shows an admirable grasp of the recent literature, but given the
                    limitations of space it cannot do justice to the monographs discussed. It is nonetheless a good
                    introduction for students who wish to delve further into the field. In her introductory essay
                    Professor Olson is perhaps too quick to accept conclusions from limited  evidence and study. Citing the work of Katz to the effect that the Duke
                    of Newcastle's appointments in 
                        New York
                     were "abysmal" she suggests that a comparison of his appointees with
                    those of the Marquis of Halifax, usually considered a superb administrator, would show that there
                    was little difference between the governors nominated by the two ministers. But surely this is too
                    limited a sample. Moreover whatever the quality of Newcastle's appointments for 
                        New York
                    , what of William Shirley for 
                        Massachusetts
                     and others?
            Taken together these essays implicitly attack the notion that for most of the century there were
                    American as distinct from imperial or English interests and that colonial political developments
                    were institutional or ideological, occurring within the local rather than the imperial framework.
                    They demonstrate further the extent to which American politicians sought to use English connections
                    to advance their particular interests. In this respect the studies diverge from the imperial
                    "school" which sees a pattern in the rise of the provincial legislatures at the
                    expense of imperial and executive authority. Olson attempts to bridge this gap, but this reviewer is
                    not convinced that there did indeed develop in 
                        England
                     during the last two decades preceding the American Revolution pressure groups which
                    reduced the chances for compromise and accommodation, or that separate English and American interest
                    groups self-consciously began to develop by the middle of the century and so broke down the
                    Anglo-colonial connection. The research done by Katz on the period before the outset of the Seven
                    Years' War indeed goes far to confirm such a connection, but it can hardly be used to
                    sustain an argument for developments after 1753. Nor does the work of Kammen on the years after
                    1755, published here and elsewhere, sustain the thesis as the operations of a host of agents, land
                    speculators, office seekers, and merchants testify.
            
               University of 
                     Nebraska, Lincoln
                  
                Jack M. Sosin
         
         
            
               Hannibal Hamlin of 
                            Maine
                        : Lincoln's First Vice-President. By H. Draper Hunt. (
                        Syracuse
                    : 
                        Syracuse
                     University Press, 1969. Pp. ix, 292. Frontispiece, notes to chapters, bibliography,
                    index. $9.00.)
            Hannibal Hamlin was a respectable public mediocrity of the mid nineteenth century, a man for neither
                    the best nor worst of times, a man of neither the best talents nor the worst incapacities. He was
                    popular with his 
                        Maine
                     constituents, and until he became vice president in 1860 and thus lost the patronage
                    which was the prerogative of a senator, he assiduously kept his political fences mended. Indeed,  one of his two chief complaints about the vice presidency was
                    that it rendered him unable to help his friends who, failing to understand that the prestige of his
                    office carried no power with it, might mistake his inability to provide for them with an
                    unwillingness to do so. His second complaint was the more traditional one of the futility of serving
                    as a spare life–of having no responsibility, no influence on decisions, few duties, and
                    those chiefly ceremonial and altogether boring. His attendance as presiding officer of the Senate,
                    for example, was much inferior to his attendance record as a senator. In the latter position he had
                    been able to participate in activities as a "working senator"; in the former he,
                    and therefore others, regarded his presence as superfluous.
            During Hamlin's early years as a politician he was a conscientious worker and a loyal party
                    man for the Democracy, but by the late 1840s his opposition to the extension of slavery made him
                    feel uncomfortable within his own party. Endorsement of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill by the Democratic National Convention provided the occasion for his transfer to
                    the Republicans. In 1856 he campaigned energetically for John Charles Frémont and for
                    himself as governor of 
                        Maine
                    . The victorious state Republicans elected him to the 
                        United States
                     Senate, and the rest was inevitable. As a former Democrat and a resident of an area
                    complementary to the western locality of the presidential candidate, Hamlin was nominated to the
                    ticket with Abraham Lincoln in 1860. By 1864 he had decided that another four years of idleness was
                    preferable to challenging his old rival in 
                        Maine
                    , William P. Fessenden. Lincoln, however, had decided that there was a need to broaden
                    the appeal of the administration by adding a southerner and a War Democrat to it. In spite of
                    disappointment Hamlin campaigned faithfully and was rewarded with the collectorship of 
                        Boston
                    . In 1869 he regained a Senate seat where his support of the Grant administration
                    brought him a "portion of patronage loaves and fishes [that] satisfied even his hearty
                    appetite" (p. 209). Hamlin closed his political career as ambassador to 
                        Spain
                     during the administrations of James A. Garfield and Chester A. Arthur.
            The book is an exceptionally thorough and a particularly well reasoned political biography. Apart
                    from a few irritatingly clever thumbnail sketches the author writes both forcefully and
                    unobtrusively. This was an exceptional period in the history of the 
                        United States
                    ; a biography of a most unexceptional and singularly unperceptive man provides a norm
                    for the stabilization of judgment about how many people regarded and reacted to the affairs of their
                    own time. The book is more factual than analytical, but the author's arrangement  of these facts in itself encourages additional thinking on the part of
                    the reader.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                Victoria Cuffel
         
         
            
               Roosevelt and World War II. By Robert A. Divine. (
                        Baltimore
                    : The Johns Hopkins Press, 1969. Pp. x, 107. Frontispiece, notes, index.
                    $5.95.)
            In this brief, overpriced volume Robert Divine offers four carefully reasoned essays in which he
                    attempts "to reappraise Roosevelt's policy in regard to World War II" (p.
                    x). This material was originally presented as the Albert Shaw Lectures in Diplomatic History at the
                    Johns Hopkins University in April of 1968.
            Divine differs sharply with the standard interpretation of Franklin Roosevelt as a Wilsonian
                    internationalist who was forced to play a semiisolationist role in the 1930s in order to appease a
                    vociferous isolationist majority. Not so at all says Divine; Roosevelt really was an isolationist,
                    not out of political expediency but out of "genuine conviction" (p. 7). Not until
                    the end of 1938, in the aftermath of the Munich crisis, did Roosevelt move in the direction of
                    internationalism.
            As for Roosevelt's alleged belief in Wilsonian notions of collective security, the author
                    contends that Roosevelt steadily shifted away from the collective security beliefs he had professed
                    up to 1920. Thus, Divine sees Roosevelt's disavowal of the League of Nations in 1932 not so
                    much as an expedient surrender to the demands of William Randolph Hearst but as "the
                    culmination of Roosevelt's gradual disenchantment" with the League (p. 56).
                    Disillusioned by the League's failure to act effectively in the 1930s, Roosevelt envisioned
                    that the 
                        United States
                    , Britain, Russia, and 
                        China
                     would be the policemen of the postwar world. In light of the failure of the United
                    Nations to keep the peace in the postwar years it is increasingly difficult to fault
                    Roosevelt's judgment.
            Neither right nor left–old or new versions–will like Divine's
                    interpretation of Roosevelt's wartime relations with the 
                        Soviet Union
                    . In the author's view, FDR was not a naive egotistical American politician who
                    thought he could charm Joseph Stalin into submission but a calculating pragmatist who throughout the
                    war fought valiantly to preserve allied unity for the peace that was to come. Admittedly, Roosevelt
                    failed to achieve this, but Divine maintains that Roosevelt's efforts "threw the
                    onus for the Cold War squarely upon Stalin" (p. 98).
            This reviewer finds Divine least persuasive when he says that Roosevelt was an isolationist in the
                    1930s. Even a cursory reading  of Edgar Nixon's three
                    volumes, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Foreign Affairs (1969), reveals that Roosevelt
                    had a very deep interest in foreign affairs even in the earliest years of the New Deal and that as
                    early as 1934 he was greatly troubled by the growing belligerence of 
                        Germany
                    . His replies to the alarm filled letters of Ambassador William E. Dodd indicate that he
                    felt helplessly stymied by the great isolationist strength in 
                        America
                    . Roosevelt's letters reveal a curious mixture of reluctant isolationism and
                    timid internationalism. The evidence is far from conclusive, and one can still make a very strong
                    case à la Basil Rauch that Roosevelt was a most reluctant isolationist. On balance, this
                    interpretation continues to be more plausible to this reviewer. Nevertheless, this is a stimulating
                    little book that can be read with much profit by both Roosevelt's admirers and his
                    detractors.
            Indiana University, 
                        South Bend
                     Charles J. Tull
         
         
            
               The Life and Decline of the American Railroad. By John F. Stover. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1970. Pp. xi, 324. Maps, illustrations, selected bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            This is a disappointing book, primarily because the author has attempted the difficult, if not
                    impossible, task of combining detailed historical narrative with a description and analysis of the
                    current plight of the American railroads. Roughly one half the book is a chronological account of
                    the geographical diffusion of the railroad in the 
                        United States
                     from the time the first track was laid to the present. The remainder is concerned with
                    the two main problems facing the railroads: diminishing demand for passenger service (Chapters 7 and
                    8) and vigorous competition for freight traffic (Chapter 9). The author reserves the final chapter
                    to speculate on the future of the railway industry. There is not likely to be any quarrel with his
                    conclusion: "American railroads are still viable today. Tomorrow's 
                        America
                     will still have many transportation chores which can most efficiently be performed by
                    railroads" (p. 293).
            John Stover, who is professor of history at Purdue University, is more successful in setting out the
                    historical narrative than he is in diagnosing and prescribing for the chronically sick railroads.
                    The critical weakness of his diagnosis of current railway ills is the lack of any framework of
                    economic analysis within which to place these problems and by which to evaluate their significance.
                    He recites all of the reasons that have been put forward to explain the disappearance of the
                    railroad passenger coach in the sixties: featherbedding practices of labor, competition from road
                    and air transport, bungling administration by the regulatory agencies, but he gives no hint how  these various causes should be evaluated. Nor does he provide
                    the hard evidence which would allow the reader to do it for himself. Perhaps the most glaring gap in
                    Stover's historical account of the role played by the railroad in American economic
                    development is his failure to mention the distinguished contributions of Albert Fishlow and Robert
                    Fogle, two young American economic historians who have done much to pump some new life into this old
                    and tarnished subject.
            The book has many organizational weaknesses which were probably inevitable considering the nature of
                    the two different tasks the author undertook. The first four chapters pursue the story of the
                    railroad down to the present. The narrative is abruptly broken off in Chapter 5 by a very brief
                    history of the rise of the railroad's greatest competitors: the electric interurban, the
                    automobile and truck, the airplane, the pipeline, and barge and tow freight traffic. The author then
                    returns in Chapter 6 to a detailed description of the development of the railroad during and between
                    both world wars. Fully two thirds of this chapter dwells on the twenty-six months of federal control
                    during and immediately after World War I. Three pages are devoted to the interwar years!
            Perhaps the occasion for the book explains the duality of the author's purpose.
                    Stover's work is a contribution to the celebration of the centennial year (1969) of
                    transcontinental railroading.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Elmus Wicker
         
         
            
               William Hickling Prescott: A Biography. By C. Harvey Gardiner. Introduction by
                    Allan Nevins. (Austin: University of 
                        Texas
                     Press, 1969. Pp. xxi, 366. Illustration, notes, manuscript collections cited, index.
                    $7.50.)
            This is no mere biography. The stuff of biography is here: the relationships of William H. Prescott
                    to his clan, to individual members of the family, and to his multitude of relatives and friends are
                    so carefully elaborated that the reader emerges thoroughly familiar with them all. William was so
                    completely a Prescott that this aspect of his life cannot be divorced from his career as a writer.
                    Gardiner has admirably woven Prescott's family, social, business, and meager political life
                    into his story in such a way that, in spite of the quantity of space it occupies in the biography,
                    it does not in the slightest detract from the central theme: Prescott the intellectual.
            Above all, Gardiner's book is an intellectual journey, the kind of book Prescott with his
                    peculiar family orientation might have written about himself if he had known and attempted to ape 
                        Henry
                     Adam's Education. Throughout his study Gardiner has kept
                    himself in the  background. But he is too capable a historian to
                    produce an uncritical puff. Fortunately for his biographer, Prescott was aware of most of his
                    weaknesses, and whenever Gardiner wishes to level criticism at his subject with respect to such
                    characteristics as procrastination and frequent indecision, quotations from Prescott are introduced
                    which suffice. In his own estimations of Prescott's work Gardiner is detached and honest.
                    He is at his best in elaborating the influence of the heroic epic on Prescott's conception
                    of history.
            Given the proportions of this review it would be wholly unfair to introduce the reviewer's
                    minor disagreements and reservations. In the main only one question which Gardiner does not answer
                    occurs: why did Prescott not go to 
                        Spain
                     on his second–and last–trip to Europe? As biography and an
                    intellectual history the work is superb. Gardiner, it seems, is the latest in the multitude of
                    gifted men who have loyally and ably served William H. Prescott.
            
               
                  
                            North Texas
                         State University, Denton Lee Huddleston
         
         
            
               Mark Twain & the Community. By Thomas Blues. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1970. Pp. xii, 84. Notes, index. $4.95.)
            Blues, in this little book which he calls an essay, discusses most of the materials relevant to his
                    topic, although he concentrates on the novel which is pivotal to any critic's assessment of
                    Mark Twain– A 
                            Connecticut
                         Yankee in King Arthur's Court. Briefly, the author argues that
                    because Mark Twain's attitude toward the stable world of societal values was ambiguous, his
                    early boy heroes triumph over the community without being expelled from it. Just as he allows Tom
                    Sawyer to "fetch" St. Petersburg, which even lionizes his duplicities and
                    transgressions, so does he transform a larger society in Huckleberry Finn
                    "to grant Huck his triumph over it without really threatening
                    it"–through Miss Watson's deathbed act of freeing Jim (p. 20).
            This "machinery of compromise" fails in A 
                            Connecticut
                         Yankee, in which Hank Morgan, though he articulates many of his
                    creator's views on technological progress as opposed to mindless medievalism,
                    "breaks with the community, attempts to destroy it, and ends his life in isolation and
                    despair" (p. 38). The delicate balance between the individual and the community, once
                    shattered in this novel, disappears completely in Mark Twain's later work with the use of
                    the "old-man" narrator, the cynical tutor who teaches that society is utterly
                    contemptible, self-delusive, and dangerous.
            The case is persuasively argued, although Blues must stretch his 
                    category of Mark Twain's "old-man" figures to include young Satan of The
                    Mysterious Stranger papers–"he is actually 16,000 years old" (p.
                    61)–Tom of Tom Sawyer Abroad, and David Wilson, the fingerprint expert
                    of Pudd'nhead Wilson, who functions as both an
                    "old-man" figure and the representative spokesman for community values. Much of
                    the critics' difficulty with late Mark Twain lies, of course, in the heavy handed
                    conception of his truth tellers as only pieces of "machinery." Even
                    Blues' admirable reading of "The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg" cannot
                    make that story better than the moralistic bore it is.
            Although his general conclusions about both the progressively bitter views of Mark Twain and the
                    mixed success of his fiction offer nothing significantly new, Blues' imaginatively
                    sustained and substantiated thesis does. And in going against the practice of even the best
                    scholars, he is to be praised for insisting on the use of the full Mark Twain
                    rather than the illogical Twain. Finally, the graceful execution of the text is
                    complemented by a handsome format.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                James H. Justus
         
         
            
               Poles in American History and Tradition. By Joseph A. Wytrwal. (
                        Detroit
                    : Endurance Press, 1969. Pp. 485. Notes, bibliography, index. $6.75.)
            This is an amateur, popular history of the role some Poles have played in American history, with
                    heavy emphasis upon the activities of individuals–some well known (such as 
                        Pulaski
                    ) and some not–in America's wars from the war for national
                    independence through 
                        Vietnam
                    . It is filled with a marvelous variety of information, some relevant and some not. It
                    breathes a patriotic spirit not fashionable these days, even among Americans of Polish origin, and
                    it has an old fashioned reverence toward the old heroes, such as Kosciuszko, to whom twenty-six
                    pages are devoted. It is remarkably fair and objective in its treatment of Russian rule over 
                        Poland
                     and of the conflict between Irish Catholics and Polish Catholics in this country. The
                    brief treatment of the Polish National Catholic Church is also remarkably objective.
            
               Poles in American History and Tradition is the product of an unskilled but devoted
                    historian. It is badly organized and lacks coherence except for the concentration upon military
                    conflict. It provides almost no political or social analysis, and it concentrates upon outstanding
                    or prominent individuals such as Mojeska, Sophie Tucker, and Barney Balaban. It confuses the history
                    of the Poles who remained under foreign rule with those who immigrated to the United  States. Thus, Krasinski, Chopin, Sienkiewicz, and Paderewski are
                    treated as though they were Americans. The bibliography is alphabetical and uncritical; it lumps
                    together books of all kinds with journal articles and newspaper articles, and it is by no means
                    complete.
            In short, this is an unsatisfactory volume even for the popularization function for which it was
                    designed.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Robert F. Byrnes
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Natural Areas in Indiana and Their Preservation. By Alton A. Lindsey, Damian V.
                    Schmelz, and Stanley A. Nichols. The Report of the Indiana Natural Areas Survey. Directed by A. A.
                    Lindsey. Reprint. (
                        Notre Dame
                    : American Midland Naturalist, Department of Biology, University of 
                        Notre Dame
                    , 1970. Pp. xi, 594. Notes, illustrations, tables, appendices, index. $5.50.)
                    The initial limited printing- of this very timely and most "relevant" volume which
                    appeared in 1969 was exhausted even before some interested individuals learned of its publication.
                    The University of 
                        Notre Dame
                     merits commendation for this early reprint edition. The volume was fully reviewed in
                    the Indiana Magazine of History, LXV (December, 1969), 329-30.
            
               Men and Measures of Half a Century: Sketches and Comments. By Hugh McCulloch.
                    Reprint. The American Scene: Comments and Commentators. Edited by Wallace D.
                    Farnham. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1970. Pp. xxv, 542. Index. $18.50.) These sketches and
                    comments by McCulloch concerning men and measures for the half century preceding the 1880s are
                    informative and perceptive. A native of 
                        New England
                    , McCulloch located at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana, in 1833. After being much involved in banking within Indiana, he played a
                    large role in organizing the national banking system during the Civil War and later served as
                    secretary of the treasury under Abraham Lincoln, Andrew Johnson, and James A. Garfield. This volume
                    gives major attention to topics regarding banking and federal finances, but much is also said about
                    political, cultural, and social matters. Though a Republican, McCulloch was a vigorous critic of his
                    party's high tariff following the Civil War. Here is a volume which merits augmented
                    attention by students of both Indiana and national history.
            
               The Corydon Presbyterian Church through 150 Years (Oldest Continuous Church in Corydon),
                        1819-1969: "The Church of the Governor." By Frederick Porter Griffin.
                    (Mentone, Ind.: Superior Printing Co., 1969. Pp. 56. Illustrations. Pamphlet.) This
                    sesqui-centennial sketch of the Corydon Presbyterian Church mainly centers on its history through
                    the decades since its founding. The sketch also offers comments about men and events connected with
                    the beginnings of Indiana as a state and the genesis of Presbyterianism in the new commonwealth. For
                    instance, the Reverend John Finley Crowe, later the leading person in the establishment of 
                        Hanover
                     College, founded the Corydon Presbyterian Church.
            
               To Holland and to 
                            New Harmony
                        : Robert Dale Owen's Travel
                    
                    Journal, 1825-1826. Edited by Josephine M. Elliott. Indiana
                        Historical Society Publications, Volume 23, Number 4. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1969. Pp. 122. Illustrations, appendix, notes, index.
                    Paperbound, $2.00.) Mrs. Eliott has added an item of interest and value to persons
                    interested in the founding of the Owenite community at 
                        New Harmony
                     in the 1820s. It covers a trip which Robert Dale Owen made to Holland in 1825 to study
                    Dutch cooperative communities, then gives an account of his coming to 
                        New Harmony
                     with his father in 1825-1826. This modest volume is quite helpful in conveying and
                    interpreting the ideas and enthusiasm with which Robert Owen and his son, Robert Dale, approached 
                        New Harmony
                     to plant the seed for a new society in the New World.
            
               Robert Owen in the 
                            United States
                        . By Oakley C. Johnson. Foreword by A. L. Morton. AIMS Historical
                        Series No. 6. (
                        New York
                    : Humanities Press for the American Institute for Marxist Studies, 1970. Pp. xii, 86.
                    Illustrations, notes, working bibliography, index. $3.50.) The bicentennial of Robert
                    Owen's birth, being celebrated in 1971, has stimulated renewed interest in the founder of
                    the Owenite cooperative community at 
                        New Harmony
                     in the 1820s. The principal contribution of this volume is that it makes conveniently
                    available Owen's two messages to Congress early in 1825 and his Fourth of July address at 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1826. In his congressional addresses Owen discussed his plans for his new society
                    which was to be launched on the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    . On the Fourth of July he stressed the need for acquiring mental liberty as the
                    greatest of all blessings. The commentary about Owen and his addresses, however, should be examined
                    with care since Johnson is at times overzealous in his interpretations. For instance, it may well be
                    that William E. Wilson's presentation of Owen's views concerning slavery and his
                    attitudes toward Negroes is vulnerable, but, if so, Johnson's rebuttal is lame and
                    inadequate to support his contrary views (pp. 12-13).
            
               Sesquicentennial Scrapbook. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Bob Ball Co., Inc., Printer, for Indiana Yearly Meeting, Religious Society of Friends,
                    1970. Pp. [62]. Illustrations. Pamphlet, $2.00.) This Sesquicentennial
                        Scrapbook is a popular sketch which is mainly concerned with Quakers belonging to the
                    Hicksite or General Conference Friends connected with the Indiana Yearly Meeting of the Religious
                    Society of Friends. Profusely illustrated, it presents a sympathetic review of 
                        Quaker
                     achievements but emphasizes the contributions of those which developed from the
                    Hicksite schism commencing in the 1820s. Copies are available from Indiana Yearly Meeting, 4848
                    North 
                  Illinois, Indianapolis
               , Indiana 46208.
            
            
               Our Special Heritage: Sesquicentennial History of Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends
                        (Quakers), 1821-1971. By Richard P. Ratcliff. (
                        New Castle
                    , Ind.: Community Printing Company, 1970. Pp. 165. Illustrations. $3.95.) Our Special Heritage is a popular sketch concerning the history of Quakers
                    associated with the Indiana Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends since its
                    organization in 1821. It has profuse illustrations and presents a sympathetic review of the
                    development of a religious minority whose achievements and contributions have considerably exceeded
                    what might normally have been anticipated from its limited numbers.
            
               The Spanish-American Frontier: 1783-1795. The Westward Movement and the Spanish Retreat
                        in the Mississippi Valley. By Arthur Preston Whitaker. Introduction by
                    Samuel Eliot Morison. Reprint. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1969. Pp. viii, 255. Maps, notes, index. Paperbound, $1.95.) In
                    Whitaker's volume, originally published in 1927, the influence of the frontier of the Old
                    Southwest "on the formal diplomacy between 
                        Spain
                     and the 
                        United States
                     has been clearly brought out; and the significance of it, as a conflict between two
                    different civilizations, adequately appreciated" (Introduction). Based primarily on
                    exhaustive research in the Spanish archives, the book covers the twelve years of intrigue and
                    diplomacy, culminating in the Treaty of San Lorenzo in 1795, which cleared the way for American
                    advance to the 
                        Mississippi
                     in the Old Southwest. The republication of this study in paperback is welcome. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Fenian Movement. By Mabel Gregory Walker. (
                        Colorado
                     Springs: Ralph Myles Publisher, Inc., 1969. Pp. ix, 215. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $5.95; paperbound, $2.95.) According to the author the
                    "purpose of this book is to shed light on a neglected phase of American history by setting
                    forth the conditions under which it was possible for immigrants from 
                        Ireland
                     to organize the Fenian Brotherhood in the 1850's with the avowed intention of
                    promoting the independence of their home land" (p. vii). Despite neutrality laws Fenians in
                    the 
                        United States
                     from the middle 1850s until the late 1860s sent money, arms, and military officers to
                    promote revolution in 
                        Ireland
                    . Their activities also included an attempt to seize a part of 
                        Canada
                     as a home for the Irish Republic which was declared in 1863 but lacked a territorial
                    base. A number of Indiana's comparatively large Irish immigrant population apparently
                    participated in the Fenian Brotherhood. In 1861 Father O'Flaherty of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     "was said to be … the most influential Fenian in the
                    state" (p. 20), and Walker notes several other instances of Fenianism  which involved Hoosiers or the Hoosier State. This is a scholarly, yet
                    interesting, account of an almost unknown segment of American history. Lorna Lutes
                        Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               
                  
                            Israel
                        , Elihu and Cadwallader Washburn: A Chapter in American Biography. Compiled by
                    Gaillard Hunt. Reprint. The American Scene: Comments and Commentators. Edited by
                    Wallace D. Farn-ham. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1969. Pp. vi, 397. Illustrations, notes. $17.50.)
                    "A family to show a Secretary of State, two ministers abroad, a senator, a major general,
                    three authors, two governors and four representatives in Congress distributed among five brothers,
                    gives proof of a power of success above other families" (p. 5). Actually there were seven
                    Washburn brothers, all born at The Norlands, 
                        Livermore
                    , 
                        Maine
                    . This volume provides a biographical commentary on and selected correspondence of three
                    brothers: 
                        Israel
                    , who remained in 
                        Maine
                    ; Elihu, who settled in 
                        Illinois
                    ; and Cadwallader, who moved to 
                        Wisconsin
                    . All three were successful politicians; one in addition was a military man. All three
                    became wealthy, and all were influential contributors to the society in which they lived. Originally
                    published in 1925, Hunt's volume leaves much to be desired in the way of editing. Footnotes
                    are sparse, locations of letters are not given, editing procedure is not explained. But the three
                    brothers, their continuing devotion to family and birthplace, their active interest and
                    participation in national and state affairs, and their importance to American history are vividly
                    revealed. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               More Landmarks of 
                            Tennessee
                         History. Edited by Robert M. McBride. (
                        Nashville
                    : 
                        Tennessee
                     Historical Society and 
                        Tennessee
                     Historical Commission, 1969. Pp. viii, 393. End maps, illustrations, notes, index.
                    $6.50.) The second of two volumes describing various historical sites in 
                        Tennessee
                    , this book includes nineteen articles originally published in the 
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Historical Quarterly. Subjects range from Rocky Mount in eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    , the oldest territorial capitol still standing in the 
                        United States
                    , to the Fontaine House of the James Lee Memorial in Memphis. Also included are the
                    governors' mansions of 
                        Tennessee
                    , the Casey Jones Railroad Museum, and perhaps particularly interesting to Hoosiers who
                    are proud of their own covered bridges, a chapter on "
                        Tennessee
                    's Covered Bridges– Past and Present." This volume is
                    beautifully illustrated, interesting, and informative; hopefully it will encourage citizens of
                    Indiana and of other states similarly to memorialize their own historical heritage. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               Camp-Fire and Cotton-Field: Southern Adventure in Time of War; Life with the 
                            Union
                         Armies and Residence on a 
                            Louisiana
                         Plantation. By Thomas W. Knox. Reprint. The American Scene:
                        Comments and Commentators. Edited by Wallace D. Farnham. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1969. Pp.524. Illustrations. $17.50.) Written by a
                    correspondent for the 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald and published originally in 1865, this book was "prepared from
                    materials gathered during the Campaigns … [of the Civil War], and from the
                    writer's personal recollections" (Preface). Knox comments on varied topics, from
                    battles–mostly in the western theatre–to northern and southern sentiment
                    concerning the war. He covers many important non-military aspects of the conflict: the attitudes and
                    influence of southern women, characteristics of the Negroes, the journalists' role in the
                    war, Indians and trappers in the Northwest, the Mississippi River and its
                    peculiarities. Knox also leased a southern cotton plantation in one of the occupied areas, a
                    practice frequently employed to produce cotton and to care for Negroes crowding into northern lines,
                    and he records his reactions to this unique experience. Written in a nineteenth century journalistic
                    style, Camp-Fire and Cotton-Field contributes little to specific knowledge of the
                    Civil War. It does, however, provide interesting sidelights on people and incidents during the
                    conflict–not the least interesting of which concern Knox himself. Lorna
                        Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               A Preliminary Guide to Church Records Repositories. Compiled by Aug. R. Suelf low. ([
                        St. Louis
                    ]: Church Archives Committee, Society of American Archivists, 1969. Pp. Ill, 108.
                    Pamphlet, $2.00.) This guide offers varying amounts of information about the location and
                    availability of church records in more than five hundred depositories throughout the 
                        United States
                    . The depositories include material concerning a number of Protestant denominations, as
                    well as Jewish, Roman Catholic, and other religious groups. This book should stimulate further
                    needed study of religious history. Copies are available (plus postage) from Dr. A. K. Johnson, P. 0.
                    Box 7993, 
                  Atlanta, Georgia
                30309.
            
               Roxy. By Edward Eggleston. Reprint. Americans in Fiction Series.
                    (Ridgewood, N. J.: The Gregg Press, 1968. Pp. viii, 432. Illustrations. $10.00.) The Mystery of Metropolisville. By Edward Eggleston. Reprint. (Upper
                        Saddle River, N. J.: Literature House/Gregg Press, 1970. Pp. 320.
                    Illustrations. $13.00.) These two works were published by Eggleston in 1873 and 1878
                    respectively. In the preface to The Mystery of Metropolisville Eggleston states
                    his belief that the purpose of his fiction is "as a contribution to the history  of civilization in 
                        America
                    " (p. 7). For present day readers Eggleston's value resides in the
                    fact that he attained his goal and "portrayed correctly certain forms of American life and
                    manners" (Mystery of Metropolisville, p. 7). Roxy
                    belongs to a series of the Gregg Press conceived to make available such nineteenth century works of
                    fiction "important to the study of American folklore, culture and literary
                    history" (endpaper). Both of these Eggleston novels portray the Midwest: Roxy is a realistic treatment of frontier life in Indiana; The Mystery of
                        Metropolisville is more of a melodrama set in 
                        Minnesota
                    . An 1884 edition of Mystery by Charles Scrib-ner's is used
                    for this reprint, but there is no explanation or publication history to explain the selection. With
                        Roxy it is not clear what edition has been used. Both works are presumably
                    photographically reproduced and retain the original illustrations, interesting and typical of
                    nineteenth and early twentieth century publications. The ready availability of out of print works
                    makes such reprints a worthwhile contribution to the general and educational book markets. Pamela J. Bennett, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               
                        Books Received
                    
               
                  Catalog of Indiana Folk Music and Folklore. (
                            Bloomington
                        : Archives of Traditional Music, Folklore Institute, Indiana University, 1970. Pp.
                        6. Pamphlet, free.)
               
                  Farmers' Organizations and Movements: Research Needs and a Bibliography
                            of the 
                                United States
                             and 
                                Canada
                            . Edited by Denton E. Morrison. North Central Regional Research Publication
                        No. 200. ([East Lansing]: Agricultural Experiment Station, Research Bulletin 24, 
                            Michigan
                         State University, 1970. Pp. 116. Notes, indices. Pamphlet.)
               
                  Prelude to Greatness: Lincoln in the 1850's. By Don E.
                        Fehrenbacher. (
                            Stanford
                        : 
                            Stanford
                         University Press, 1962; paperback, 1970. Pp. ix, 205. Notes, bibliographical note,
                        index. Clothbound, $6.50; paperbound, $2.75.)
               
                  Records of the Socialist Labor Party of America: Guide to a Microfilm
                        Edition. Edited by F. Gerald Ham. Guides to Historical Resources. (
                            Madison
                        : The State Historical Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , 1970. Pp. 28. Pamphlet, $1.00.)
               
                  The Creation of the Presidency, 1775-1789: A Study in Constitutional
                        History. By Charles C. Thach, Jr. Introduction by Herbert J. Storing. Second printing. (
                            Baltimore
                        : The Johns Hopkins Press,  1969. Pp. xii, 182.
                        Notes, index. Clothbound, $6.00; paperbound, $1.95.)
               
                  
                     
                                Chicago
                             History: The Magazine of the 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society. Edited by David Lasswell. Vol. I, No. 1, New series. (
                            Chicago
                        : 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society, 
                            Spring
                        , 1970. Pp. 63. Illustrations. Magazine.)
               
                  Reminiscences of the Civil War and Reconstruction. By Mary Logan. Edited
                        with an Introduction by George Washington Adams. Abridged. (Carbondale: Southern 
                            Illinois
                         Press, 1970. Pp. xi, 324. Illustrations, notes, index. $10.00.)
               
                  Naval Documents of the American Revolution. Volume IV. Edited by William
                        Bell Clark. (
                            Washington
                        : Navy Department, 1969. Pp. xxxi, 1580. End maps, illustrations, notes, charts,
                        appendices, bibliography, index. $14.25.)
               
                  Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships. Volume IV. (
                            Washington
                        : Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Naval History Division, Navy Department,
                        1969. Pp. xxvi, 745. Maps, illustrations, appendices, bibliography. $7.50.)
               
                  Riverine Warfare: The U.S. Navy's Operations on Inland Waters.
                        Revised. (
                            Washington
                        : Naval History Division, Navy Department, 1969. Pp. 59. Illustrations. Pamphlet,
                        $.65.)
               
                  The 
                                United States
                             Navy. (
                            Washington
                        : Naval History Division, Navy Department, 1969. Pp. 40. Illustrations. Pamphlet,
                        $.45.)
               
                  American & British Genealogy & Heraldry: A Selected List of
                            Books. Compiled by P. William Filby. ([
                            Chicago
                        ]: American Library Association, 1970. Pp. xix, 184. Index. $10.00.)
               
                  International Heraldry. By L. G. Pine. (Rutland, Vt.: Charles E. Tuttle
                        Company, 1970. Pp. 244. Notes, illustrations, glossary, index. $6.00.)
               
                  Armorial Families: A Directory of Gentlemen of Coat-Armour. Compiled and
                        edited by Arthur Charles Fox-Davies. Second edition. Two volumes. (Rutland, Vt: Charles E.
                        Tuttle Company, 1970. Pp. xl, v, 2191. Notes, illustrations, appendix, indices.
                        $35.00.)
            
         
         
         
            Research Requests
            The recently organized Hendricks County Historical Society is interested in receiving any documents
                    related to either Central Normal or Canterbury colleges. Such contributions would be cataloged and
                    kept in the Danville Public Library. The Society hopes to develop a permanent collection of related
                    institutional materials, and the library would provide a secure centralized location for them.
                    Inquiries and materials should be addressed to Miss Ina B. Shaw, Librarian, Danville Public Library,
                    Danville, Indiana 46122.
            Walden S. Freeman, associate professor of history at William Woods College, is doing research on the
                    political activities of Will H. Hays, 
                        Sullivan County
                     Republican leader, chairman of the Indiana State Republican Central Committee
                    (1914-1918), chairman of the Indiana State Council of Defense (1917-1918), chairman of the
                    Republican National Committee (1918-1921), and Postmaster General (1921-1922). From 1922 through the
                    1940s, Hays was best known for his work as president of the Motion Picture Producers and
                    Distributors of America (the "Hays Office"), but he continued to participate in
                    political activities in an informal way. Freeman's primary concern is Hays'
                    interest in international organization: the League of Nations, the United Nations, and international
                    religious and motion picture associations. Information on all aspects of Hays' life prior
                    to 1919 is also desired inasmuch as the Hays Papers in the Indiana State Library are far from
                    complete for this period. Please address all correspondence to Walden S. Freeman, Department of
                    History, William Woods College, 
                  Fulton, Missouri
                65251.
            Material is being sought for a book on Ernie Pyle. Biographical information should be sent to Bob
                    Chick, 3310 Woodburn Village Drive, Apt. 33, 
                        Annandale
                    , 
                        Virginia
                     22003. Information about Pyle's family lineage should be sent to Mrs. Mary E.
                    Studebaker, 781 West Drive, Woodruff Place, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46201.
         
      
   
