
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 6, Issue 4, pages 137-191. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:6+issue:4+year:1910&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            DUTY OF THE STATE TO ITS HISTORY.
            
               BY JACOB PIATT DUNN.
            [A paper read before the Indiana Historical Society and the Civic Improvement
                    Committee of the Commercial Club of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 9, 1910.]
            TACITUS said, "This I hold to be the chief office of history, to rescue
                    virtuous actions from the oblivion to which a want of records would consign
                    them, and that men should feel a dread of being considered infamous in the
                    opinions of posterity from their depraved expressions and base
                    actions."
            Tacitus lived in a day of absolute monarchy, when the all-important thing for
                    good government was to have a good ruler, and a king or an emperor who was
                    reasonably decent was hailed as a blessing to the commonwealth. It was indeed
                    desirable that the ruler should be inspired by the belief that his good deeds
                    would be recorded, and praised by future generations, and that his evil deeds
                    would be held in execration. In reality, the expression of Tacitus is equivalent
                    to a declaration that the chief use of history is to promote good government,
                    which was true at his time, and is equally true now, but in a different way. We
                    have passed, to a large extent, from the era of monarchical rule, and have come
                    to a period when the people make such provision for their own rule as they deem
                    desirable. Of necessity, this course is largely experimental. Many measures are
                    tried that are failures, and many produce results that are not anticipated. Now,
                    history in our times is the record of progress in civilization and government.
                    It is the record of the experience of the state, and a state should profit by
                    its experience just as an individual does. But there is this difference: An
                    individual carries the memory of his experience with him, while the governing
                    powers of a state are frequently changed, and the experience of one generation
                         is lost to following ones, unless it be
                    recorded in some permanent way.
            This use of history, especially in this country of ours, I take to be the chief
                    use, but it by no means excludes other uses. Even the use regarded as most
                    important by Tacitus still remains. It is important that our
                    officials should understand that their acts will be recorded, both the good and
                    the bad, and that they will go down to posterity with the records they have
                    made; for good rulers and bad rulers are still efficient to promote or retard
                    the welfare of the public, although they are elected as public servants, and for
                    comparatively short terms. It is. also important that each rising generation
                    should know what its predecessors did, in order to hand down the goodly heritage
                    of civilization and government that comes to their hands. It is important that
                    each generation should realize that it is but—
            "A link among the years to knit The generations each to
                    each."
            It is important that each generation should know of the steps by which their
                    ancestors developed the arts and sciences and industries which have become a
                    part of their daily lives and the means of their livelihood. But principally, at
                    present, I would call your attention to the governmental uses of history, for
                    therein the duty of the state is most obvious and most convincing.
            It is most singular how fully the average official feels the importance of
                    preserving his own official record, and how little he feels it as to the records
                    of others. I venture the assertion that no one here ever knew an executive
                    official who did not feel that his own reports should be published and carefully
                    preserved; no one here ever knew a member of a legislative body who did not feel
                    that the record of that body ought to be published and preserved. And yet, when
                    it came to the application of the Golden Rule as to the records of others, how
                    different the feeling. The Legislature of Indiana very early provided for the
                    circulation of the laws and the legislative journals, and it contemplated their
                    preservation. When the township library system was instituted it provided for
                    copies for each library, but subsequent Legislatures let the township libraries
                    die, and  the county officials, as a rule,
                    took no care of the copies sent to the counties. As a result of this, when the
                    historical revival began in this State, some twenty-five years ago, the State
                    itself did not own complete sets of its own laws, or House, Senate and
                    Documentary Journals.
            Judge D. W. Howe was the pioneer in the work of rehabilitation. His attention was
                    first called to the laws, and he aided in preparing the republication, in 1886,
                    of the territorial laws from 1801 to 1806, including the laws of the Governor
                    and Judges and of the first and second sessions of the Territorial Legislature.
                    At that time the only known printed copy of the laws of the Governor and Judges
                    was owned by Hon. John Stotsenburg, of 
                        New Albany
                    , and the only known copy of the laws of the second session of the
                    Legislature was owned by the 
                        Massachusetts
                     State Library. In the same year the Indiana Historical Society was
                    revived and reorganized, and Judge Howe's "Laws and Courts of
                    the Northwést and Indiana Territories" was its first
                    publication. He next turned his attention to the Senate, House and Documentary
                    Journals, and in 1890 published his invaluable "Descriptive Catalogue
                    of the Official Publications of the Territory and State of Indiana,"
                    which first gave the public a reliable list of these publications. When Mrs.
                    Scott was State Librarian, the writer made a special effort to fill the sets of
                    these publications, and went to the county seats of thirty-eight counties in the
                    attempt to get full sets of the Senate, House and Documentary Journals for the
                    State Library, the City Library and the Indiana Historical Society. The
                    Documentary Journals, which began in 1835, were secured, but some of the early
                    Senate and House Journals are still lacking. But the effort to build up the
                    State Library as a local historical library has been kept up ever since,
                    especially under Mr. Henry and Professor Brown; and we now have a very
                    creditable collection of local historical material.
            But to return to documents. The city of 
                        Indianapolis
                     has been publishing its Council Proceedings since 1863, and yet it
                    was only by extended effort that I succeeded in making up a set of them for the
                    State Library, and all but one for the City Library. When Mr. George Merrill
                    removed to 
                        California
                    , his copy of the missing volume was given to the City Library, and
                    its set was made full.
            
            One of the most potent causes of this disappearance of documents is the lack of a
                    place to keep them. You would suppose there was room in our court-house, and
                    there is, with proper care; but a large part of the original records of this
                    county are bundled into what is called "the bum room," in
                    hopeless confusion, and so covered with soot and dust that it takes a bold man
                    to look for anything. When John R. Wilson was clerk he got some shelving put in,
                    and put them in order, but since then they have again fallen into a disgraceful
                    state. The usual condition in the court-houses of the State is as bad or worse.
                    You would think there would be room in our State House, but it is very much
                    overcrowded, and there are quantities of original papers piled in the basement
                    in hopeless confusion; while the State Library is badly crowded, after utilizing
                    all available space, and especially in its storage facilities. In fact, this has
                    been the case as to the latter for a number of years past. When I was State
                    Librarian I was also engaged in an effort to revive the township libraries. When
                    they were started, provision was made for supplying each of them with the laws
                    and journals. After they had gone to pieces the same number of documents
                    continued to be printed, but everybody had forgotten what they were for, and the
                    most of them usually went for waste paper. I decided to keep them for the
                    township libraries when they should be restored, and had them boxed and stored
                    in the basement. In the course of years they filled the room, and imagine my
                    astonishment on learning that State Librarian Henry had got a law passed
                    authorizing him to retain one hundred copies of each and dispose of the rest,
                    and the great mass of them had gone to the paper mills. In passing, I would
                    mention that the chief cause of the destruction of the township libraries was
                    the lack of places to keep them. They were simply put in custody of the township
                    trustee, and he put them in his cellar or his barn or anywhere else that was
                    convenient, and, as a rule, they received about as much care as would be given
                    to an orphan apprentice. This is one part of our history that we are now
                    profiting by, and the libraries that have been started in the last dozen years
                    are supplied with permanent and usually adequate buildings, at least for the
                    time being.
            Fortunately, we are arriving at a period in this country when there is some
                    appreciation of the importance of profiting by experience in  legislation, and history is simply the record of
                    experience—or the truth of exderience unrecorded. As Carlyle puts it,
                    "History is the wisdom of events." There is no more notable
                    example of profiting by experience than the Common Law, for it is in fact a
                    crystallization of experience—of customs developed by experience, and
                    gradually added to by judges, without the delay of law-making, as new cases
                    arose that called for the development of existing principles. It is true that
                    the reasons of some of its rules have almost been lost in the haze of antiquity,
                    and the reasons for some of them may have wholly disappeared in the changes of a
                    developing civilization, but it is safe to assume that all of them were based on
                    sound reason at the time of their adoption, and that the reason was founded in
                    experience. But of statutory law there is a vast amount that is founded on
                    neither experience nor reason; and there is no valid excuse for it. In this
                    country the several States are so similar that the experience of one is
                    practically the experience of all, and yet there have been numerous examples of
                    foolish laws enacted in one State, tried and found failures; and then the same
                    laws enacted in other States. with the same results, and sometimes actually
                    re-enacted in the same State. Fourteen years ago, at the supper for the American
                    Economic Association, in this building, I urged the imDortance of a more careful
                    study of comparative legislation, especially in preparation for economic
                    measures; and the most encouraging feature of legislative work to-day is the
                    movement in that direction. 
                        New York
                     led off with the compilation and publication of a digest of the
                    current legislation of all the States; and this has been followed by the
                    institution of legislative reference departments in a number of the State
                    libraries, whose special function is to supply legislators with all sorts of
                    information concerning desired measures. Young as it is, I believe it is safe to
                    say that the most important branch of legislative work in this country to-day is
                    this legislative reference work. It is preventing more hasty and ill-advised
                    legislation than any one agency I know of, by furnishing legislators with the
                    available records of experience and the best thought on various subjects.
            There is, however, one weak spot in it. However competent a reference librarian
                    may be, he can not know everything; and when entirely new legislation comes up
                    he usually lacks material for it, because 
                    the real material is in a broader field of history than he deals with. The
                    English are in a much better condition as to new legislation than we are,
                    because, as an incident of cabinet government, whenever the administration
                    desires to introduce a reform measure, it appoints a commission to study and
                    investigate the question, and to learn, if possible, the real causes of the evil
                    desired to be remedied. And in this it does not, as is usually done in this
                    country, appoint a commission of partisans whose minds are made up to begin
                    with, and who devote their efforts to bolstering up their preconceived ideas. It
                    appoints men of differing views, who take evidence on all sides and try to get
                    at the actual facts. The results of this are almost startling. I know of no more
                    useful book on legislation than Richardson's "The Health of
                    Nations," which is practically a summarization of the life and writings
                    of Edwin Chadwick—the man who served on more of these British
                    commissions than any other man, and who attained a reputation for legislative
                    wisdom without precedent. In regard to this commission work, Mr. Chadwick makes
                    the astounding statement (p. 127) that he never knew any one investigation
                    "which did not reverse every main principle, and almost every assumed
                    chief elementary fact, on which the general public, parliamentary committees,
                    politicians of high position, and often the commissioners themselves, were
                    prepared to base legislation."
            This seems almost incredible, but the reason of it is simple when you reflect on
                    it. For any evil there is usually suggested to most men some simple and seeming
                    obvious remedy; but when you come to a chronic evil it is practically certain
                    that there is no simple and obvious remedy for it, because if there were it
                    would have been applied long ago. Such evils are like diseases of the blood,
                    which the ignorant seek to cure by applying salves and lotions to the skin, but
                    which still remain till wise men seek out the causes of the disease and devise
                    the "606" that cures them by removing the causes.
            Now, what was it that these English commissions learned by their investigations?
                    Simply the facts—the actual experience of the public—the
                    history of the evil. It is just like a physician diagnosing a case, in which he
                    acquaints himself with the personal history of his patient for a greater or less
                    period, in order to account for the symptoms then presenting themselves. If you
                    want intelligent legislation  you must first
                    find out just what is wrong, and then devise the remedy for the; wrong.
            In conclusion, we come back to the axiomatic principle—or principle
                    which should be axiomatic—that a state that does not profit by its
                    own experience is as foolish as an individual who does not profit by his own
                    experience; and a state can not possibly profit fully by its experience unless
                    it provides for handing it down from one generation to another by the
                    preservation of its history.
         
         
         
            THE FIRST INDIANA BANKS.
            
               BY LOGAN ESARY, 
                            Winona
                         College.
            THERE was very little specie or paper in circulation in Indiana before its
                    admission in 1816. The period from 1807 to 1816 was the worst era in our history
                    for wildcat banking. So great was the prejudice of the Western Democrats against
                    a national bank, however, that they would rather endure all the evils of a
                    private bank system than see a national currency circulated by one strong bank.
                    Paper money at this time ranged in value all the way from the notes of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     banks, worth 20 per cent. above national treasury notes, to the
                    counterfeits that deluged the country.
            A Western bank in these early days was a very simple affair. Any man inclined to
                    start a bank hired an engraving company to print him a few thousand bills, and
                    then opened an ofice in some convenient town. Since these banks rarely received
                    deposits and only served the one function, a place to discount notes, they were
                    opened usually one day in the week or two half days—either all day on
                    Saturday, or Tuesday and Saturday afternoons. If business prospered and the
                    banker floated much of his money at a fair price, he remained. If the situation
                    did not prove favorable, he packed his capital in his grip and sought a more
                    favorable spot. This might be called the Nomadic Age of banking. The earliest
                    Indiana banks, at 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        New Harmony
                    , were of this kind.
            However, the Territorial Legislature, sitting at Corydon, in the summer of 1814
                    chartered two banks. [Acts of Indiana Territory, 1814, p. 95.1 On Monday, August
                    21, 1814, William Polk, representing 
                        Knox county
                    , laid before the House a petition, signed by Nathaniel Ewing and
                    others, praying for a charter to establish a bank at 
                        Vincennes
                    . The petition was read and referred to a committee of
                    three—Polk, Ferris and Clark. On the same afternoon Mr. Polk reported
                    a bill for a bank. This was read the first time that same evening, and the
                    second time next day, Tuesday. It was at once referred to a committee of the
                    whole, and made the order of the day for Wednesday. On Thursday amendments were
                    called  for, and on Friday it was placed on
                    its passage. [See MSS. of record of Territoiial Legislature in office of
                    Secretary of State, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .] Three days after this bill was introduced, Mr. Brown asked the
                    Legislature to charter a similar bank for 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. This bank was to be known as the Farmers' and
                    Mechanics' Bank of 
                        Madison
                    . These two charters were alike, were to run twenty years, and by
                    special amendment the banks were not to dissolve until they had redeemed all
                    their notes and paid all their debts. The incorporators further agreed to wind
                    up their affairs at once after the expiration of their charter.
            Though these two territorial banks started under like charters and similar
                    circumstances, their later careers were very unlike. The Farmers' and
                    Mechanics' Bank, at 
                        Madison
                    , was organized by John Paul, John Ritchie, Christopher Harrison,
                    Henry Ristine, N. Hurst and D. Blackmore. John Paul was chosen president and
                    John Sering cashier. The charter was signed by William Hendricks, speaker, and
                    Jesse L. Holman, president of the council. The bank had the right under its
                    charter to issue notes payable on demand in silver or gold. The capital stock
                    was not to exceed $750,000. The territorial government reserved the
                    right to locate a branch bank at 
                        Vincennes
                    , with a capital of $125,000, one-half of which the
                    Territory might subscribe. The bank agreed to loan the government
                    $5,000 to pay officers' salaries, and to advance any sum the
                    territorial government might need in anticipation of taxes. The rate of interest
                    was not to exceed 6 per cent. on any money lent by the bank.
            The town of 
                        Madison
                     was small at this time, not having over seven or eight hundred
                    inhabitants. The trade was correspondingly limited, the stores handling such
                    goods as are usually kept in large country stores. For the purpose of making
                    change and aiding in exchange generally, all merchants issued
                    "shinplasters" of the denomination of 50, 25, 12 1/2 and 6 1/4
                    cents. These were redeemed in banknotes of the Commonwealth Bank of 
                        Kentucky
                    , if presented at the Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank
                    in sums of $1.00 or more. The bank furnished valuable aid to the
                    farmers of 
                        Jefferson
                     and adjoining counties in making payments on their land.
            The 
                        Madison
                     Bank used the old brick building, standing on the east side of Main
                    street, pretty well up from the river. [Elvin's Scrap Book, p. 68,
                    copied from 
                  
                            Madison
                         Free Press.] Its notes  were received at the 
                        United States
                     government Land Office for many years, and were rated highest of
                    all in the Northwest except notes of the Commonwealth Bank of 
                        Kentucky
                    , until notes of the second 
                        United States
                     Bank came into circulation.
            The bank had a branch at 
                        Lexington
                    , in 
                        Scott county
                    , which was a town then almost as large as 
                        Madison
                    . The 
                        Madison
                     Eank was closed in 1822 or 1823 by J. F. D. Lanier and 
                        Milton
                     Stapp, after meeting in an honorable way all its obligations and
                    fulfilling all the conditions of its charter.
            By the time Indiana became a State there were several banks in it. It was thought
                    undemocratic to limit banks in any way by law, yet in a law of 1815 some
                    restrictions were made. [Samuel Judah, Report on Private Banks, H. R. Journal,
                    1839.] This measure is entitled "An Act to Prevent Swindling."
                    It required banks to publish the names of stockholders rather than just the firm
                    name. The law was intended for a banking firm operating at 
                        New Lexington
                     and thought to be swindlers. Another private bank, in which Noah
                    Noble and other members of the Legislature were interested, was located at 
                        Brookville
                    . The Steam Mill Company, Judge Benjamin Parke, president, at 
                        Vincennes
                    , also was a bank of issue.
            The State constitution recognized both the 
                        Vincennes
                     and the 
                        Madison
                     banks. A later law, passed January 1, 1817, at the first session of
                    the State Legislature, elaborated the 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank into a State institution, to have fourteen branches scattered
                    over the State. [Laws of Indiana, 1816-'17, p. 175.] Neither the
                    article in the State constitution nor the act of January 1, 1817, gave the bank
                    any new powers. They only recognized its charter and increased its capital
                    stock. There was no limit to its power to issue paper money placed in the
                    charter. One of the main objects of the institution, though, was to make a
                    prdfit by issuing bank-notes, and the plain design of the whole charter and of
                    several provisions in particular was that it should not issue more paper than it
                    could redeem. Its total debt was not to exceed twice its deposits, and its
                    directors were made liable for such excess in a common-law action for debt. The
                    charter was to last twenty-one years.
            The capital stock of the bank was increased from $500,000 to
                    $1,500,000, of which $375,000 might be subscribed by the
                    State as soon as the Governor thought advisable. The intention of the
                    incorporators  was to acquire a complete
                    monopoly of the banking business of the State. The first branch, with a capital
                    stock of $20,000, was to be organized by Joseph Pegg, Aaron Martin
                    and John Sprow, at 
                        Centerville
                    . The organizing board for the second branch was William H. Eads,
                    Robert John and John Jacobs, and it was to be located at 
                        Brookville
                     and have a capital stock of $35,000. Isaac Dunn, John
                    Gray and David Rees were appointed to open the third branch at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , with a capital stock of $35,000. At Vevay, John
                    Gilliland, Lawrence Nichol and Daniel Dufour were to organize the fourth, with a
                    capital stock of $20,000. David H. Maxwell, John Sering and Alex. A.
                    Meek were selected to open the fifth at 
                        Madison
                    , with $30,000 capital stock. At Charleston, James Scott,
                    Evan Shelby and A. P. Hay were to accept subscriptions of $35,000 for
                    the sixth branch. The seventh was to be situated at Browns-town, under
                    supervision of John Ketchem, Alex. C. Craig and John McCorinick. They were
                    authorized to raise $10,000 for this branch. Paoli was to have the
                    eighth branch, with $10,000 capital stock. The Legislature intrusted
                    its organization to John G. Clendennin, William Lindley and Thomas Fulton.
                    Marston G. Clark, John Lyon and Samuel Craig were to organize the ninth branch
                    at 
                        Salem
                    , with $30,000 stock. Corydon had the tenth, with
                    $35,000 capital stock, in the hands of Allen D. Thom, David Craig and
                    Milo R. Davis. Brownstown, Paoli, Salem and Corydon were in adjoining counties
                    and were only about fifteen miles apart. The eleventh was to be at 
                        Troy
                    , in 
                        Perry county
                    . John Stephenson, Solomon Lamb and Thomas Morton were to organize
                    it, with $10,000 capital stock. At Darlington, then one of the
                    promising towns of the southwestern corner of the State, a branch was to be
                    opened by Daniel Grass, Hugh McGary and Ratliff Boon, with a capital stock of
                    $10,000. Pred Rapp, Thomas E. Castlebury and Thomas Gibson, and
                    William Prince, Robert M. Evans and James Jones were to organize the thirteenth
                    and fourteenth branches in 
                        Posey
                     and 
                        Gibson
                     counties, respectively, each with a capital stock of
                    $10,000.
            Books were to be opened at each place by the board of commissioners on the first
                    day of April, 1817. Each bank was to accommodate three counties, and none but
                    residents of these three counties were to be allowed to subscribe for stock.
                    There would still remain $325,000, which the directors were to place
                    to the best advantage.
            
            All the banks were constituent parts of the parent bank at 
                        Vincennes
                    . Each bank should have eleven directors chosen by the bank and
                    three chosen by the State. A monthly statement was to be made to the Governor
                    and an annual report to the Legislature, showing capital stock, debts, deposits,
                    notes in circulation and specie on hand. Six per cent. was to be the rate of
                    discount. The State might borrow a maximum of $50,000, but no
                    director could borrow over $5,000 or be security for more than
                    $10,000.
            The plan seemed to be comprehensive, but for some reason it did not gain the
                    confidence of the people. It was provided that the Farmers' and
                    Mechanics' Bank of 
                        Madison
                     should become a part of the State Bank, but its officers and
                    stockholders refused. The list of stockholders of the State Bank included enough
                    of the politicians of the State to control the Legislature at any time. They
                    were sure of the patronage of the State, and nearly all of the 
                        United States
                     officers from the State were interested financially, many
                    officially. Stock subscription came in slowly, and all the branches but three
                    failed to organize. The best field for banking in the State was then fully
                    occupied by the Farmers' and blechanics' Bank in 
                        Madison
                    . There was little money in the State. Ninety out of every hundred
                    men were farmers, and intent only on meeting the payments on their homesteads.
                    Banks were of little use in this, since the government gave liberal time to its
                    customers. In some cases, as in the thirteenth and fourteenth districts, there
                    were not even villages in which to establish banks; while 
                        Troy
                    , where Anderson joins the 
                        Ohio
                    ; Darlington, on Pigeon creek; Paoli, Charleston and Browns-town
                    were little, struggling villages, without commercial enterprise of any kind.
                    With scarcely seventy-five thousand people, it was attempted to organize fifteen
                    banks in one day and float among them bank stock, all told, to the amount of
                    $2,225,000, an average of about $30 per capita.
            Branch banks were finally organized at 
                        Brookville
                    , Corydon and 
                        Vevay
                    . From the beginning there was opposition to the system. The leader
                    in this criticism was Elihu Stout, editor of the Western Sun,
                    of 
                        Vincennes
                    . The cause of the bank was as warmly supported by Editor Wiseman,
                    of the Centinel, also of 
                        Vincennes
                    . Wiseman was an officer of the bank, and hence had the better of
                    Stout as far as authentic information was concerned. In general, what was  called the aristocratic party of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Corydon and 
                        Brookville
                     controlled the bank. What later became the Jacksonian Democracy
                    opposed it. [a. H. Smith's Recollections, p. 84.] James Noble, Jonathan
                    Jennings and William Hendricks were the political owners of the State and
                    distributed its offices at will. During two years there was little said about
                    the banks except at election times. [Centinel, June 5 and
                    December 18.] Semi-annual dividends of 8 per cent. on all stocks were paid in
                    1819; the first was declared by the directors in June, the second December 18.
                    The notes of the parent bank were accepted at the 
                        United States
                     Land Office. But opposition was gradually gaining force and
                    assuming definition. It was charged [Western Sun, July 1,
                    1820] that the State, through the aid of the Governor, had been
                    "worked" by the bank for $10,000 in the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     canal affair, by depositing that amount of specie and accepting
                    bank paper; and this at a time when there was not enough cash in the State
                    treasury to pay the State officers.
            At the fourth session of the State Legislature a resolution was offered by
                    General Samuel Milroy, calling for a thorough investigation of the bank, but the
                    resolution failed. [Centinel, July 15, 1820.] Those who
                    opposed the measure were charged with being agents of the bank. One of the
                    Representatives so charged, Thomas H. Blake, representing 
                        Knox county
                    , gave as his reasons for not supporting the measure that this was
                    the duty of the Governor under the law; that the State had lived off the bank
                    and then owed it $30,000, and that the legislators had to depend on
                    the hank for their own pay. He had voted against Representative John H.
                    Thompson's bill requiring the bank to pay specie or forfeit its
                    charter, because no other Western banks were paying specie. However true these
                    reasons may have been, the people continued to complain that the banks made hard
                    times and they refused to re-elect Mr. Blake to the Legislature. The murmuring
                    against banks was heard throughout the Western States as well as in the South
                    and East. [Western Sun, August 19, 1820.] Worse charges than
                    these were appearing against the 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank. Its integrity was being questioned. Nearly all its loans were
                    said to be to its directors and political supporters. Many of these loans were
                    more than questionable from a financial standpoint. [Western
                    Sun, July 28, 1820.] It would not issue any of its own notes, but dealt
                    entirely in those of its shaky branches.
            
            Some of these notes were said to be unsigned, some were time notes, to be paid
                    only after two years from issue. Some were issued outright to the
                    "Steam Mill." These notes were not redeemed anywhere. The best
                    that the holder could do was to exchange them for notes of other branches.
                    Agents of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank were said to be stationed in the towns along the eastern line
                    of the State to exchange these branch bank notes for Eastern paper money or
                    specie. Then, to get money receivable at the land offices, this depreciated
                    paper had to be discounted heavily. The 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank was one of the worst of these note shavers.
            The law required the parent bank to redeem its paper in specie. This it attempted
                    to do in a. novel way. [Western Sun, August 26, 1820.] The
                    report of 1820 shows that the branches had issued notes to the amount of
                    $167,158, while the parent bank had only $13,000 in notes
                    outstanding. These were of large denomination, few under $75, and
                    hence not in circulation. Over half the circulation was issued through the 
                        Brookville
                     branch, and exchanged for specie and Eastern bank paper brought in
                    by the settlers. For this reason every settler became the inevitable enemy of
                    the banks. The 
                        United States
                     land offices ruled the Western banks. There was published weekly a
                    list of banks whose notes were accepted by the agent. The one printed in the Western Sun for October 7, 1820, by the agent, J. C. S.
                    Harrison, is a fair example: All 
                        Boston
                     banks, five Sew York banks, eight 
                        Philadelphia
                     banks, eight 
                        Baltimore
                     banks, 
                        Columbia
                     Bank at 
                        Washington, D. C.
                    , Union Bank of Georgetown, eight other District of Columbia banks,
                    Farmers' and Merchants' Bank of 
                        Madison
                    , Ind., 
                        Vincennes
                     bank-notes over $75.
            The newspapers circulated among a very small number of people, and many a
                    prospective settler saw his resources divided in the middle by the note-shaver
                    when he went to buy land. The 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank was a repository for 
                        United States
                     money, and the receiver of public moneys usually an officer of the
                    bank. [Western Sun, November 4, 1820.1 As soon as the specie
                    was collected it was deposited in the bank and used again to shave branch
                    bank-notes.
            The State election of 1820 was contested on the bank and currency questions.
                    Shall the bank be made to redeem its own notes? Shall shaving go on? [Western Sun, December 16, 1820.1 Few friends of the bank were
                    returned. Over one-third of the members were  new. The new session convened November 27, 1820, and the question of the bark
                    was taken up. In the meantime a letter appeared in the Western
                    Sun stating that the parent bank was on the brink of ruin. Its outstanding
                    debts were given at $230,000, with resources of $105,000.
                    The letter was represented as coming from Corydon, but no one knew the author.
                    All the editor would say was that his information was most reliable. It was
                    known that the government deposits were in specie and would have to be paid
                    first.
            The letter at first caused surprise and then fear. People did not then keep money
                    in bank, as now, so there was not a run on the bank; but they felt uneasy lest
                    the notes of the bank and its branches should become worthless. The value of the
                    notes was in direct proportion to the soundness of the bank. In answer to the
                        Sun's letter the Centinel
                    printed the last report of the cashier of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank. This showed [Centinel, December 23, 1820.]: 
                  
                     Debts owed by the bank
                     $243,898
                  
                  
                     Resources:
                      
                  
                  
                       Individual loans
                     $228,000
                  
                  
                       Specie
                     33,000
                  
                  
                       Currency of other banks
                     26,000
                  
                  
                       Deposited with other banks
                     17,000
                  
                  
                        Total
                     $304,000
                  
               
            
            This showed a balance of $61,000 in the bank's favor. The Sun's article was passed up as political gossip, not
                    worthy of notice unless in court, where the editor should be arraigned for
                    libel.
            Everybody waited with anxiety to see the forthcoming report to the Legislature.
                    In a few days this appeared, but brought little assurance. It showed [Western Sun, December 23, 1820.]: 
                  
                     Notes discounted
                     128,000
                  
                  
                     Loans to individuals
                     29,000
                  
                  
                     Specie
                     33,000
                  
               
            
            Besides a few other small items. On the other side of the account were [Western Sun, January 27, 1821.]: 
                  
                     Notes in circulation
                     $13,000
                  
                  
                     Branch notes in circulation
                     167,000
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    United States
                                 deposits.
                     215,357
                  
               
            
            
            Elias Boudinot was cashier, Nathaniel Ewing president, and Judge Benjamin Parke
                    agent. The report showed the bank to be on the edge of bankruptcy, and before
                    the people could realize it the crash came. On Tuesday, January 2, 1821, the
                    bank suspended specie payment. [Western Sun, January 6, 1821.]
                    Following close on this announcement came a similar one, that the Bank of 
                        Kentucky
                     had failed, with $923,000 on deposit and
                    $1,833,000 notes in circulation. To meet these liabilities it had
                    less than $700,000 in resources.
            Meanwhile Governor Jennings was asked by the Legislature to make personal
                    investigation of the Indiana Bank, but found convenient excises in the rush of
                    business connected with his office, and also on account of the difficulty of
                    travel. [Western Sun, January 20, 1821.] An investigating
                    committee of the Legislature reported that Governor Jennings had placed
                    $5,000 of the 3 per cent. fund intended for the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     canal in the bank at Corydon, and it was probably lost. Otherwise
                    the report was very favorable, so far as the Corydon branch was concerned. Only
                    one fact was suspicious—that Benjamin Parke, 
                        United States
                     circuit judge for the Indiana district, and also agent for the
                    "Steam Mill," had arranged to borrow $10,000 from
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank and credit the loan to the Corydon branch. It seems that when
                    State Treasurer Lane visited 
                        Vincennes
                     in March, 1820, to pay interest on the State's loan, he,
                    Lane, had made arrangements for the loan to the "Steam Mill,"
                    but later denied all knowledge of, or consent to, the deal. At any rate, the
                    parent bank was notified that its custom of issuing notes on the Corydon branch
                    must cease, and that branch at once began to reduce its circulation.
            The Legislature either could not or would not help the situation. [House Journal,
                    1820-'21, p. 16.] On January 6, 1821, it elected Abijah Bayless,
                    Benjamin V. Beckes and Marston G. Clark directors on the part of the State. A
                    committee composed of Enoch D. John, of 
                        Franklin county
                    ; E. Powell, of 
                        Dearborn
                    ; Joseph Holman, of 
                        Wayne
                    ; Samuel Merrill, of 
                        Switzerland
                    , and Charles I. Battell, of 
                        Posey
                    , spent the time of the session in the investigation of banks, but
                    no report was given. [House Journal, 1820-'21, p. 229.] The legislature
                    passed an act placing a 5 per cent. tax on irredeemable currency. A bill making
                    it a crime to falsify bank records failed. [House Journal, 1820–21.1
                    A bill to prohibit issue of irredeemable 
                    currency was lost. A bill empowering the Governor to borrow $1,-800
                    from the bank, to pay interest, was also lost January 2, 1821.
            A notice was posted on the bank door at 
                        Vincennes
                    , on February 3, 1821, calling a meeting of the stockholders for
                    February 5, to examine the bank with a view to protecting depositors and
                    stockholders, and to discuss surrendering its charter. [Western
                    Sun, February 3, 1821.] This notice- was signed by the stockholders, the
                    leading men of the borough:
            Arthur Patterson, G. R. C. Sullivan, John C. Reily, William Burtch, Robert
                    Elliott, G. W. Johnson, S. P. Striker, John McDonald, Daniel McClure, William
                    Polk, Samuel Tomlinson, Charles McClure.
            At the meeting a new board of directors was chosen, as follows [Western Sun, March 24, 1821.]: David Brown, John D. Hay, Arthur
                    Patterson, Nathaniel Ewing, Robert Buntin, Wilson Lagow, Dr. E. McNamee, William
                    Burtch, George Ewing, Samuel Tomlinson, William E. Breading, Fred Rapp. David
                    Brown was made president. A committee of three was selected to examine the bank.
                    This committee was soon discharged, and another—Robert Buntin, Arthur
                    Pattersori and Samuel Tomlinson—appointed in their stead, with notice
                    to make a complete report on the condition of the bank May 5. [Western Sun, March 31, 1821.]
            In the meantime, on the dark and windy night of February 10, the people of 
                        Vincennes
                     were awakened by a light in the north part of town. [Centinel, February 17, 1821.] Some one had set fire to the
                    "Steam Mill," and when morning came the chief source of pride
                    and jealousy in 
                        Vincennes
                     was in ashes.
            The cashier of the bank, E. Boudinot, resigned in May. [Western
                    Sun, June 2, 1821. Centinel, June 2, 1821.] He was
                    succeeded by Valentine Bradley, who served till October, and was succeeded by
                    Samuel Jacobs, the cashier of the 
                        Brookville
                     branch. Jacobs gave up the job at once and was followed by Carter
                    Beamon. The pretended investigation went on from week to week, and the impatient
                    stockholders became more impatient. May 31 they were astonished by the
                    announcement that the directors had voted a 10 per cent. dividend for the last
                    six months on all paid-up stock, and this at a time when the bank was an
                    acknowledged bankrupt. [Western Sun, June 16, 1821.] The
                    sentiment of the people was well expressed by Richard  Daniel at a banquet given in honor of General
                    Harrison, who was then visiting the "Old Post." He proposed
                    this toast: "The State Bank of Indiana, more corruption than
                    money." [Western Swz, June 23, 1821.]
            At the June meeting of the directors, President Brown informed the stockholders
                    that the bank was insolvent. He further reported that the chief cause of the
                    failure of the bank was its close alliance with the "Steam
                    Mill" venture. The promoters of this concern, one of the first of its
                    kind in Indiana, were the officers of the bank, and had embezzled its funds to
                    the amount of $91,000. A committee at once waited on the Steam Mill
                    Company to see if they could pay any part of their debt. Judge Parke promised to
                    turn over all his property to the bank. He owed, he said, only a few other
                    debts. Other members of the Steam Mill Company, and nearly all were stockholders
                    of the bank, gave no assurance. Mr. Parke assured them that if the debt was
                    nearly as much as represented, the Steam Mill Company could never pay it. It was
                    then resolved to close up the affairs of the bank as rapidly as possible. Those
                    owing the bank were allowed to surrender their stock, if they had any, and
                    receive a corresponding credit on their indebtedness; in other words, the
                    worthless stock was cashed at par with other people's money. It was
                    further resolved not to jeopardize business by calling in loans too rapidly, and
                    it was ordered that not more than 12 per cent. be collected annually. The
                    president, Nathaniel Ewing, and cashier, Elias Boudinot, were censured for
                    betraying the bank by drawing false bills of exchange on members of the Steam
                    Mill Company. Lastly, it was agreed to compromise with creditors and thus save
                    the directors from loss.
            This report was first printed in the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Piiblic Adzertiser, and for that reason the failure was known
                    in the eastern part of the State before it was in 
                        Vincennes
                    . [Western Sun, July 28, 1821.]
            The Corydon branch at once took measures to protect itself. A meeting of its
                    officers was called April 27, 1821. D. C. Lane, State treasurer, was president.
                    Joseph Merrill, Davis Floyd, John Tipton, R. C. Boone and Dennis Pennington were
                    some of its directors. They protested against the parent bank issuing any more
                    notes on them. [Western Sun, June 20, 1821.]
            Realizing that the State was involved, Governor Jennings called an  extraordinary session of the Legislature, to meet
                    early in November. [Senate Journal, 1821, pp. 11, 147.1 The State had borrowed
                    $20,-000 from the bank, for which the bank held bonds. Expecting to
                    pay this debt from current revenues, the State had accepted bank-notes in
                    payment of taxes. The Governor was now unable to pay principal or interest, or
                    any other expenses of the State, with the money in the treasury. [Senate
                    Journal, 1821-'22, November 28.1 The 
                        Madison
                     Bank refused the Governor a loan on the basis of the 3 per cent.
                    fund; in fact, that bank was now about to go out of business. [Western Sun, December 1, 1821.]
            In obedience to a joint resolution of the Legislature, passed December, 1821 [Western Sun, December 29, 1821], D. C. Lane, State treasurer,
                    reported that he had tendered the branch bank at 
                        Vevay
                     $7,081 on December 20; on the 22d he had tendered the
                    branch at 
                        Brookville
                     $12,216; on the 27th he had tendered $448 to
                    the Corydon Bank, and two days later he had offered the latter $1,455
                    more. [Senate Journal, 1821, p. 147.] In all, he had tendered
                    $21,200, and the bank had refused it. This was offered in the
                    bank's own paper. A short time afterward Treasurer Lane went to 
                        Vincennes
                     and counted down to the cashier of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank $10,000 in its own currency, and asked for
                    State's bonds in equal amounts. The cashier answered that the State
                    owed the bank nothing and that the bank had none of the State's bonds,
                    He had already turned these over to the Secretary of the Treasury of the 
                        United States
                    , W. H. Crawford, as collateral security.
            Before the Legislature adjourned in 1821, it ordered the circuit court of 
                        Knox county
                     to issue a quo warranto writ against the bank.
                        [Western Sun, January 19, 1822.]
            At a meeting of the directors, early in the year 1822, a dividend of 40 per cent.
                    was voted, and also $3,500 to Nathaniel Ewing for service as
                    president. [Western Sun, March 16, 1822.]
            As soon as the 
                        United States
                     Secretary of the Treasury learned that the bank was insolvent, he
                    sent an agent, who met the board of directors and made arrangements for payment
                    of debts due the 
                        United States
                    . [
                        United States
                     State Papers, 2d session 17th Congress, Vol. 5.1 The directors
                    turned over what securities they had at hand, and also the real estate belonging
                    to the bank. The deed to this latter was so imperfectly executed that it took a
                    suit in the Supreme  Court to ascertain
                    whether they had actually made the transfer or not.
            Among other securities given to the 
                        United States
                     government were bonds of the State aggregating $32,750.
                    As soon as Governor Jennings learned that the State bonds had come into the
                    hands of the 
                        United States
                     government he protested to the Secretary of the Treasury. Not
                    receiving any answer, Governor Jennings called a special session of the
                    Legislature to advise him what to do in the matter. The State had received near
                    $30,000 in bank currency, which was worthless if not credited on the
                    State's bonds.
            On March 2, 1822, the Secretary of the Treasury returned these bonds to the 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank, to be redeemed in the worthless paper the State had received
                    for taxes. [Western Sun, April 6, 1822.] All the affairs
                    between the State and the federal government were amicably settled, and the
                    tax-payers of the State were saved about $30,000, a full
                    year's taxes. [State Papers, as above.]
            The report of the bank to the Governor for January, 1822, is interesting. The
                    capital stock of all the branches was $129,363; $30,000
                    each for the branches and $39,000 for 
                  Vincennes. Vincennes
                had $30 in specie and
                    $3,218 in other currency. The debts owing to it totaled
                    $184,733, of which the "Steam Mill" owed
                    $116,248, and different directors $17,333. On its board of
                    directors at the time were Davis Brown, postmaster and a member of the
                    Legislature; Wilson Lagow; Nathaniel Ewing, president of the bank, 
                        United States
                     pension agent for the State, and agent for the "Steam
                    Mill;" John D. Hay; Elias McNamee, city councilman for many years;
                    Arthur Patterson, a leading merchant; William Burtch, a merchant and importer;
                    Samuel Tomlinson, dry goods merchant; Robert Buntin, clerk of the circuit court;
                    Dennis Sayre, over whose grocery store the bank was located; George Ewing, and
                    George R. C. Sullivan, ex-postmaster and member of the Legislature. [Western Sun, January 12, 1822.]
            The Corydon branch had $4,053 in specie, $13,897 in notes
                    in cri-culation, $3,590 on deposit, with $42,007 debts.
                        [Western Sun, January 12, 1822.] On its board are many
                    names well known in early Indiana history: A. Brandon, Dennis Pennington, R. C.
                    Boon, John Depauw, Davis Floyd, Joshua Wilson, John Tipton, Joseph Merrill,
                    James Kirkpatrick, Jordan Vigus, Benjamin Adams.
            
            The 
                        Brookville
                     branch reported paid-in capital of $14,009; deposits,
                    $8,630; debts, $95,319. Its directors were John Test,
                    Enoch D. John, William E. Eads, James Noble, 
                        United States
                     Senator; Robert John, John Allen, Nathaniel Gallion, Joseph
                    Brackenridge, John Jacobs, James Backhouse, and Koah Noble, later Governor of
                    the State.
            
               
                        Vevay
                     had specie to the amount of $1,997; capital,
                    $4,651; paper in circulation, $423,783; debts,
                    $72,287.
            Comment on this kind of banking is not necessary. Some of these men were
                    dishonest—embezzlers; the 40 per cent. dividend was outright theft;
                    but it is just as certain that, taken as a whole, these directors were the
                    leading men of the State. They soon realized that the bank was a failure; and
                    the new board, elected on the first Monday of March, 1822, were nearly all from 
                        Brookville
                    . William Eads headed the committee to wind up the affairs of the
                    bank. He gathered up what was left in the way of furniture and securities, and
                    prepared to meet the creditors and the circuit court.
            Senator James Noble undertook to settle the difficulty between the bank and the 
                        United States
                    . [State Papers.] In place of the State bonds which were returned to
                    the bank, he accepted private notes and mortgages. The bank had embezzled
                    $168,453 of 
                        United States
                     money in specie on deposit. The property of the "Steam
                    Mill," and that belonging to Judge Parke and others in 
                        Vincennes
                    , passed to the 
                        United States
                    , together with not less than seventy lots in 
                        Brookville
                    . These latter show the amount that 
                        Brookville
                     stockholders lost in the 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank.
            At the June term of the circuit court of 
                        Knox county
                     a quo war-ranto suit brought the bank to an end.
                        [Western Sun, July 13, 1822.] The jury found the bank
                    officers guilty of violating the charter in several particulars, and the judge,
                    in overruling a motion in arrest of judgment, sustained their verdict. [See
                    Circuit Court Records at 
                        Vincennes
                    , under above date.]
            The State Supreme Court, on appeal, Judges Scott and Holman, affirmed the
                    decision so far as it related to the charter, but reversed it so far as it
                    related to property of the bank, so that the property reverted to the original
                    donor. [Blackford Reports.] The bank creditors were left entirely without remedy
                    and the debtors to the bank were discharged. [Western Sun,
                    November 22, 1823.]
            
            Echoes of the failure of this bank are met with frequently in the political
                    literature of the times. When State Treasurer Lane was succeeded by Mr. Merrill,
                    the former insisted on turning over the State funds in the form of these old
                    bank-notes. A mandamus suit was necessary to decide the question. [Merrill vs.
                    Lane, Blackford.]
            When Governor Jennings went to Congress he called for the papers concerning the
                    bank, and attempted to make out a case of collusion between the bank and 
                        United States
                     officers in Indiana. [State Papers.] The House of Representatives
                    called for the papers, but it resulted in nothing but additional disgrace and
                    humiliation to the bank officers and directors. The 
                        Madison
                     Bank was cited to show what honest men could have done.
            Governor Hendricks, who succeeded Jennings, took advantage of his annual message
                    to read the State a lecture on wildcat banking. Vincennes never regained the
                    prestige in State politics she lost in this unfortunate affair.
         
         
         
            THE INSTITUTIONAL HISTORY OF 
                        LAKE COUNTY
                     IN THE LAST CENTURY.
            
               BY KATHERINE C. SWARTZ, Earlham College.
            THE most interesting natural feature of 
                        Lake county
                     is the Calumet river, which enters the county
                    from 
                        Porter
                    , two miles south of Lake Michigan, and flows
                    westward, bearing a little south, along a marshy valley across the county. It
                    continues on in the State of 
                        Illinois
                    , running northeasterly until it reaches Blue Island Bluff, then
                    turns back and flows but little south of east in a line parallel with its
                    western flow, until it has again almost crossed the county of 
                        Lake
                    , and enterse Lake Michigan two miles west and
                    two north of its entrance from 
                        Porter
                     into 
                        Lake
                    . It is said that the Indians, some ninety years ago, opened with
                    the paddles of their canoes a new channel for this river in the marshy ground
                    between Calumet lake, in 
                        Illinois
                    , and Wolf lake, in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , both near Lake Michigan, and thus turned a
                    portion of its waters into this lake by a northern course of a few miles,
                    beginning two miles west of the State line. The Calumet has, therefore, now two
                    mouths, some twenty miles apart. The eastward and westward flow of these
                    northern streams is produced by the peculiar ridges of sand crossing the
                    northern portion of the county. South of the watershed, the ridges and woodland
                    and the prairies cause the streams to flow northward and southward.
            The surface and soil of this county ar.e quite varied. There is some low, level,
                    marshy land, as well as low and marshy prairie, and rolling prairie with long
                    ridges of woodland. There is rich, black soil of the prairie, and the still
                    deeper rich soil of the high and dry marsh. Two notable ditches have been made
                    in the southern part of the county for draining these marshes. The first one is
                    the Singleton ditch, which begins in Eagle Creek township, flows north of
                    Lineville, and then directly west, emptying into West creek, which flows into
                    the Kankakee. Finding this ditch not sufficiently large to carry off the water,
                    another—the Brown ditch—was made, starting somewhat south
                    of the point of the beginning of the Singleton  ditch, and running along almost parallel with it,
                    and joining it as it flows into West creek. These ditches are still found to be
                    insufficient for the required drainage, and now there is talk of widening the
                    Singleton ditch to one hundred feet. Over the county and above the line of the
                    watershed, the warm vapor from the southern valleys and the slopes meets with
                    the cooler vapor of Lake Michigan, giving to the county in
                    ordinary seasons an abundance of moisture and causing the atmosphere to be very
                    seldom perfectly cloudless. Since the waters of Lake
                    Michigan become quite warm and continue so during October, and
                    sometimes through November, the north wind, bringing that vapor and warm air
                    over the ridges and down the southern slopes of the Kankakee, keeps off the
                    early autumn frost, and this county is sometimes protected for weeks after the
                    first frost appears farther west and south. Although the springs are wet and
                    backward occasionally, the autumns are quite warm very late, and are, therefore,
                    delightful.
            The earliest knowledge concerning the Indian tribes of all this region comes from
                    the French explorers of two hundred years ago and more, who, as early as 1679,
                    passed in canoes down the Kankakee river, and some of
                    whom—La Salle, with three other Frenchmen and an Indian
                    hunter—passed on foot across our borders in the spring of 1680. After
                    the War of the Revolution, only Indians, trappers and fur-traders were here
                    until after the purchase of the land by the government from the Pottowatomies in
                    1832, when they turned it over to the whites, but the Indians were still on
                    their hunting and trapping grounds in considerable numbers when the first
                    settlers came in. Their fayorite resorts were along the streams, around Cedar
                    lake and at Wiggins Point. The Calumet river was especially
                    attractive to them, since it furnished so many muskrats and mink for fur, and so
                    many fish and water fowl for food. In this section of the country were a number
                    of Indians' floats, which were something like a soldier's land
                    warrant. The Indians about here lived in lodges or wigwams. The men wore a
                    calico shirt, leg-gins, moccasins and a blanket. The squaws wore a broad cloth
                    skirt. and a blanket. In 1836 a large part of this tribe, numbering about five
                    hundred, met in 
                        Chicago
                    , and, led by their chief, "Chee-chee-bing-way,"
                    left this region for their Western reservation.
            
            In 1833 the first cabin was built in 
                        Lake county
                     by a white man, named Bennett, at the mouth of the
                        Calumet river, for the entertainment of travelers going
                    along the beach, on their way to the West. During the summer of 1834 the 
                        United States
                     surveyors surveyed the land and settlers began to make claims.
                    Richard Fancher selected a part of section 17 and Charles Wilson selected land
                    near. Cedar lake. In 1834 Solon Robinson, with his family,
                    came and settled on the land now forming part of Crown Point. In October of the
                    same year Thomas Childers and family, with a number of others, came from the 
                        Wabash
                    , Mr. Childers settling in the southeast quarter of section 17, on
                    the edge of School Grove, they being the first known settlers in the central
                    part of the county. From this time settlements were continually being made.
                    According to the claim register, six were made in 1834 and twenty-nine in 1835.
                    The years 1836-'37 were marked by increased numbers, and in 1840 there
                    was a population of 1,468.
            With the pioneers, civilized life had begun. Logs for their cabins were hauled by
                    oxen. There were no rafters nor shingles, but instead of shingles, shakes
                    (clapboards) two feet long, rived out of a white oak log. Poles were put on
                    these shakes to keep them in place; no nails were necessary. The door was hung
                    with wooden hinges. The chimney was of sticks, laid up square and split out as
                    nearly like laths as possible. Clay mortar was laid on with each lath, the whole
                    was carried up above the roof, and the inside and the hearth were all clay, kept
                    in place by logs outside. All was plastered inside and out with clay mortar.
                    Furniture was scarce. There were no fastenings of any kind to the door except a
                    wooden latch, with a string attached, by which the door was fastened, and in
                    speaking of the hospitality of the pioneers, it is said that "the
                    latchstring was always out." The man was rich who owned a breaking
                    team. Tools were very primitive. Harrows were home-made, with wooden teeth. The
                    only tool that has held its own is the American ax.
            Pioneers came into the country from the southward—descendants of those
                    who settled in 
                  Virginia,
                            Kentucky
                and 
                        Tennessee
                    . Families also came from 
                  Ohio, Pennsylvania,
                            New Jersey, New York
                and the 
                        New England
                     States, bringing their intelligence, their enterprise and their
                    untiring energy. Settlers also came from the banks of the Rhine and from many of
                    the kingdoms of 
                        Germany
                    , with their industry  and
                    sturdiness; from 
                        Scotland
                     and Sweden, from 
                        Denmark
                     and the villages and fields of Holland.
            The Squatters' Union, which was organized in 1836 for the better
                    security of the pioneers upon the public lands, ceased after the land sale of
                    1839, and improvements were continually being made, societies formed and clubs
                    organized.
            Among the social orders was one known as the "Patrons of
                    Husbandry." The individual organizations were called Granges. This was
                    organized in 
                        Washington City
                    , August, 1867, and now comprises a National Grange, State Grange
                    and subordinate granges. It was designed for the pecuniary, social, intellectual
                    and moral improvement of the agricultural community. A number of these granges
                    are in the county at present.
            At the first Masonic lodge of the county there were but six members; now there
                    are numerous, prosperous and influential lodges in the county.
            One of the most prosperous and interesting social organizations is that of the
                    Old Settlers' Meeting, which was organized July 24, 1875. Their first
                    meeting was September 25, 1875, since which time they have held one meeting a
                    year.
            The Tolleston Club, in the northern part of the county, is of great interest.
                    During the spring of 1871 some of the sportsmen of 
                        Chicago
                     formed an association, which they designated "Tolleston
                    Club of 
                        Chicago
                    ." In 1881 they purchased and fenced in two thousand acres
                    of marsh, which they held exclusively for their own shooting purposes, by
                    stationing guards about the boundaries. There is a natural dam in the river near
                    there, which causes the water to flow over the land, keeping it wet and damp at
                    all times, to which the wild game naturally flocks. The club still exists and
                    protects its game and property with great success.
            Another institution, well known outside the county, was "The Roby Race
                    Track," which first originated about 1892-'93, with the
                    Columbian Athletic Association, Dominic O'Malley being president. A
                    large arena was built, which held about ten thousand people, just within the
                    county limits. During the World's Fair a number of prize-fighting
                    contests were held. This was during Governor Mat-thews's
                    administration. The promoters defied all local authority;  the sheriff was unable to control them, and they
                    even defied the Governor, but were enally controlled by the militia, which he
                    sent, and at last the Columbian Athletic Association was broken up. Then John
                    Condon, one of the most noted gamblers in 
                        Chicago
                    , secured the tract of ground near the arena, and started the Roby
                    track, in company with others of his class. At first there was only one track
                    there—the Roby track—but owing to the State law which was
                    passed permitting only fifteen days' continuous racing on one track at
                    a time, and requiring thirty days to intervene between the meetings on the same
                    track, the company built two other tracks, called the
                    "Lakeside" and "Sheffield." By holding their
                    meeting of fifteen clays first at Roby, then at Lakeside, and next at Sheffield,
                    they were enabled lawfully to have racing the year round.
            There is a lodge in the southern part of the county called the Cumberland Lodge,
                    which was organized about 1873 by two English gentlemen. who were interested in
                    hunting, and invested quite a sum of money in lands on School Grove Islands and
                    adjoining the marshes. The improvements which the Englishmen made bear the name
                    of "Cumberland Lodge," and at the time its formation was one
                    of the most important events of the county, although at present little is heard
                    of it.
            In the care of the poor an important change has taken place. Until 1854 the poor
                    were taken care of in the townships in which they reside, but in March of that
                    year the necessity of an almshouse was plainly seen. Accordingly, land was
                    procured and a house erected, which was used for this purpose until December 11,
                    1869, when it was declared that a tract of land containing in all 280 acres
                    should be the poor farm. This was increased, and now consists of four hundred
                    acres owned by the county.
            In the early days there were no churches, but there were always some whose love
                    for men and reverence for religious teachings prompted them to keep open house
                    for every preacher who came that way. In 1836 a missionary of the Methodist
                    Episcopal Church was sent in by the presiding elder, ancl preached in a cabin of
                    Thomas Reed and at other places every six weeks. After six months'
                    labor the first Methodist class was organized at Pleasant Grove, at the
                    residence of E. W. Bryant. In 1838 the first quarterly  meeting in the county was held at the home of
                    William Payne. Bishop Roberts conducted the meeting. In 1845 a great revival
                    commenced, and this class was divided under two leaders, and the work prospered
                    in different parts of the county. Church buildings were erected and successful
                    work was carried on. In 1853 the county was divided into two
                    circuits—the Crown Point circuit and the 
                        Lowell
                     circuit. There are four German Methodist churches in the county,
                    the oldest and largest one being the Cedar Lake Church,
                    organized in 1853.
            The Evangelical Association commenced missionary work at Cedar
                    Lake in 1855, and a church was organized and a building erected. One
                    was also erected at Crown Point in 1867.
            Rev. R. C. Brown, pastor of the Presbyterian Church of 
                        Valparaiso
                    , visited Crown Point in 1840, and conducted union services in the
                    log court-house. Early in 1844 Lake Presbytery authorized
                    him to organize a church. A building was completed in 1847. Numerous other
                    churches were organized throughout the county, which maintained Sunday-schools,
                    and a few have Christian Endeavor societies.
            Three families from 
                        Massachusetts
                     and two from 
                        New York
                    , on June 17, 1838, formed themselves into a Baptist organization,
                    and on May 19, 1838, fifteen in number, they were publicly recognized as a
                    Baptist Church of Christ by a council of six brethren. On that same Sunday the
                    ordinance of the Lord's Supper was for the first time observed by the
                    Baptists of 
                        Lake county
                    .
            In the summer of 1876 a number of evangelists began to hold religious meetings at
                    different places in the central part of the county. After these meetings closed,
                    the leaders were obliged to change their plans, so they formed local bands into
                    church organizations, called the "Union Mission Church." As
                    the result of this band movement there is left in the county the church at Ross,
                    with a good brick building, some few members at 
                        Hobart
                    , with a wooden building, and the Free Methodist Church, at Crown
                    Point, with a small brick building, keeping up regular services each week.
            The first Catholic settler in the county was John Hack, who settled near St.
                    Johns in 1837. Soon other families came and each large settlement required a
                    church building and resident pastor or priest. The first chapel was built at St.
                    Johns in 1843.
            
            There are at least two varieties of Lutherans. The Evangelical Lutherans first
                    established a church in 1857.
            The Hollanders have one church in the county, which was commenced about 1855 by
                    Dingeman Jabaay.
            The exact date of the organization of the first Sunday-school is not known. Mrs.
                    Russell Eddy, having come from 
                        Michigan City
                     as a member of the Baptist Church, about 1837, gathered at her home
                    a few children on Sunday afternoon and instructed them in the Scriptures. On
                    account of the prejudices or indisposition to religion of her neighbors, this
                    gathering was not called a Sunday-school.
            The Baptists who settled at Cedar Lake and formed themselves
                    into a church, commenced a Sunday-school in 1839. Rev. Mr. Brown, from 
                        Valparaiso
                    , in connection with the Baptist pastor from Cedar
                    Lake, held regular meetings at Crown Point about 1839, and organized
                    a union Sunday-school, which was carried on by the Baptists, Presbyterians and
                    Methodists after 1843. This school was removed to the Presbyterian Church and
                    dropped the name of Union, and, about 1856, it became the Presbyterian school.
            A few superintendents, teachers and friends of Sunday-schools in 
                        Lake county
                    , met at Crown Point, September 6, 1865, for the purpose of forming
                    a convention, which meets once a year in August, generally at the county fair
                    grounds.
            
               
                        Lake county
                     began its political existence in March, 1835, when the
                    commissioners of 
                        Laporte county
                    , to which both 
                        Lake
                     and 
                        Porter
                     were attached, ordered that all the territory of 
                        Lake
                    , and as far east in 
                        Porter
                     as the center of range six west, should constitute a township, to
                    be known as Ross. On the 28th of January, 1836, the Governor approved the
                    special enactment creating the counties of 
                        Lake
                     and 
                        Porter
                    , and by an act of the Legislature, approved January 18, 1837, it
                    was declared that 
                        Lake
                     should be an independent county after February 15, 1837. In the
                    spring of 1836 the commissioners divided the territory of 
                        Lake
                     into three townships—North, Center and
                    South—and ordered an election for a justice of the peace in each
                    township, which was the first election held in 
                        Lake county
                    , the date being March 28, 1837. At that time there were  only three voting precincts, and the total number
                    of votes cast was seventy-eight.
            In response to an entreaty from 
                        Lake county
                    , the State Legislature in February, 1839, appointed five locating
                    commissioners to proceed to 
                        Lake county
                     and locate a county seat; whereupon, an action was taken locating
                    it at 
                        Liverpool
                    , which was very unsatisfactory to all the citizens in the central
                    and southern portions of the county. Consequently, the county officers were
                    publicly urged not to go to that town until the State Legislature had been
                    petitioned for a re-location. At the session of 1839-'40, the
                    Legislature received information of this dissatisfaction existing in the county,
                    and a re-location was ordered, and it was unanimously decided to fix the seat of
                    justice on Section 8, near where the present court-house is situated. Mr.
                    Robinson furnished a court-house for the county which was constructed of logs,
                    and which was used until 1850. A frame court-house was then erected at the cost
                    of $10,000. In 1879 a brick building was completed, the corner-stone
                    being laid in September, 1878. There has been some trouble between 
                        Hammond
                     and Crown Point over the county-seat, beginning about twenty years
                    ago, when an attempt was made to pass a bill giving permission to move the
                    county-seat. An amendment was added to the bill by Senator Youche, that the said
                    county-seat must not be within four miles of the county line, which was a blow
                    to 
                        Hammond
                    , as it is almost on the State line. Nevertheless, the superior
                    court was finally located at 
                        Hammond
                     early in the nineties, at which time the jurisdiction was limited,
                    but since then its power has increased until now it has concurrent jurisdiction
                    with the circuit court. This is said to be one of a few counties where the seat
                    of justice is divided between two places.
            The first county jail building was erected in 1851, just north of the old frame
                    court-house building, and was used for this purpose until 1880, when it was
                    decided that a more secure confinement for criminals was necessary; accordingly,
                    a large two-story brick building was constructed at the total cost of
                    $23,367, being completed in 1882. It stands on Main street, directly
                    north of the Methodist Episcopal church.
            The first circuit court of the county was held in October, 1837,  which session was quiet and peaceful, there being
                    at that time no drinking places.
            The mail service in the early days was very limited. In 1837, Congress
                    established some mail routes through the county, which had before only been
                    crossed by the 
                        Detroit
                     and Fort Dearborn mail, carried in coaches along the 
                        Michigan
                     beach. The first route was from Laporte to Joliet. This was the
                    principal mail line of the county until the railroad era commenced. The second
                    was from 
                        Michigan City
                     to Peoria. Later, other routes were established; and as the
                    railroads came in, the mail service increased.
            In the early days, until 1850, agriculture was the main dependence of the county,
                    but after the railroads came a new element of growth and progress was formed in 
                        Lake county
                    . The first railroad was the 
                        Michigan
                     Central, making its way from 
                        Detroit
                    ; it was completed in 1850. A station was located at Deep
                        River, named Lake. This was the beginning of a new era, for up to
                    this time every bushel of grain, and pound of cheese, butter and pork, as well
                    as all the produce of every kind, must reach the 
                        Chicago
                     market by the slow transportation of ox and horse teams. By this
                    means also, all the lumber, nails and every article of merchandise purchased was
                    imported. At this time there was very little profit in farming. The second
                    railroad was the 
                        Michigan
                     Southern. The Joliet cut-off was built in 1854, when the stations
                    of Dyer and Ross were started, Dyer becoming immediately the most important
                    shipping point in the county. The 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     road was completed in 1858, and as time went on, other railroads
                    were extended across the county.
            Farming, stock-raising and dairy products now began to be profitable; hay became
                    a very valuable article of export. Although this is largely an agricultural and
                    stock-raising community, still other interests sprang up in this railroad
                    period.
            Two brothers, Thomas and William Fisher, in 1850, started at South East Grove a
                    broom factory, where work was carried on until 1859, when they removed the
                    factory to a farm south of Crown Point, where Thomas Fisher still continues the
                    business, which has proved very profitable.
            The year 1832 marked the beginning of bridge building in the  county. Two northeast of town were built at an
                    expense of $500. The bridge across West creek cost $400.
                    Other valuable bridges were built. Were it not for these, we would not have our
                    long highways—three of which are worthy of mention. The north and
                    south road from near Hickory Top through Winfield, on a section line one mile
                    west of 
                        Porter county
                    , is straight for about eight miles. The north and south road east
                    from Crown Point is straight for more than ten miles. The east and west road in
                    this county is straight for eight miles. During the winter and damp seasons, the
                    roads were almost impassable, especially with heavy loads, but the county has
                    made great improvements in that line by building miles of macadamized roads
                    between the most important places of the county in every township, thus
                    improving all the important highways.
            The first attempt to publish a newspaper in the county was some time prior to
                    1840. A small press and a small amount of type was procured, by which hand
                    bills, land transfers, extras on agriculture and poems on local subjects of
                    special interest were printed.
            From an industrial standpoint, the northern part of our county is the most
                    interesting and contains the greater wealth. The principal industry in the
                    southern part of the county is agriculture, hay-raising and the like. Dairying
                    is one of the leading industries of this vicinity. Some attention has been given
                    to horse-raising, the third Tuesday of every month being known as horse-sale day
                    in Crown Point.
            The first meeting to organize an agricultural society in 
                        Lake county
                     was held in Crown Point, August 27, 1851. William Clark was
                    chairman. The next meeting was August 30, when the constitution was adopted and
                    it was agreed to hold the first fair on October 28, 1852, the sum of
                    $100 being appropriated for premiums. The total number of premiums
                    awarded was forty-three. At this fair there was no racing, and it lasted only
                    one day. At present, the fairs are continued four or five days, and both horse
                    and wheel racing are considered part of the main features. The fair grounds are
                    owned by the county and have natural advantages. The half-mile race track
                    surrounds a natural lake, fed by springs, and being built around the lake as it
                    is causes the track to give, which renders 
                    it especially adapted for breaking in young horses, which can be trotted as fast
                    as desired without injury.
            The first school of the county was taught by Mrs. Harriet Holton, in
                    1835-'36, in a private house. The number of scholars was three. The
                    second school was commenced in the fall of 1837, in Pleasant Grove, and was
                    taught in a part of the log cabin of Samuel Bryant by a Mr. Collins. The first
                    schoolhouse in the county was the little black log cabin which came into use
                    about 1838, and was used until 1842, when a frame structure was erected and as
                    many as fifty scholars were in attendance. This building was used until 1859.
                    The next schoolhouse was built at Cedar Lake in 1838. After
                    this period, as the settlements increased, schools were started in different
                    parts of the county. A schoolhouse in the southern part of the county was built
                    of unhewn logs, chinked with pieces of wood, and plastered on the outside with
                    mortar made of clay. The roof was made of long shingles or clap-boards supported
                    by logs and held in position by poles laid across each tier. No nails were used
                    in the roof. The floor was made of puncheons. The seats were of slabs with the
                    level surface upward, supported with wooden legs and without backs.
            Up to the year 1857 there were but few schoolhouses in the county. The greater
                    number were temporary. Since that year the school buildings have been
                    increasing, both as to number and quality; every year frame and brick houses are
                    rapidly being constructed for the accommodation of 
                        Lake county
                    's children. One reason for so marked a change in the
                    improvements of the public schools is due to the influence arising from the
                    county institutes which are held in different parts of the county, the teachers
                    being required to attend in order to compare views upon the different methods of
                    teaching, each being benefited by the views and suggestions of the others. The
                    first institute, opening November 1, 1866, was held in the Presbyterian church
                    at Crown Point, and was conducted by W. W. Cheshire. The third institute, held
                    in 1868, was conducted by James H. Ball. They have continued to meet once a year
                    ever since.
            The first normal school instruction given in this county was by T. H. Ball, who
                    opened the school August 19, 1872. The session  continued thirteen weeks. The next normal was held
                    by the county superintendents July 17, 1876, and continued six weeks, the rate
                    of tuition being $1 per week, and the number enrolled being
                    fifty-six. These normal schools have been continued and are being held every
                    year for six weeks during the summer vacation—the rate of tuition
                    being $5 for the term.
            The present teachers' association of 
                        Lake county
                     was organized at Crown Point, November 2, 1883, with twenty-five
                    members. The second meeting was held at 
                        Hammond
                    , and it has since continued to meet at different places in the
                    county and is always well attended.
            At one time there was an academic school, started at Crown Point in 1856 by a
                    Miss Parsons. She taught a subscription school and continued the same until her
                    death in 1860.
            There are several literary societies in the county at different places. The
                        Cedar Lake Lyceum was organized in 1846 for boys, but
                    is no longer in existence. The Cedar Lake Belles Letters
                    Society, including girls among its members, was organized in 1847, meeting only
                    once each month, with its chief attention being given to writing. There were
                    several organizations of this society, which were designed to be a 
                        Lake county
                     literary society; but, from lack of literary spirit, they did not
                    continue long.
         
         
         
            INDEX OF HISTORICAL ARTICLES IN INDIANA NEWSPAPERS.
            SEPTEMBER, 1910–NOVEMBER, 1910
            
               PREPARED BY FLORENCE VENN, Reference Librarian, Indiana State
                        Library.
            Abbreviations: Ind., 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; mag. see., magazine section; p., page; c., column.
            
               Antietam, Battle of. Indiana men in battle. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Sept. 17, 1910, p. 7, c. 1.
               Boundaries. History of 
                            Ohio
                        -Indiana boundary. Ind. News, Nov. 5, 1910, p. 21, c. 1; 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Nov. 8, 1910, p. 11, c. 2; 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Nov. 8, 1910, p. 4, c. 4.
               Boyce, James. Death of and sketch of life. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Sept. 2, 1910, p. 14, c. 1.
               Carpenter, Walter T. Death of and sketch of life. 
                            Richmond
                         Item, Sept. 1, 1910, p. 2, c. 3; 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Sept. 1, 1910, p. 2, c. 1; Ind. News, Sept. 1, 1910,
                        p. 2, c. 4.
               Cavins, E. H. C. Death of. 
                            Lafayette
                         Courier, Sept. 12, 1910, p. 3, c. 2.
               Church history. Baptist and Methodist services held in
                            Whitewater valley in 1797. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Sept. 19, 1910, p. 5, c. 5.
               — First Protestant services held in Whitewater
                        valley. Ind. News, Sept. 17, 1910, p. 4, c. 3.
               Counties. Bitter fights over county seats in early days. Ind. News, Oct.
                        8. 1910, p. 26, c. 6.
               Eggleston, Edward. Reminiscences of Rev. R. M. Barnes. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 26, 1910, p. 8, c. 3.
               Friends, Society of. History of meetings in Indiana. Ind. News, Sept. 17,
                        1910, p. 23, c. 2.
               G. A. R. Notre Dame post. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Sept. 24, 1910, p. 3, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        . History of banking in 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Ind. Star, Sept. 6, 1910, p. 13, c. 1.
               — Amusing incidents of early days. Ind. News, Sept. 24, 1910,
                        p. 27, c. 2.
               
               — History of its fire department. Ind. News, Nov. 11, 1910, p.
                        15.
               — Ezra Meeker's recollections of early 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Ind. Star, Nov. 27, 1910, p. 9, c. 1.
               Jameson, Patrick H. Death of. Ind. News, Oct. 8, 1910, p. 19, c. 3; Ind.
                        Star, Oct. 8, 1910, p. 1, c. 3; 
                            Lafayette
                         Courier, Oct. 8, 1910, p. 5, c. 2.
               
                  
                            Lafayette
                        . History of 
                            Salem
                         Reformed Church read at its fiftieth anniversary. 
                            Lafayette
                         Courier, Sept. 5, 1910, p. 4, c. 3.
               Maps. Indiana map of 1826. Ind. Star, Oct. 30, 1910, p. 8. c. 2; 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Nov. 1, 1910, p. 10, c. 2; 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, Nov. 6, 1910, p. 8, c. 2.
               — State map of 1830. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Oct. 25, 1910, p. 9, c. 2.
               Masons. History of, in 
                     Fort
                            Wayne. Fort
                        Wayne
                   Journal-Gazette, Oct. 5, 1910, p. 2, c. 1.
               Mexican war. Copy of 
                            Evansville
                         Journal of May 8, 18.16. Ind. News, Sept. 3, 1910, p. 5, c. 5.
               — Indiana in the war. Ind. Star, Sept. 4, 1910, p. 8, c. 1.
               — Part played by 2nd Indiana as told by Gen. McNaught. Ind.
                        Star, Sept. 11, 1910, p. 12, c. 1.
               Mexican war veterans. Last meeting of national association. Ind. News,
                        Sept. 6, 1910, p. 1, c. 8; Ind. Star, Sept. 7, 1910, p. 3, c. 1.
               Meyers, J. F. W. Death of pioneer 
                            Ft. Wayne
                         druggist. 
                            Ft. Wayne
                         Journal-Gazette, Sept. 8, 1910, p. 1, c. 7.
               Minerva club. Description of first woman's club in
                                
                     America. Richmond
                   Item, Oct. 25, 1910, p. 4, c. 3; 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Nov. 11, 1910, p. 6, c. 3.
               — Pictures of house where club was founded and of its founder. 
                            Richmond
                         Item, Oct. 26, 1910, p. 2, c. 4.
               Moody, William Vaughn. Death of. Ind. News, Oct. 18, 1910, p. 4, c. 5;
                        Ind. Star, Oct. 18, 1910, p. 1, c. 4.
               
                  
                            Muncie
                        . Main street fifty years ago. 
                            Muncie
                         Press, Sept. 1, 1910, p. 9, c. 2.
               Names, geographical. Mixed origin of many names on Indiana's map.
                        Ind. News, Sept. 24, 1910, p. 18, c. 1.
               National road. National road and taverns in 
                     Wayne county. Richmond
                   Palladium, Oct. 2, 1910,
                        financial and historical section, p. 24, c. 3.
               
               Newspapers. Reproduction of page of 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium of August 27, 1831. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Oct. 7, 1910, p. 1, c. 4.
               Peru. History and 75th anniversary of Presbyterian Church. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Nov. 23, 1910, p. 6, c. 4.
               Pfeiffer, John C. Death of 
                            Allen county
                         pioneer. 
                            Ft. Wayne
                         Journal-Gazette, Sept. 5, 1910, p. 7, c. 4.
               Regimental histories. Reunion and history of First and Eighteenth Infantry
                        and First battery. 
                            Richmond
                         Item, Oct. 19, 1910, p. 6, c. 4.
               — Sketch of 160th regiment. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Sept. 4, 1910, p. 9, c. 1.
               Regimental histories. List of veterans attending reunion of 8th and 18th
                        infantry and 1st battery. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Oct. 21, 1910, p. 4, c. 4.
               — 29th regt. Reunion of. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Sept. 7, 1910, p. 4, c. 3.
               
                  
                            Richmond
                        . History of. 
                            Richmond
                         Item, Oct. 7, 1910, p. 2.
               St. Clair, Arthur. Story of his life. Ind. News, Sept. 10, 1910, p. 26, c.
                        5.
               
                  St. Joseph river. Early navigation on. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Sept. 1, 1910, p. 4, c. 1.
               Schools. Half a century's advance in 
                            Parker City
                        's schoolhouses.
                            Muncie
                         Star, Oct. 7, 1910, p. 6, c. 2.
               
                  
                            South Bend
                        . History and 75th anniversary of First M. E. church. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Nov. 19, 1910, p. 18, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Terre Haute
                        . Railroads figure in city's development. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, Nov. 6, 1910, p. 29, c. 1.
               — Ranks high as interurban center. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, Nov. 6, 1910, hist. sec., p. 2, c. 1.
               — Prominent men. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, Nov. 6, 1910, hist. sec.
               
                  
                            Wabash
                        . First city in the world to be lighted with electricity. 
                            Muncie
                         Press, Sept. 9, 1910, p. 4, c. 4.
               
                  
                            Wayne county
                        . History and prominent men. Ind. News, Oct. 1, 1910, p. 14.
               — History of. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Oct. 2, 1910, financial and historical section, p.
                        1.
               — Pioneers had trouble with Indians. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium. Oct. 2, 1910, p. 6, c. 5.
               
               — Some of its noted men. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Oct. 3, 1910, p. 4, c. 5.
               — Friendly to slaves. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Oct. 3, 1910, p. 4, c. 5.
               
                  Whitewater valley. Earliest Protestant church service
                        in Indiana held there. Ind. News, Sept. 17, 1910, p. 4, c. 3.
               — Baptist and Methodist services held in 1797. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Sept. 19, 1910, p. 5, c. 5.
               Women's clubs. 
                            New Harmony
                         Minerva club the first women's club in
                                
                     America. South
                                Bend
                   Tribune, Nov. 11, 1910, p. 6, c. 3.
               — Pictures of house in which Minerva club was founded and of
                        its founder. 
                            Richmond
                         Item, Oct. 26, 1910, p. 2, c. 4.
            
         
         
         
            THE PROGRAM OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION MEETING AT 
                        INDIANAPOLIS
                    
            
            OFFICERS OF THE ASSOCIATION
            
               President
                FREDERICK J.
                        TURNER, 
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.
            
               First Vice-president
                WILLIAM M. SLOANE, 
                        New York
                    
            
            
               Second Vice-president
                THEODORE ROOSEVELT, Oyster Bay
            
               Secretary
                WALDO G. LELAND, Carnegie Institution, 
                        Washington
                    
            
            
               Treasurer
                CLARENCE W.
                        BOWEN, 
                        New York
                    
            
            
               Secretary of the Council
                CHARLES H. HASKINS, 
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.
            
               Curator
                HOWARD CLARK, Smithsonian Institution, 
                        Washington
                    
            
            
                    Executive Council
                
            (In addition to the above officers)
            EX-PRESIDENl'S OF THE ASSOCIATION
            
               
                  Andrew D. White
                  Alfred Thayer Mahan
               
               
                  James B. Angell
                  John Bach McMaster
               
               
                  Henry Adams
                  Simeon E. Baldwin
               
               
                  James Schouler
                  J. Franklin Jameson
               
               
                  James Ford Rhodes
                  George B. Adams
               
               
                  Charles Francis Adams
                  Albert Bushnell Hart
               
            
            
            ELECTED
            
               
                  Max Farrand
                  Charles H. Hull
               
               
                  Frank H. Hodder
                  Franklin I. Riiey
               
               
                  Evarts B. Greene
                  Edwin E. Sparks
               
            
            
                    Committee on the Present Program
                
            EVARTS B. GREENE, Chairman
            
               
                  Wilbur C. Abbott
                  Earl W. Dow
               
               
                  Archibald C. Coolidge
                  William I. Westermann
               
            
            James A. Woodburn
            
                    Committee on Local Arrangements
                
            CALVIN N. KENDALL, Chairman
            
               
                  Christopher B. Coleman, Secretary
                  Jacob P. Dunn
               
               
                  Evarts B. Greene
                  John H. Holliday
               
               
                  Thomas C. Howe
                  Charles W. Moores
               
               
                  Meredith Nicholson
                  Charles R. Williams
               
               
                  Charles E. Coffin
                  Grace Julian Clarke
               
            
            The Twenty-sixth Annual Meeting of the American Historical Association will be
                    held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 27–30, 1910. The North Central History
                    Teachers' Association, the Mississippi Valley
                    Historical Association, and the Ohio Valley Historical
                    Assaciation will also hold meetings at the same time and place.
            NORTH CENTRAL HISTORY TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION
            
            James A. Wooklburn, President, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Ind.
            MISSISSIPPI VALLEY HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION
            
            Benjamin F. Shambaugh, President, 
                        Iowa
                     State University, 
                        Iowa City
                    , Ia.
            OHIO VALLEY HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION
            
            Isaac J. Cox, President, University of
                            
                  Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio
               
            
            
            GENERAL ARRANGEMENTS
            No special railroad rates have been attainable for conventions held within the
                    territory of the Central Passenger Association in the immediate future. Where
                    ten or more persons go together on a block ticket a considerable reduction is
                    ordinarily given by the railroad companies.
            The headquarters of the meeting will be at the Claypool Hotel. The registration
                    office there will be open from Tuesday noon, December 27, to Friday evening,
                    December 30.
            Members of the Association will be given admission to the clubs and various
                    institutions of the city.
            A general reception for ladies and gentlemen will be given Wednesday night at the
                    John Herron Art Institute. A reception for visiting ladies will be given
                    Thursday afternoon. A smoker will be given for men after the program, Thursday
                    evening, at the University Club. A luncheon is being arranged for Friday at
                    12:30. This luncheon will be held at the Claypool Hotel, and the charge per
                    plate will be $1.50. Members wishing to attend should notify C. B.
                    Coleman, 440 Newton Claypool Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and inclose check.
            Letters concerning local arrangements other than those relating to hotels and
                    rooms should be addressed to C. B. Coleman, 440 Newton Claypool Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . All correspondence relating to the program should be addressed to
                    Evarts B. Greene, University of 
                  Illinois, Urbana
               , Ill.
            PROGRAM
            Papers are limited to twenty minutes and discussions to ten minutes for each
                    speaker. Those who read papers or take part in the conferences are requested to
                    furnish the Secretary with abstracts of their papers or remarks.
            Persons not members of the Association will be cordially welcomed to the regular
                    sessions.
            
            
               TUESDAY, December 27.
            12:30 P. M. UNIVERSITY CLUB, Meridian and 
                        Michigan
                     Streets. Luncheon and business meeting of the Ohio
                    Valley Historical Association.
            4:00 p. m. CLAYPOOL HOTEL.
            Conference on Historical Publication Work in the Ohio
                    Valley.
            8:00 p. m. PALM ROOM, CLAYPOOL HOTEL.
            Session on Western History. Joint session of the American Historical Association,
                    the Ohio Valley Historical Association, and the
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                    Association.—Chairman, Benjamin F. Shambaugh, 
                        Iowa State
                     University.
            
               "New Light on the Explorations of the Verendrye." Orin
                        G. Libby, University of 
                            North Dakota
                        . Discussion by Lawrence J. Burpee, 
                     Ottawa, Canada
                  .
               "The American Intervention in 
                            West Florida
                        ." Isaac J. Cox, University of 
                            Cincinnati
                        . Discussion by a speaker to be announced.
               "A Century of Steamboat Navigation on the 
                            Ohio
                        ." Archer B. Hulbert, Marietta College. Discussion by
                        R. B. Way, Indiana University.
               "The Beginnings of the Free-Trade Movement in the Canadian
                        Northwest." P. E. Gunn, Winnipeg, 
                            Canada
                        . "Early Forts on the Upper 
                            Mississippi
                        ." Dan E. Clark, State Historical Society of 
                            Iowa
                        .
            
            
               WEDNESDAY, December 28.
            9:00 a. m. Meetings of Committees (at call of the chairmen).
            9:30 a. m. ASSEMBLY ROOM, CLAYPOOL HOTEL.
            Session on the Teaching of History and Civics under the auspices of the North
                    Central History Teachers' Association. —Chairman, James A.
                    Woodburn, Indiana University.
            
               "The Evolution of the Teacher." Lucy M. Salmon, Vas-sar
                        College.
               "Is Government Teachable in the Schools?" Albert
                        Bush-nell Hart, 
                            Harvard
                         University.
               "Local History and the City Community as Themes for  Civic Teaching." Arthur W. Dunn,
                        Central High School, 
                            Philadelphia
                        .
               "How the 
                            Cincinnati
                         Public Schools Are Using Local History." Frank P.
                        Goodwin, Woodward High School, 
                            Cincinnati
                        .
               Discussion.
               An Illustrative Civics Class from the Eighth Grade, 
                            Indianapolis
                         Public Schcols, "Waste and Saving." Miss
                        Flora Swan, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            2:00 p. m.
            Conferences.
            
               
                  Ancient History. Palm Room, Claypool Hotel. 
                     Chairman, Henry B. Wright, Yale University.
                     "The Western Campaigns of Sennacherib." Robert
                                W. Rogers, Drew Theological Seminary.
                     "Motive and Character in Polybius." George W.
                                Botsford, 
                                    Columbia
                                 University.
                     "Some Aspects of Roman Imperialism." R. F.
                                Scholz, University of 
                                    California
                                .
                     "The Monument of Ancyra." William L. Westermann,
                                University of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                .
                     Discusion. Outlines of the papers will be sent in ad; vance to all
                                who notify the chairman of their intention to be present.
                  
                    
               
                  Modern European History. Club Room, Claypool Hotel.
                            
                     Chairman, Guy S. Ford, University of 
                                    Illinois
                                .
                     General Topic: "European History as a Field for American
                                Historical Work."
                     Discussion opened with a paper by Charles M. Andrews, Yale
                                University, on "The Doctor's Dissertation in
                                European History."
                     Discussion continued by Archibald C. Coolidge, 
                                    Harvard
                                 University; John M. Vincent, Johns Hopkins University;
                                James W. Thompson, University of 
                                    Chicago
                                ; Fred M. Fling, University of 
                                    Nebraska
                                .
                  
                    
               
               
                  American Diplomatic History, with Special Refererace to
                            Latin-Americarn Relations. Ladies' Cafe, Claypool Hotel.
                            
                     Chairman, James A. James, Northwestern University.
                     Papers by Joseph Schafer, Vniversity of 
                                    Oregon
                                ; Joseph H. Sears, 
                                    New York
                                ; James M. Callahan, 
                                    West Virginia
                                 University. (Subjects and additional speakers to be
                                announced.)
                  
                    
               
                  Conference of State and Local Historical Societies.
                            
                     Assembly Room, Claypool Hotel.
                     Chairman, Charles M. Burton, 
                                    Detroit
                                , Mich.
                     Transaction of business.
                     Introductory remarks by the Chairman.
                     "The Collection and Preservation of Historical Sources,
                                Manuscript and Printed, as a Function of Historical
                                Societies." Reuben G. Thwaites, State Historical Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                .
                     Discussion on "The Collection of Materials": (a)
                                "The Collection of biaterials Bearing on Religious and
                                Church History," William H. Allison, Colgate University;
                                    (b) "Publicity as a Means of Adding
                                to Collections."
                     "The Preservation and Care of Collections, n-ith Especial
                                Reference to the Restoration and Treatment of Manuscripts."
                                Clarence W. Alvord, University of 
                           Illinois, Illinois
                         State Historical
                            Library.
                  
                    
            
            8:00 p. m. ASSEMBLY ROOM, CLAYPOOL HOTEL.
            
               Address of welcome. Thomas R. Marshall, Governor of Indiana.
               Presidential Address. Frederick J. Turner, 
                            Harvard
                         University.
               At the close of the session there will be a reception for ladies and
                        gentlemen at the John Herron Art Institute. members will be taken by special
                        cars from the Claypool Hotel to the reception.
            
            
            
               THURSDAY, December 29.
            10:00 a. m. ASSEMBLY ROOM, CLAYPOOL HOTEL.
            
               General Session Commemorating the Fiftieth Anniversary of Secession.
               The North in 1860.
               "Cotton and Border Politics, 1850–1860."
                        Worthington C. Ford, 
                            Massachusetts
                         Historical Society.
               "The Decision of the Ohio Valley."
                        Carl R. Fish, University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        .
               "The Dred Scott Decision." Edward S. Corwin, 
                            Princeton
                         University.
               "The Doctrine of Secession and Coercion." Andrew C.
                        McLaughlin, University of 
                            Chicago
                        .
            
            2:00 P. M.
            Conferences.
            
               
                  Medieval History. Club Room, Claypool Hotel. 
                     Chairman, Earl W. DOW, University of 
                                    Michigan
                                .
                     "Royal Purveyance in Fourteenth Century 
                                    England
                                , Especially in the Light of Simon Islip's
                                Speculum Regis." Chalfant Robinson, Yale University.
                     General Topic: "Profitable Fields of Investigation in
                                Medieval History." Informal discussion opened by Charles H.
                                Haskins, 
                                    Harvard
                                 University, with remarks on "Comparative
                                Constitutional History."
                  
                    
               
                  Conference of Archivists. Ladies' Cafe,
                        Claypool Hotel. 
                     Chairman, Herman V. Ames, University of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                .
                     "The Work of the International Conference of Archivists
                                and Librarians at 
                                    Brussels
                                , August 28–31, 1910." A. J. F. Van
                                Laer, Archivist, State Library of 
                                    New York
                                .
                     "What Material Should Go into the Archives?"
                                Discussion opened by Dunbar Rowland, Department of Archives and
                                History, State of 
                                    Mississippi
                                , and Gaillard Hunt, Manuscripts Division, Library of
                                Congress.
                     
                     Discussion continued by Victor H. Paltsits, State Historian of 
                                    New York
                                ; Frederic I,. Paxson, University of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                ; R. D. W. Connor, 
                                    North Carolina
                                 Historical Commission; Reuben G. Thwaites, 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 State Historical Society; Thomas M. Owen, Department of
                                Archives and History, State of 
                                    Alabama
                                .
                  
                    
               
                  Conference of Teachers of History in Teachers'
                            Colleges and Normal Schools. Banquet Room T. 
                     Chairman, Albert H. Sanford, State Normal School, LaCrosse, Wis.
                     "The Professional Training of High School History
                                Teachers." Thomas N. Hoover, Teachers' College, 
                                    Ohio
                                 State University. Discussion led by Frank S. Bogardus,
                                Indiana State Normal School, 
                                    Terre Haute
                                .
                     "The Requirements Fixed by State and Other Authorities
                                for High School Teachers of History." Edgar Dawson, Normal
                                College, 
                                    New York City
                                .
                     Informal discussion.
                  
                    
            
            4:30–6:00 P. M. Tea at the residence of Mrs. E. C. Atkins, 1312 North
                    Meridian Street, to which all visiting ladies are invited.
            8:00 P. M. Session on European History. Assembly Room, Claypool Hotel.
            
               "The Efforts of the Danish Kings to Recover the English Crown
                        After the Death of Harthacnut." Laurence M. Larson, University of 
                            Illinois
                        .
               "Some Critical Notes on the Works of S. R. Gardiner."
                        Roland G. Usher, 
                            Washington
                         University.
               "Anglo-Dutch Relations, 1654–1660." Ralph C.
                        H. Catterall, Cornell University.
               "Historiography of the French Revolution with Special Reference
                        to the Work of Aulard." H. Morse Stephens, University of 
                            California
                        .
               "Alexis de Tocqueville and the Republic of 1848."
                        Charles D. Hazen, Smith College.
            
            
            10:00 P. M. Smoker at the University Club.
            
               FRIDAY, December 30.
            10:00 a.m. AUDITORIUM, Y. M. C. A. BUILDING, 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     Streets.
            
               General Session Commemorating the Fiftieth Anniversary of Secession.
               The South in 1860.
               "Some Recollections of a Horseback Ride Through the South in
                        1850." James B. Angell, President Emeritus, University of 
                            Michigan
                        .
               "The Lower South in the Election of 1860." David Y.
                        Thomas, University of 
                            Arkansas
                        .
               "
                            North Carolina
                         on the Eve of Secession." William K. Boyd, Trinity
                        College, 
                            North Carolina
                        .
               "The Waning Power of the South in the Northwest,
                        1856–1860." William E. Dodd, University of 
                            Chicago
                        .
            
            12:30 p. m. CLAYPOOL HOTEL.
            
               Luncheon, followed by informal speaking.
               Toastmaster, James A. Woodburn, Indiana University.
            
            8:00 p. m. ASSEMBLY ROOM, CLAYPOOL HOTEL.
            
               Round Table Discussion. General Topic: "The Relation of History
                        to the Newer Sciences of Mankind."
               Paper by James Harvey Robinson, 
                            Columbia
                         University.
               Discussion led by George L. Burr, Cornell University; Max Farrand, Yale
                        University; George W. Knight, 
                            Ohio
                         State University; Frederic L. Paxson, University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        ; George H. Mead, University of 
                            Chicago
                        .
            
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL.
            The approaching meeting of the American Historical, Association and allied
                    organizations from Tuesday, December 27, to Friday, December 30, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , has already been repeatedly referred to in this magazine. In this
                    number is published, practically in full, the exceedingly interesting program.
                    All of our readers should look over this program with reference to attending at
                    least some of the meetings. No charge and no restrictions of any kind are placed
                    upon the attendance of the general public. Every one interested in history is
                    cordially invited to attend the sessions. The program speaks for itself, but
                    especial attention may well be called to the session upon Western History,
                    Tuesday evening; the session upon the Teaching of History and Civics, Wednesday
                    morning; the conference of State and Local Historical Societies, Wednesday
                    afternoon; the meeting Wednesday evening to be addressed by Governor Marshall
                    and Professor Frederick J. Turner, president of the American Historical
                    Association, and the two sessions on Thursday and Friday mornings, on the
                    occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of Secession.
            The editor wishes again to urge the importance of membership in the Indiana
                    Historical Society and the American Historical Association. Opportunity will be
                    given at the registration desk at the Claypool Hotel to apply for membership in
                    either or both of these organizations. While membership is in both cases
                    elective, the governing bodies have been exceedingly liberal and broad in their
                    policy, and no one interested in history and the extension of its study need
                    hesitate to apply for membership. The annual membership fee of the American
                    Historical Society is $3, and of the Indiana Historical Society
                    $1. In both cases this entitles members to receive free of charge all
                    the regular publications of the society.
            
            The North Central History Teachers' Association, the
                        Mississippi Valley and the Ohio
                    Valley Historical Associations all meet in connection with the other
                    organizations referred to, and will also be glad to make additions to their
                    membership at this time.
            The article upon the Institutional History of 
                        Lake county
                    , published in this number, represents a kind of writing which it is
                    the policy of the INDIANA QUARTERLY MAGAZINE OF HISTORY to encourage. It is the
                    product of work done during the college course at Earlham College under the
                    direction of the Department of History. The magazine will be glad to publish
                    from time to time articles of a similar character. There are twenty or more
                    institutions of higher learning in the State where work of this sort ought to be
                    done nearly every yesr. Too much of our teaching is devoted to spiritless and
                    pointless traveling over the well-worn, hard-beaten tracks of general historical
                    knowledge. We too often take our students to the granaries into which long-known
                    historical facts have been garnered by other writers and ask them to shovel the
                    piles of grain around from one place to another. We too seldom ask them to do
                    the more vital and productive work of threshing out the wheat from the straw and
                    the chaff, and themselves putting more grain into the granary. And so it is that
                    much of our teaching of history is stale and profitless.
            There is no intention in this to disparage the importance of careful an:!
                    insistent drill in the well-established facts of historical significance. High
                    school and college students alike ought to know more facts., dates and events,
                    and to know them better than they do. But side by side with this historical
                    drill, tliere ought to be given a taste at least of the methods and the joy of
                    creative historical work. Students should be stimulated in the ambition to find
                    out things for themselves. They should be taught to put books and aGthors to the
                    test of accuracy by their own investigations. They should be led to the summit
                    and the end of all true historical teaching, the desire to get at the truth of
                    things by direct, original, first-hand work.
            There is no field open to Indiana students and colleges for this sort of work
                    that is comparable to the field of local history. The equipment of even the
                    largest of our institutions renders difficult  first-class work along this line in European history. There is furthermore
                    the difficulty of having to deal frequently with two or more foreign languages.
                    But even a comparatively small library and meager equipment does not prevent
                    really original work in much of American and especially local history. The
                    student can frequently collect his own material, and this is one of the best
                    parts of the work. We hope that more of our colleges and universities will go
                    into this work. For the publication of the product of the work the pages of this
                    magazine will always be open.
         
         
            NOTES.
            Plans are being made at 
                        Lafayette
                     for the celebration in 1911 of the centennial of the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . Professor Thomas F. Moran, of Purdue University, is chairman of
                    the committee in charge.
            At a special meeting of the Indiana Historical Society on Thursday, December 1,
                    an appropriation of fifty dollars was made by the society toward defraying the
                    expenses connected with the meeting of the American Historical Association and
                    allied societies at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A resolution was also passed urging upon the Legislature the
                    necessity of a new State Library and Museum building.
            At an informal dinner given by the Commercial Club, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to the members of the Indiana Historical Society on the evening of
                    December 9, there was an attendance of thirty-four. Short talks were made by Dr.
                    Wynn, of the Civic Iniprovement Commission of the Commercial Club, D. C. Brown,
                    Harlow Lindley, James A. Woodburn, C. B. Coleman and others. A paper was read by
                    J. P. Dunn which is printed in this number of the quarterly.
            The organization of a local historical society is being agitated at
                            
                  Crawfordsville. Montgomery county
                should maintain an
                    active organization. Those interested should address Professor Charles A.
                    Tuttle, 
                        Wabash
                     College.
         
         
         
            REVIEWS OF BOOKS.
            HISTORY OF INDIANAPOLIS. [By Jacob Piatt Dunn. Illustrated. 2v., pp. 641,
                    616, numbered consecutively 1257. The Lewis Publishing Co., 
                        Chicago
                    . 1910. Sold by subscription only, $25.]
            This work consists, as most county and city histories do, of two distinct parts.
                    Volume I is a history of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , called in the subtitle The Greater 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and volume II is a series of biographical sketches of the
                    "leading citizens." The author, Mr. Dunn, has evidently had
                    nothing whatever to do with volume II. His work as a historian of 
                        Indianapolis
                     must be considered first, and independently of the biographical
                    studies.
            Mr. Dunn's work is called for by the absence of any recent history of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Twenty-five or more years has passed since the appearance of
                    Sulgrove's History of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Marion county
                    . In view of the fact, however, that relatively a good deal about
                    the early history of the city had been already put into book form, Mr. Dunn
                    would have done well to have given a larger part of his work to recent
                    developments and less to early days. In some places, also, Mr. Dunn
                    goes' into lengthy details and occasionally gives space to trifles, but
                    when 641 quarto pages are given to 
                        Indianapolis
                     there is perhaps room for this. The author's genial
                    personality occasionally comes to the surface in interesting but undignified
                    phrases, as in connection with the famous Dudley letter of instructions for the
                    election of 1888 that floaters be organized in blocks of five with a
                    "trusted man with the necessary funds in charge." Mr. Dunn
                    refers to a change of words in the newspaper publication of the letter as made
                    by "some Eastern ass." These are comparatively minor
                    criticisms, however, of a work which is evidently entitled to the highest
                    praise.
            So far as the reviewer has been able to verify statements, Mr. Dunn is accurate
                    in his facts and fair in his inferences. There has been a vast amount of
                    research and investigation in the making of the history. It would not have been
                    a genuine product of its author  if he had
                    not gone fully into disputed questions. The mooted point as to whether George
                    Pogue or John McCormick was the first settler is decided by Mr. Dunn in favor of
                    McCormick in the best treatment of the subject yet published. That history is
                    riot yet an exact science, however, may be seen by the appearance in 1908 of a
                    statement by the honored president of the Indiana Historical Society that
                    Ignatius Brown had "marshalled such an array of evidence as seems to
                    leave little room for further doubt" that George Pogue was the first
                    settler (D. W. Howe. "Making a Capital in the Wilderness,"
                    page 315), and by Mr. Dunn's full discussion ending with the verdict,
                    "the conclusion seems irresistible ∗ ∗
                    ∗ that John McCormick was the first permanent settler"
                    (History of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , I, 45). It ought to be added, however, that Dr. Dunn accepts the
                    tradition that George Pogue's house was the first house built, having
                    been put up in 1819 by one Ute Perkins and abandoned by him but occupied
                    afterwards by George Pogue.
            The one omission of any consequence is the neglect to give any account of
                    organized charity work in the city. The importance and significance of the
                    Charity Organization Society entitles it to con. siderable notice, if not to a
                    chapter by itself. More than offsetting this, is Ah. Dunn's good
                    judgment in omitting much material which wearies the reviewer of most county
                    histories, namely the early history of the North American continent as a whole
                    and the early history of the State. Every local historian in this part of the
                    country either has to take a running start before he jumps into his subject, or
                    else assumes that his reader will doubt the existence of his county unless he
                    ties it back to 
                        Columbus
                     or even to the creation of the world. Mr. Dunn omits all that and
                    starts in with the beginnings of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Not the least merit of the first volume is the style of the narrative. It is
                    clear, vivid and interesting—it makes good reading. There is always a
                    lurking humor even in the account of the most commonplace subjects. What reader
                    is not refreshed in reading about an early insurance company by coming without
                    warning upon this, "It ran along until Childs became infatuated with a
                    young woman and eloped to 
                        Oregon
                    , leaving a wife and a Sunday-school, of which he was
                    superintendent, to mourn his loss" (Volume I, p. 363). Every citizen of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , old or new, will and that he 
                    will get not only a great deal of valuable Information about his city, but a
                    great deal of entertainment in running over the pages of the History of Greater 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            As to the advertising part of the work. the series of autobiographical sketches
                    which comprise volume II, the least said the better. What can be said of
                    publishers who insert a full-page plate of "Pop" June and give
                    us no likeness of Senator Beveridge, Governor Marshall and Vice-president
                    Fairbanks; whose only account of President Harrison is a passing reference under
                    the title of Colonel Russell B. Harrison; who omit entirely such men of the past
                    as George P. julian and such men of this generation as Hugh H.
                    Hanna—what but that they are out to make as much money as possible
                    out of the vanity of cur "prominent citizens." It is
                    surprising how many prominent citizens we have. The reviewer is compelled to
                    confess that, after a residence of some years in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he was not aware that the city possessed such a stock of patriotic
                    soldiers, illustrious doctors, loyal and devoted citizens, remarkable business
                    men, distinguished educators, men who have gained impregnable holds upon popular
                    confidence and esteem, judges whose courses on the bench have been marked by
                    great discrimination, fidelity and judicial acumen so that their official
                    records stand to their perpetual credit, sons who have added laurels to the
                    honored names of fathers, as here give an account of themselves.
         
         
            PAST AND PRESENT OF 
                        TIPPECANOE COUNTY
                    . [By General R. P. De Hart. Illustrated. 2v. B. F. Bowen
                    & Co., 
                        Indianapolis
                    . 1909.]
            Judge De Hart is well qualified to be the historian of 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    . His work is well done. It contains excellent chapters upon the
                    Indian occupancy and the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     (though overloaded with the speeches at the dedication of the
                    Battleground monument), the city of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Purdue University, and various phases of local development. Many
                    of the chapters were written by collaborators of the author, S. Vater, Brainerd
                    Hooker, Alva O. Reser, R. F. Hight, Dr. S. S. Washburn. There is not a great
                    amount of new information in the work, but it is a convenient gathering together
                    of a large mass of information concerning 
                        Tippecanoe
                    
                     county and 
                        Lafayette
                    , and will be of increasing value as the years go on.
            The second volume is the usual eulogistic collection of fulsome biographies,
                    subscription for which makes the county history profitable for the
                publisher.
         
         
            HOME FOLKS. [A Series of Stories by Old Settlers of 
                        Fulton county
                    . Volumes I and II. By Marguerite Miller. Illustrated. 146 and 105
                    pages respectively. Published by the author, 
                        Rochester
                    , Indiana. No date.]
            These booklets are made up of stories of the personal experiences of pioneers of 
                        Fulton county
                    . They were originally written for the 
                  
                            Rochester
                         Republican, and as an afterthought published in book form.
                    The demand for them was so great that most of the copies were sold immediately
                    upon publication. Miss Miller is to be congratulated upon her success in getting
                    these stories and in putting them into such form as to bring them before the
                    people. As far as possible, she has given the words of the pioneers themselves,
                    preserving the originality and the individuality of the narratars. The stories
                    make very interesting reading and add a good deal to our store of knowledge in
                    regard to early schools, roads, conditions prevailing before the Civil War, and
                    genealogy. The photographs published with the stories are also of interest and
                    value. It is to be hoped that Miss Miller will continue her work, as her
                    interview with Mrs. James Smith, age ninety-eight, published in the 
                  
                            Rochester
                         Republican of October 13, 1910, gives promise she will. It
                    is to be hoped also that copies of these books will be preserved, even though
                    they are bound in paper, as there are many things of value in them. If other
                    volumes are published, it would be well worth while to give them a full table of
                    contents and an index.
         
         
            THE 
                        ILLINOIS COUNTRY
                    —1763–1774. [Clarence Edwin Carter, A.
                    M., Ph. D., Assistant Professor of History in 
                        Illinois
                     College. 223 pp. Published by The American Historical Association, 
                        Washington
                    . 1910. $1.50; to members of the Association,
                    $1.00.]
            
            This account of the 
                        Illinois
                     country under English control, though not bearing directly upon
                    Indiana history, touches it at so many points and contributes so much to the
                    correct understanding of conditions in Indiana settlements also that it is to be
                    looked upon as a valuable addition to the history of this State. The worth of
                    the monograph is attested by its receiving the Justin Winsor prize in 1908 for
                    the best essay in American history submitted to the American Historical
                    Association in the contest that year. It is a thoroughly scientific treatment of
                    the subject, based upon a personal investigation of practically all the
                    accessible original material, manuscript as well as printed. Perhaps the most
                    important facts brought to light for the first time are those concerning the
                    proposed establishment of a separate English colony in the northwest between
                    1763 and 1768, in which Benjamin Franklin and other prominent men were
                    interested. Trade conditions and contests for trade are also for the first time
                    described in a full and satisfactory manner.
         
      
      
         
      
   
