
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 54, Issue 3, pages 211-312. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:54+issue:3+year:1958&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            "Red Special": Eugene V. Debs and the Campaign of 1908
            H. Wayne Morgan*
            
            The days when American socialists counted their sympathizers in hundreds of thousands are gone, and
                    many students and historians are unaware that fifty years ago the Socialist Party of America was a
                    power to be reckoned with in presidential elections. The history books that extol the campaign
                    exploits of William Jennings Bryan, Theodore Roosevelt, and Woodrow Wilson often fail to record that
                    the most famous American socialist, Eugene Victor Debs, waged five presidential campaigns between
                    1900 and 1920. None of these campaigns was more colorful than that of 1908, the year of the
                    "Red Special." Preserved in song and poem, as well as in the fading memories of
                    participants and bystanders, the Socialist party's campaign of that year illustrated the
                    vigor of the organization and the amount of effort which Socialists could pour into a national
                    campaign.
            By 1908, the Socialist Party of America had made considerable progress toward fulfilling the promise
                    it had shown in the presidential election of 1904. It could now claim its place as the third party
                    of American politics, a position it had taken from the Prohibitionists in 1904. Politically, the
                    Socialists were gaining strength on local levels. In 
                        Milwaukee
                    , one of their strongholds, they had come close to capturing the mayor's office
                    in 1906 and had used their influence with 
                  
                     * H. Wayne Morgan is John Randolph and Dora E. Haynes
                            Fellow for 1958-1959 at the University of 
                                California
                             at 
                                Los Angeles
                            , where he has served as teaching assistant in the Department of History.
                            Research for this article? however, was done at the Claremont Graduate School,
                                    
                        Claremont, California
                     .
               
                     the voters to force the parties in power to improve municipal
                    services, public transportation, and to assist other reform groups in combating corruption in local
                        politics.1 The 
                        Wisconsin
                     Socialists had also elected some of their number to the state legislature and to the 
                        Milwaukee city
                     council.2 Elsewhere, Socialists had shown growing strength in
                            
                  New York, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania
               ,
                    and in various areas in the Midwest.
            In addition to devoting a great deal of time, energy, and strength to waging electoral contests, the
                    Socialists continued their work in the labor movement. They acted as an ever-present irritant to
                    conservative leadership in the American Federation of Labor, which feared the Socialists'
                    tactics of "boring from within." Furthermore, several prominent Socialists, among
                    them the nationally known and influential Eugene V. Debs, helped found the radical Industrial
                    Workers of the World in 1905.4 The I.W.W. was especially dedicated to organizing
                    the "unorganizable" workers in the mines, mills, and lumber camps of the country,
                    and the A.F. of L. quite rightly looked upon it as a rival. Particularly in the West, the I.W.W.
                    acquired a radical tone that caused it to be tarred with the brush of anarcho-syndicalism, and it
                    quickly became anathema to other labor unions and labor leaders.
            In addition to political action and work with organized labor, the Socialists by 1908 had begun what
                    promised to be a substantial program for the farmers of the West and Midwest.5
                    Socialism was more and more becoming a topic of serious conversation in the middle-class drawing
                    room, the 
                  
                     1 Robert Hunter, "The Socialist Party in the Present
                            Campaign," American Review of Reviews, XXXVIII (September, 1908),
                            295-296.
                  
                     2 By 1908, there were 6 Socialists in the 
                                Wisconsin
                             legislature and 12 Socialists on the 
                                Milwaukee city
                             council. A total of 48 Socialists held elective office in the state as a whole.
                            Roland Phillips, "Unfurling the Red Flag," Harper's
                                Weekly, LII (September 26, 1908), 14.
                  
                     3 See Ibid., and "Socialism in the 
                                New York
                             Campaign," Outlook, LXXXIV (November 3, 1906),
                            541-542.
                  
                     4 See Debs' speech in Proceedings of the First
                                National Convention of the Industrial Workers of the World (
                                New York
                            , 1905), 142-147.
                  
                     5 Ray Ginger, The Bending Cross: A Biography of Eugene
                                Victor Debs (
                                New Brunswick
                            , N.J. 1949), 269-270; Grady McWhiney, "
                                Louisiana
                             Socialists in the Early Twentieth Century: A Study of Rustic
                            Radicalism," Journal of Southern History, XX (August, 1954),
                            315-336; Oscar Ameringer, // You Don't Weaken (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 255-267.
               
                     scholar's den, and the church pulpit.6 A rising quantity of literature favorable to the theory of socialism, often written by
                    nonsocialists, paid tribute to socialism's place in the progressive movement that dominated
                    American political and social life between 1901 and 1909.7
            
            Though their growing strength seemed substantial, the Socialists posed no immediate threat to the
                    political control of the two older parties; but they stood as a reminder that they were perhaps only
                    the first expression of a much larger potential. The Socialists who were elected to public office
                    were usually moderates pledged to political reform rather than to revolution. They usually seemed
                    content to work for a more distant socialistic utopia. Their propaganda not only contributed to
                    their own success but in some areas, such as 
                        Wisconsin
                    , also acted as a reform lever against the older parties in power.
            The delegates who converged on 
                        Chicago
                     in May, 1908 for the Socialist party convention had reason to be cheerful, for they
                    represented a party whose prospects had greatly improved since the national convention of 1904. They
                    spoke for more than 40,000 dues paying members, twice as many as in 1904, and represented an
                    organization that was divided into approximately 3,000 locals in nearly every state and territory in
                    the Union. The dues and contributions paid into the national headquarters supported a propaganda
                    program that operated day and night to spread the message of socialism. A number of full time paid
                    organizers, as well as an estimated 4,000 volunteer stump speakers, were in the field the year
                    around on behalf of socialism. More than 100 weekly newspapers were pro-Socialist, and the party
                    boasted that its newspapers in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        New York
                     alone served more than 70,000 readers.8 The Appeal to Reason,
                    always a favorite among Socialists, reported an average circulation of 350,000 copies per issue; and
                        Wilshire's Magazine sold 270,000 copies 
                  
                     6 See Ernest Poole, "Harnessing Socialism," American Magazine, LXVI, (September, 1908), 427-432; Upton B. Sinclair,
                            "The Socialist Party, World's Work, XI (April, 1906),
                            7431-7432; "Why I Left the Ministry for Socialist Propaganda,"
                            Independent, LVIII (June 8, 1905), 1284-1288; James T. Van Renssalaer, "The
                            Identity of Socialism and Christianity," Arena, XXXIV (July,
                            1905), 39-44; J. O. Bentall, "Why I am a Christian Socialist," Ibid., XXXVIII (June, 1907), 600-604.
                  
                     7 David A. Shannon, "The Socialist Party Before the First
                            World War: An Analysis," Mississippi Valley Historical Review,
                            XXXVIII (September, 1951), 279-288.
                  
                     8 Robert Hunter, "The Socialist Party in the Present
                            Campaign," American Review of Reviews, XXXVIII (September, 1908),
                            293-299.
               
                     every month.9 In other cities, Socialist
                    and pro-Socialist newspapers reported rising circulation figures.10
            
            Only seven years had passed since the formation of the unified Socialist Party of America, but the
                    membership had already undergone striking changes. These changes were reflected by the delegates who
                    came to 
                        Chicago
                     in 1908 to attend to party business and to nominate a presidential ticket. Most of the
                    founders of the party had been young people engaged in radical pursuits within journalism,
                    lecturing, labor organizing, and the professions.11 Many of their successors at the convention of
                    1908 bore testimony to the growing strength of the "parlor socialists" within the
                    party, those Socialists who were willing to reform rather than to revolt. Their watchword was
                    orderly evolution toward state socialism; they rejected the class struggle and the need for social
                    revolution. They were usually ministers, lawyers, writers, professors, and small businessmen.12
            
            These "Slowcialists," as their more radical comrades called them, were opposed
                    within the party by a radical left wing and by a group of centrists, who hoped to avoid violence but
                    who called for a more forthright socialism. The more radical labor organizers, lecturers,
                    journalists, and a few national figures like Eugene V. Debs either belonged openly to the radical
                    group or flirted with it. The organization of the I.W.W. by this group in 1905 and their continued
                    talk of social revolution and labor violence alarmed the right wing of the party, and by 1908 lines
                    were drawn between the groups for a struggle over policy making organs and for control of the party
                        machinery.13
            
            
               
                  9 The figures are taken from N. W. Ayers and Son's American Newspaper Annual (Philadelhia, 1908), 293, 615. The Appeal to
                            Reason was published in 
                     Girard, Kansas
                  , and served a large midwestern and
                        western audience. Wilshire's Magazine was then published in 
                            New York
                         City. Many labor and independent newspapers carried a great deal of material
                        favorable to the Socialists.
               
                  10 David A. Shannon, "The Socialist Party Before the First World
                        War: An Analysis," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, XXXVIII (September, 1951), 279-288.
               
                  11 Ira Kipnis, "The American Socialist Movement
                        1897-1912," (
                            New York
                        , 1952), 81-106.
               
                  12 Robert Hoxie, "The Convention of the Socialist
                        Party," Journal of Political Economy, XVI (July, 1908), 442-450;
                        Charlotte Teller, "The National Socialist Convention," Arena, XL (July, 1908),
                        26-39. One reason for the lack of worker delegates may have been the fact that the party did not
                        pay the delegates' living expenses.
               
                  13 The author has adopted Ira Kipnis' denomination of the
                        factions, which were actually more numerous, but which for convenience sake, may be accurately
                        studied within the three groups described above. See Kipnis, The American Socialist Movement,
                        164-213.
            
            
            The dragon's teeth of intra-party conflict had been sown long before 1908, and it was
                    evident to all who went to 
                        Chicago
                     that struggle would be the watchword of the day. Dissension quickly appeared in the
                    debates over the party's official attitude toward organized labor and in the preliminary
                    skirmishes over drafting a platform for the coming national campaign. The left wing delegates wanted
                    open condemnation of the A.F. of L. policies of cooperation with management, a strong call for
                    organized labor's political support in the coming campaign, and official recognition of the
                    I.W.W. On the other hand, the right wing demanded that a conciliatory tone be adopted. The result
                    was a compromise resolution which called on labor to vote the Socialist ticket and a general
                    statement on the importance of organized labor.14
            
            Factionalism again reared its head when nominations for president and vice-president were in order.
                    Eugene V. Debs had borne the Socialist standard in 1900 and 1904, and it was inevitable that his
                    name would be placed in nomination again. No figure within the Socialist movement was more widely
                    known and loved than Debs, and the cheers that greeted his nomination were a tribute to his past
                    work for the party. Once the cheers died down, John Spargo of 
                        New York
                    , a conservative, rose to second the nomination but in doing so alluded to
                    Debs' rumored poor health and his "mistakes" in past campaigns.15 When Spargo finished it looked as though the right and center wings might be
                    able to combine and prevent Debs' nomination. Many delegates had heard rumors about
                    Debs' health and wondered if he was able to conduct another grueling national campaign.
                    Seymour Stedman of 
                        Chicago
                     rose and braved a chorus of boos and hisses from Debs' loyal supporters to
                    place in nomination the name of Algie Martin Simons, a well known moderate and a prominent
                        journalist.16
            
            At this point, while the convention hall buzzed with excitement and speculation, the slight figure of
                    Benjamin Hanford rose in the 
                        New York
                     delegation, waving a piece of paper. Hanford was the beloved creator of
                    "Jimmie Higgins," the journalistic symbol of the Socialist rank and file who
                    worked day and night for the socialist commonwealth. When 
                  
                     14 Socialist Party, Proceedings of the National
                                Convention of 1908 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), 93-102.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 147-148.
                  
                     16.
                            Ibid., 148-160.
               
                     the delegates quieted, Hanford revealed that the paper was a
                    letter from Debs. Whatever doubts the delegates may have had faded as Hanford read the letter.
                    "My general health is about all that could be desired", Debs wrote. "So
                    far as strength is concerned, I never had more to my credit, if as much."17 The letter ended with a pledge of support for whomever received the nomination and a tacit
                    invitation for the nomination. "You need have no fear that I shall shirk my part in the
                    coming campaign. I shall be in good condition, and I hope there will be no good ground for complaint
                    when the fight is over."18 The letter did not prevent further
                    nominations, but Debs' assurances that he was well and physically able to conduct another
                    national campaign, together with his great support among the rank and file Socialists, assured his
                    nomination. The first ballot gave him 159 of the 198 votes cast.19 Hanford was
                    nominated for the vice presidency and after a long wrangle the convention adopted a compromise
                    platform and adjourned, anxious to begin the groundwork for the campaign.20
            
            Few people were surprised when Debs received his third successive presidential nomination. No other
                    Socialist commanded the audience and respect accorded Eugene Victor Debs. He had been a member of
                    the Socialist Party of America since its founding in 1901; and prior to that time, he had engaged in
                    Socialist politics in the old Social Democratic party. He had come to socialism with a national
                    reputation gained from his work in organized labor before the turn of the century. Born in Indiana
                    in 1855, Debs had grown up believing that labor unions could be used as tools of social progress. At
                    an early age he began work as a labor organizer and gained substantial recognition when he founded
                    the American Railway Union in 1893. It was an industrial union and Debs championed industry-wide
                    unionization throughout his long career.
            Debs attained national prominence when the American Railway Union joined the Pullman strikers in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1894. Debs was found guilty of violating court injunctions during the strike and
                    served a jail term. When he emerged from jail he was a changed man, and shortly thereafter he
                    actively 
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 151.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 152.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 161.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 161-164. 320-323.
               
                     joined the Socialists, using his prestige and talents to
                    champion their cause. In 1900 he ran as the presidential candidate of the Social Democratic party
                    and polled almost a hundred thousand votes. Four years later he quadrupled that vote as the
                    candidate of the unified Socialist Party of America. He was eminently successful as a propagandizer
                    and agitator and was quickly recognized as one of the prophets of American socialism. He wrote much
                    and campaigned perpetually, lecturing to large audiences all over the country the year around. His
                    studied efforts to avoid entanglement in party factionalism were not always successful; though he
                    considered himself a radical Socialist, he retained his popularity with almost all the factions
                    within the party and especially with the rank and file party members and sympathizers throughout the
                    country.
            Ever anxious to avoid quarrels with his comrades, Debs had gone to 
                  Girard, Kansas
               , to write
                    copy for the Appeal to Reason while the convention was in session; he received the
                    news of his nomination while working in the cramped editorial offices there. He began his campaign
                    at once. Fred Warren, an Appeal staff member, suggested that he and Debs take a
                    walk to the town square, where a "carnival" was in progress. Anxious for a little
                    exercise, Debs agreed. The "carnival" turned out to be a crowd waiting for Debs.
                    Though somewhat surprised at 
                        Warren
                    's little subterfuge, Debs launched into a characteristic biting attack on
                    capitalism which set the tone of his whole campaign. He told the assembled farmers and townspeople
                    that he hated capitalism because it was "a system in which labor is simply merchandise; in
                    which the man who works the hardest and longest has the least to show for it."21 To him the eternal question was the many versus the few, of want versus
                    plenty; and he blamed all evil 011 capitalism. Unemployment and idle factories reminded voters in
                    1908 of the Panic of 1907, and Debs exploited this theme to the fullest. "Nothing is more
                    humiliating than to have to beg for work," he told his Girard audience, "and a
                    system in which any man has to beg for work stands condemned. No man can defend it."22 He ended with an appeal for organized labor's support, in which he
                    also vigorously expressed hope that the farmers 
                  
                     21 Eugene V. Debs, "The Issue," reprinted in The
                            Writings and Speeches of Eugene V. Debs (
                                New York
                            , 1948), 298. 22.
                  
                     22.
                            Ibid., 299.
               
                     would support him and asked his audience to join him in his
                    attack on capitalistic society. "Progress is born of agitation. It is agitation or
                    stagnation. I have taken my choice."23
            
            The response from the crowd was electric, proving that Debs could still hold a crowd as no other
                    Socialist could. A recent throat operation had sparked the rumors that he was in poor health, but
                    there was little evidence of illness in his first speech. At the beginning of his career, Debs had
                    been considered an indifferent orator. Julius Wayland, the peppery publisher of the Appeal to
                    Reason, had thought him only average; Art Young, famous radical cartoonist, had compared him to a
                    schoolboy elocutionist.24 By 1908, his two previous presidential campaigns and
                    his perpetual speaking tours on behalf of a multitude of causes had had their effect, and he was
                    considered one of the most effective orators in national life. There was little variety in the
                    content of his speeches but he combined the drama of radicalism, the verve of appeal, and flair for
                    the dramatic into vivid words and gestures that indelibly impressed the minds of his audiences.
            A few weeks after Debs' speech at Girard, which opened his own campaign, the Republicans
                    held their national convention in 
                        Chicago
                    . President Roosevelt had assured the country after his election in 1904 that he would
                    not seek another term; and in 1908 he advanced his Secretary of War, the genial and well-known
                    William Howard Taft, for the Republican nomination. With Roosevelt's backing, Taft was
                    easily nominated on a platform that extolled the reform program of the Roosevelt administration and
                    which promised four more years of liberal Republicanism under Taft.25 Though
                    Taft himself was considerably more cautious in his public statements than Roosevelt would have
                    desired, he had the President's full support throughout the campaign.
            In July, the Democrats congregated at 
                        Denver
                     to nominate their favorite son, William Jennings Bryan, for a third 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 304.
                  
                     24 Ginger, The Bending Cross, 265; Arthur Young, Art Young: His Life and Times (
                                New York
                            , 1939), 216.
                  
                     25 A discussion of the candidates and issues of the campaign of 1908
                            can be found conveniently in Eugene Roseboom, A History of Presidential
                                Elections (
                                New York
                            , 1957), 347-355. The Taft campaign can be traced in Henry F. Pringle, The Life and Times of William Howard Taft (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1939), I, 358-378. Taft's campaign speeches are collected in William
                            Howard Taft, Political Issues and Outlooks (
                                New York
                            , 1909).
               
                     time. Though balder and more paunchy than in his golden days,
                    Bryan still championed the common man, organized labor, the farmers, and spoke for a variety of
                    political liberals and reformers. Though he had twice failed to attain the presidency, he was still
                    the most prominent and powerful Democrat in the country. The Democratic platform called for a
                    variety of reforms, condemned the slowness of Republican reform, and in general was a more liberal
                    document than the Republican platform.26 The campaign promised to be a battle
                    between personalities and between reform programs.
            While the Republicans and Democrats were nominating their candidates and drafting their platforms,
                    the Socialists were busily organizing their campaign. Once the ice was broken, the campaign
                    developed rapidly and it soon became apparent that there would be little rest for Debs until
                    election day. Though he had said he would rather write than speak during the campaign, once
                    nominated he entered the fray with all his strength. By late summer he was speaking several times a
                    day in 
                        New York
                     and other eastern cities. Though admission was charged at his speeches in order to
                    defray campaign costs, he generally spoke to packed houses. Everywhere his speeches inspired scenes
                    of adulation and the receptions accorded him were often idolatrous. While he was trying to quiet a
                    crowd in 
                        New York
                     City, a young woman jumped to her feet and cried out that Eugene Debs was "the
                    living and not the missing link between God and man."27 No matter how
                    large the audience, the listener felt that he was being addressed personally when Debs'
                    long, bony forefinger shot out and waggled up and down to emphasize a point, or when his fist
                    smashed into his open palm. The watcher felt himself electrically identified with Debs'
                    torrential eloquence as the tall, lanky, balding speaker strode back and forth across the platform,
                    his voice alternately scornful and soothing, rousing and hopeful, ironic and biting. He never spared
                    his opponents, but his audiences were never overcome by a sense of hatred or by a feeling that Debs
                    employed vilification for its own sake since even his hardest 
                  
                     26 Bryan's stand on the issues of the day in 1908 can be
                            found in William Jennings Bryan, The Commoner Condensed (7 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1902-1908), VII.
                  
                     27 "Debs—the ‘Living Link,’
                            " Current Literature, XLV (July, 1908), 36-39.
               
                     words were softened by his sentimental belief in the basic
                    goodness of man, a belief that shaped his whole career. His quarrel was not with men but with the
                    economic and social system that corrupted them. "When Debs speaks a harsh word,"
                    one of his admirers said, "it is wet with tears."28
            
            The flurry of activity around the Socialist campaign and the apparent success of Debs'
                    speeches aroused the interest and curiosity of Lincoln Steffens, veteran journalist and muckraker.
                    He asked Debs for an interview in order to question him about his own and the Socialist
                    party's stand on the issues of the day. He met Debs in 
                        Milwaukee
                     after attending a Socialist picnic at which he estimated that twenty five thousand
                    people had bought admission tickets to hear Debs give a rousing speech. Steffens, Debs, and Victor
                    Berger, who was a veteran 
                        Milwaukee
                     Socialist and a leading conservative in the party, went to the latter's home
                    for the interview when the picnic was over. Debs gave some forthright answers to Steffens'
                    questions. Asked what he would do with the trusts, he shrugged his shoulders and replied that he
                    would simply confiscate them without compensation to the owners on the grounds that the original
                    investments had long since been repaid. Berger was instantly on his feet. "No. No, you
                    wouldn't. Not if I was there," he snapped at Debs. "And you shall not say
                    it for the party. It is my party as much as it is your party, and I answer that we would offer to
                        pay."29
            
            If Debs and Berger disagreed on the question of confiscation of the trusts, they at least agreed that
                    once capitalism was uprooted mankind could enter into an age of limitless progress. Berger too
                    blamed all evils on the capitalistic system, but he employed softer language than Debs and was
                    anxious to avoid violence. He agreed with Debs who argued that the trust owner, like the
                    improverished worker, was only a product of the capitalistic system and that once the trusts were
                    nationalized and operated for the benefit of all the people they would cease to be an evil.30
            
            The interchange between "the Bear," as Berger was called by his comrades, and the
                    more radical Debs must have amused 
                  
                     28 "The Surprising Campaign of Mr. Debs," Ibid., XLV
                            (November, 1908), 483.
                  
                     29 Lincoln Steffens, "Eugene V. Debs on What the Matter Is In
                            America and What To Do About It, Everybody's Magazine, XIX (October, 1908),
                            455-469.
                  
                     30 Ibid., 462.
               
                     Steffens, who had observed more than one reformer at close
                    range. The argument between the two Socialists highlighted the differences between the wings of the
                    party. Berger insisted that the revolution was "coming every day" and that the
                    socialist commonwealth could be established without violence. He and the conservatives for whom he
                    spoke were anxious to hold political office in an effort to enact their set of "immediate
                    demands" and were often willing to cooperate with other reform elements in order to obtain
                    half the Socialist loaf. They feared that the work of the radical Socialists in the labor unions
                    would weaken the party's appeal to the "respectable" reform element. They
                    were content with evolution rather than revolution. "Next year, or ten years, or twenty
                    years, or a hundred years from now, we shall perhaps still be working toward the completing of our
                    civilization— toward Socialism," Berger told the delegates to the national
                        convention.31 His conservative supporters could only nod in agreement.
            Debs had as much faith in the coming cooperative commonwealth as any Socialist, but he had less time.
                    He felt that organized labor and political agitation were the keys to the Socialist kingdom. There
                    was often a wide gulf between Debs' public statements and his private actions. In reality,
                    he was no more fond of violence than Berger, regardless of his sharp tongue and tall words, and he
                    too hoped that the revolution could be avoided by educating the public in Socialist doctrine. He
                    insisted, however, that American socialism would fail unless it was truly socialistic with its base
                    on the working class rather than on the middle class. He watched the growing power of the
                    conservatives within the party with alarm, and he undertook another exhausting national campaign in
                    part to counter these conservative tendencies. To Berger's question "Did you ever
                    see an impossibilist do something?"32 Debs could answer that he
                    had—at the Pullman barns in 1894, in his many tours of the West, and in his daily
                    contacts with the people.
            Steffens commented frankly that Debs did not seem to be presidential timber, and the Socialist
                    candidate readily agreed. He answered that he campaigned for propaganda purposes, 
                  
                     31 Socialist Party, Proceedings of the National
                                Convention of 1908, 227.
                  
                            32
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     not for office, and that when Socialism's day came he
                    would step aside in favor of a more qualified man. Debs realized as much as anyone else that he was
                    the evangelist of American socialism, not the thinker or practical politician. He agitated frankly
                    and used every means at his command to spread the Socialist gospel. He never burdened his audiences
                    with theories or abstractions, preferring to hammer home epigrams that remained embedded in his
                    listeners' memories. He preferred to speak and write in idioms and metaphors that the
                    people at large could understand, that made socialism's message live for them. One of his
                    friends once told Debs that he simply could not accept some of the wild things that he often said.
                    Debs replied, "Well, you have to give the workingmen something vigorous if you want to wake
                    them up."33 Steffens left 
                        Milwaukee
                     apparently satisfied that the Socialists had nominated a qualified man to carry their
                    standard, for he later wrote Brand Whitlock urging him to vote for Debs even though he had no chance
                    of winning.34
            
            While Debs was touring the Midwest and East, speaking at rallies, picnics, parks, giving interviews,
                    and writing material for the Socialist press, his campaign manager, J. Mahlon Barnes, had a
                    brainstorm. Why not rent a train and outfit it as a moving campaign headquarters? Debs could ride
                    across the country speaking in every city and at every crossroads. What better way to advertise
                    socialism and to reflect its growth as a national political force? Though most conservative
                    Socialists were skeptical, Bill Haywood, Debs, and others set to work raising the necessary funds.
                    It was estimated that such a train would cost $20,000; it ultimately cost
                        $35,000.35 Haywood conducted a series of huge meetings, asking
                    for contributions; a corps of lesser Socialists went fund gathering and before long enough money was
                    available at least to launch the "Red Special," as the train was immediately
                    dubbed.
            
               
                        Chicago
                    's La Salle Street station was treated to a rare spectacle when the Red Special
                    headed west on the morning 
                  
                     33 Quoted in Ginger, The Bending Cross, 254-255.
                  
                     34 Lincoln Steffens to Brand Whitlock, October 20, 1908; in Ella
                            Winters and Granville Hicks (eds.), The Letters of Lincoln Steffens, (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1938), I, 209-211.
                  
                     35 Kipnis, The American Socialist Movement, 212;
                            Ginger, The Bending Cross, 269.
               
                     of August 31, 1908. A large crowd came to see Debs and his
                    party off and waved enthusiastically as the train departed with its red flags, bunting, and
                    streamers flapping in the breeze. Later that evening the train stopped in 
                  Davenport, Iowa
               , where Debs spoke to a large crowd.36 At each stop
                    local Socialists and well-wishers swarmed aboard, stumbling over piles of literature, boxes of
                    buttons and red flags, all eager to shake Debs' hand and to pledge their support for the
                    campaign. Though it seemed necessary to greet such party workers and admirers, they proved an
                    immense drain on Debs' time and strength. Often exhausted after a series of speeches, he
                    would sink down in his chair, loosen his collar, and smile weakly after shaking their hands, trying
                    to say as little as possible in order to spare his throat for the next speech. The train consisted
                    of an engine, a combination sleeper and diner in which Debs, his brother Theodore, and their
                    assistants somehow had to eat, sleep, and work, as well as a baggage car stuffed to the top with all
                    kinds of Socialist literature. A brass band provided music when the train pulled into a station.37
            
            Even before the train was underway, Debs took note of the enthusiasm that greeted his speeches and
                    was sure that this was the year of promise for American socialism. "The meetings out here
                    are big as all outdoors and red hot with enthusiasm," he wrote from 
                        Kansas
                     a week before launching the Red Special. "The ‘Red
                    Special’ is trump. The people are wild about it and the road will be lined with the
                    cheering hosts of the proletarian revolution."38
            
            Moving across the Midwest and West, Debs made a series of hard-hitting speeches to audiences of
                    farmers, workers, and miners. In 
                        Colorado
                     he spoke to large crowds of miners who had not forgotten his long affiliation with
                    organized labor. More than eighteen hundred people, half the population, jammed the largest hall in
                    Grand Junction, 
                        Colorado
                    , to hear Debs flay capitalism. The Red Special band gave a concert, and 
                        Buffalo
                     Bill called on Debs after the speech to pay his 
                  
                     36 McAlister Coleman, Eugene V. Debs: A Man Unafraid (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 245; Ginger, The Bending Cross, 274.
                  
                     37 Coleman, Eugene V. Debs, 245-248; Ginger, The Bending Cross, 274; David Karsner, Debs: His Authorized
                                Life and Letters From Woodstock Prison to 
                                    Atlanta
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1919), 191.
                  
                     38 Karsner, Debs, 191-192.
               
                     respects. In 
                  Leadville, Colorado
               , an
                    estimated two thousand people stood in the streets to hear Debs talk.39
            
            The meetings on the West Coast surpassed even those of the Midwest. In 
                        Los Angeles
                     on a hot September night, Debs addressed a sweating but enthusiastic crowd that filled
                    the Shrine Auditorium. In the course of the speech he condemned practically everyone and everything
                    in sight—capitalism, Republicans, Democrats, Roosevelt, politicians—and called
                    on his audience to adopt socialism. The 
                        Los Angeles
                    
                    Times reporter sitting in the audience was unimpressed by Debs' logic but
                    admired his flair for the dramatic. "Debs has a face that looks like a death's
                    head. … As the arch ‘Red’ talked he was bent at the hips like an
                    old, old man, his eerie face peering up and out at the audience like an old necromancer reading a
                        charm."40 Others in 
                        Los Angeles
                     were anxious to have Debs depart, fearing that his words would fall on fertile ground,
                    however doubtful his logic. "He teaches [people] and teaches them wrong-possibly with
                    malice; possibly because he too is a dreamer," wrote one Times staff
                    member."
            Farther north Debs was refused the use of 
                        Stanford
                     University's famous chapel, which did not surprise him when he reflected on
                    the manner in which Leland Stanford had accumulated his fortune.42 In Berkeley,
                    he spoke in the Greek Theatre on the campus of the University of 
                        California
                    . Since the theater had already been used by one minor party candidate, the university
                    administration raised no objection.43 The university officials would not allow
                    the Socialists to charge admission, however, so large dinner pails were set up at the entrances and
                    exits into which the audience dropped contributions. Debs entered to the strains of the Marseillaise and delivered a rousing speech to the assembled students and curiosity
                    seekers. After the speech, the president of the university, Benjamin Ide Wheeler, shook hands with
                        Debs.44
            
            Debs spoke to a large crowd in the railroad station at 
                  Ashland, Oregon
               . Later that
                    evening he addressed an estimated 
                  
                     39
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Socialist, September 19, 1908.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Los Angeles
                            
                            Times, September 11, 1908.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., September 13, 1908.
                  
                     42. Floy Ruth Painter, That Man Debs and His Life
                            Work (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1929), 96; Karsner, Debs, 197.
                  
                     43 Berkeley Gazette, September 9, 1908.
                  
                     44 [Berkeley] Daily Californian, September 14,
                        1908.
               
                     two thousand people at 
                        Medford
                     and moved on to 
                        Portland
                    , where he was refused the use of the city armory for a rally.45 In
                            
                  Spokane, Washington
               , three thousand people were waiting for him at the railroad
                    station and a larger number paid admission that night to hear him speak.46
            
            By this time the party on the Red Special had run out of funds and the train was threatened with
                    being stranded on the West Coast. Debs called a meeting and decided that they would somehow have to
                    continue. Edward Lewis of 
                        Portland
                     offered to make a quick trip selling literature and guaranteed a return of eight
                    hundred dollars. Appeals to the rank and file brought a flood of nickels and dimes into the national
                    headquarters. Contributions were taken at the larger rallies and support from a few wealthy
                    sympathizers in the East saved the day. The Red Special was able to continue its journey.47
            
            Debs' throat, a major cause of concern among those around him, began to bother him more and
                    more. The incessant speaking kept his throat raw; and the pressure of greetings, tours, and
                    appearances, plus the fact that he often got out of bed in the middle of the night to greet crowds,
                    drained his strength and prevented his recuperation. Sometimes his voice failed him completely in
                    the middle of a speech, and the audience waited patiently while one of the Red Special crew carried
                    on until Debs could finish hoarsely. At many of the smaller stops, Debs' younger brother
                    Theodore, who resembled him a great deal, secretly substituted for the exhausted candidate. The
                    relief afforded by these and other measures restored much of Debs' strength and he was able
                    to finish the western tour on schedule.48
            
            The Red Special left the West Coast and rolled toward the Midwest, facing an ambitious schedule in
                    the population centers east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Late in September the train was back in 
                        Chicago
                    , its western tour completed. Debs had travelled 9,000 miles, made 187 speeches in 25
                    days in the Far West, and had spoken in every western state and territory.49
                    
                  
                     45
                            
                                Los Angeles
                            
                            Times, September 14, 1908.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., September 16, 1908; Ginger, The Bending Cross,
                            276-277.
                  
                     47 Karsner, Debs, 197; Coleman, Eugene
                                V. Debs, 245.
                  
                     48 Coleman, Eugene V. Debs, 246.
                  
                     49 The Socialist Party's Campaign," The
                                Public, XI (October 2, 1908), 635.
               
                     He had addressed an estimated 275,000 people.50 On September 28, the train was met by a crowd in 
                  Toledo, Ohio
               . Mayor Brand Whitlock,
                    close friend of many reformers of the day and a famous municipal reformer himself, was in the crowd
                    and seemed delighted to see Debs. He dropped five dollars into the collection hat as it passed him.
                    He marched with Debs later in a labor parade. Later that evening, 2,000 spectators heard Debs
                    lambast the masters of capital.51
            
            Increased interest of the farmer in Socialist politics had been noted and as the campaign developed
                    in the Midwest and Southwest, Debs tailored more and more of his speeches for farm audiences. The
                    Red Special combined the virtues of glamour, novelty, and practicality which appealed greatly to
                    isolated farm families. As the train pulled into a rural station or paused momentarily at a country
                    crossroads lined with buggies and wagons, red flags were put out, the band began to play a rousing
                    Socialist song, and members of the crew circulated in the crowd selling pictures, buttons, flags,
                    and literature.52 The whole idea, from the train itself to the glamour and
                    publicity that accompanied its progress, was "trump" and had been partly designed
                    to appeal to the spectacle loving, isolated farm families who might be inclined to support Debs. The
                    whole Socialist campaign of 1908 revealed a growing understanding of mass psychology and campaign
                    techniques.
            Socialist organizers in the South and Midwest had prepared a special program for the farmers, the
                    farm encampment. Tent villages were set up and farmers from the surrounding countryside were invited
                    to attend a combination Sunday school, picnic, revival meeting, and Socialist indoctrination course.
                    The farmers drove into the encampments in their buggies and wagons, each flying a red flag from the
                    whip holder, and participated in meetings that lasted for days and often weeks. Local merchants,
                    anticipating increased business, sometimes helped finance such encampments. When Oscar Ameringer,
                    veteran Socialist organizer and newspaperman, 
                  
                     60
                            Appeal to Reason, October 10, 1908.
                  
                     51 Brand Whitlock to Bernard Dailey, September 28, 1908, in Allan
                            Nevins (ed.), The Letters of Byand Whitlock (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 96; Karsner, Debs, 197.
                  
                     52 See the photograph on page 295 in The Writings and
                                Speeches of Eugene V. Debs.
                  
               
                     and his three sons were available, culture invaded the
                    encampments in the form of a brass quartet (two trumpets, a tuba, and a French horn) that played the
                    music of Bach, Mozart, Wagner, and Stephen Foster, after short talks on the pleasures of music
                    delivered by Ameringer. Debs spoke at many such encampments during the campaign of 1908 and was
                    often reunited with former members of the American Railway Union who had turned to farming after
                    being blacklisted when the union was broken after the Pullman strike.65
            
            Debs and the Red Special moved east. In 
                        Boston
                     he marched at the head of a ten block long parade to Faneuil Hall, which was packed
                    with an expectant crowd. An overflow meeting was conducted on the sidewalks outside the hall to
                    accommodate those who could not get in.54 In 
                        Providence
                    , Rhode Island, Debs spoke to 3,000 people in Infantry Hall and, after reviewing a labor
                    parade, spoke again that night. In 
                  Haverhill,
                            Massachusetts
               , scene of early Socialist
                    victories, he addressed several thousand people in the town square. The speech followed a parade of
                    more than 2,000 people which disrupted traffic for hours. While 12,000 troops paraded in honor of
                    the dedication of a new bridge in 
                  Hartford, Connecticut
               , Debs drew several thousand from the
                    line of march to a nearby park where he lectured them on the evils of capitalism.55
            
            Though the speeches elsewhere had been impressive, the most spectacular meeting was held in the
                    Hippodrome in 
                        New York
                     City. When the Red Special pulled into the railroad station thousands of eager men,
                    women, and children surged forward, " ‘eager to touch even so much as the hem of
                    his garment.’ "58 Almost 7,500 people paid admission for the
                    Hippodrome speech and waited patiently for Debs to arrive, while 2,500 who could not get in awaited
                    him in a nearby hall.67 The campaign managers had procured a great quantity of
                    red cloth, small squares of which were sold at the door for a nickel. When Debs made a point that
                    the crowd liked, the 
                  
                     53 Ameringer, If You Don't Weaken, 255,
                            266-267; Ginger, The Bending Cross, 269-270.
                  
                     54 "The Surprising Campaign of Mr. Debs," Current Literature, XLV (November, 1908), 481.
                  
                     55
                            
                                New York
                            
                            World, October 17, 1908.
                  
                     56 "The Surprising Campaign of Mr. Debs," Current Literature, XLV (November, 1908), 481-482.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 482.
               
                     huge room became a sea of red as the listeners waved their
                    flags in agreement.58 Backed by a rostrum of Socialist dignitaries and
                    officials, Debs gave the Hippodrome audience a long, earnest exposition of his reasons for opposing
                    capitalism and for supporting socialism. When he hurriedly left the hall after the exhausting
                    speech, in an effort to avoid further tiring ceremonies, the crowd surged outside and tried to carry
                    his automobile to his hotel. Later that evening at a dinner held in his honor, several women donated
                    their jewels to the Red Special fund. They were added to the six hundred dollars already collected
                    that day.59
            
            Socialist plans for a giant rally in 
                        Philadelphia
                     were thwarted when the management of the Opera House decided that they could not permit
                    a Socialist rally without police permission, which was not forthcoming. Consequently, Debs spoke
                    twice on the same night in two smaller halls in the City of Brotherly Love.60
            
            No speech passed without a biting attack on the old parties and their candidates, for Debs was always
                    anxious to expose what he considered the hollowness of the regular party platforms. Debs spoke in 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, on the same night that William Howard Taft spoke there, and a great many
                    people who could have gone to hear Taft free preferred to pay to hear Debs.61
                    Mr. Taft had no great admiration for the Socialist presidential candidate. Eugene Debs, he said, was
                    a socialist "who would uproot existing institutions, destroy the right to private property
                    and institute a new regime."62 Debs would have heartily agreed to most
                    of the charge.
            President Roosevelt, very much alive to Socialist influence among liberals, was irritated by
                    Debs' campaign. The amazing energy of the Red Special tour showed that the Socialists might
                    take many liberal votes from both Bryan and Taft. Good politician that he was, Roosevelt did not
                    underestimate the Socialists and recognized them as a potentially powerful 
                  
                     58 "Mr. Debs' Appeal," Outlook, XC (October 17, 1908), 323-324.
                  
                     59 "The Surprising Campaign of Mr. Debs," Current Literature, XLV (November, 1908), 481-485; Karsner, Debs, 200-204.
                  
                     60 Karsner, Debs, 198.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Los Angeles
                            
                            Times, October 23, 1908; Karsner, Debs, 204.
                  
                     62 Quoted in Pringle, Life and Times of William Howard
                                Taft, I, 367.
               
                     political force, despite his public dislike of their
                        program.63 He agreed that capitalism could stand a little reforming but
                    labeled talk about wage slavery "absurd."64 He was aware of
                    the influence of the Socialist press, especially of the Appeal to Reason, which he thought appealed
                    more to hate than to reason.65 And he thought that Debs was destructive rather
                    than constructive. He had never forgotten Debs' part in the Pullman strike and could not
                    quite accept him as anything more than "an undesirable citizen." "To
                    praise and champion Debs, to condone his faults, is precisely like praising and championing Tweed
                    and condoning Tweed's faults," he wrote a friend. He accused Debs'
                    followers of "mushy morality" and labeled Debs' speeches "mere
                    pieces of the literature of criminal violence."66
            
            But the sword of criticism was double-edged and Debs was always ready with a quick reply. He called
                    Roosevelt the "high priest of capitalism"67 and insisted that
                    he was merely another vessel containing the acids of capitalistic society and a willing tool for the
                    financial interests who ran the government.68 As for Bryan, his claim of
                    representing both labor and capital was as impossible to Debs as riding two horses in opposite
                    directions at the same time.69 Bryan had cautiously advocated public ownership
                    of the railroads when he came home from his world tour in 1906, but this was hardly any answer to
                    society's ills as far as Debs was concerned. To him it was still a half measure, designed
                    to bolster rather than to destroy capitalism, Throughout the campaign he aimed a steady fire of
                    criticism at his opponents. When Taft 
                  
                     63 Henry Pringle, Theodore Roosevelt (
                                New York
                            , 1931), 367-368.
                  
                     64 Roosevelt distrusted what he called the "lunatic
                            fringe" of the Socialist movement more than socialism as such, and at times he
                            privately showed some sympathy with some of the Socialist program. Publicly he insisted that
                            his reforms had saved the country from socialism. When the election of 1908 showed that the
                            Socialists seemed to be on the decline, he wrote that not all of their works were bad and
                            some of their program could be adapted to the American scene. Theodore Roosevelt, Where We
                            Can Work With Socialists," Outlook, XCI (March 27, 1909),
                            662-664; Pringle, Theodore Roosevelt, 543.
                  
                     65 Theodore Roosevelt to Lyman Abbott, June 17, 1908, in Eking Morison
                            (ed.), The Letters of Theodore Roosevelt (8 vols., 
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1951-1954), VI, 1080.
                  
                     66
                            Ibid., 1080-1081.
                  
                     67 Socialist Party, Socialist (Perpetual) Campaign
                            Book (
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), 7.
                  
                     68
                            Appeal to Reason, September 6, 1908.
                  
                     69 Painter, That Man Debs, 98.
               
                     declined to debate the issues of the campaign with him, Debs
                    excoriated him as a worthy tool for the capitalists.70
            
            Debs especially disliked Roosevelt because he feared the President's political influence
                    with the "parlor socialists" and because he honestly believed that the President
                    was not progressive. He ridiculed Taft's progressive pretensions by reading his judicial
                    record and generally referred to him as "Injunction Bill Taft." In reality, Debs
                    had no sympathy with mere reformers, however sincere and well meant their efforts might be. Given
                    his belief that capitalism was the root of all evil, he could accept no program that improved the
                    system by reform. His sincere belief that there was a class struggle in America led him to demand
                    the abolition of the entire capitalistic system as the only way to change society for the better. He
                    opposed the conservative Socialists in their desire for public office and evolutionary change
                    because he felt that such a program did not move beyond reform and would merely, in the end, serve
                    the best interests of the capitalists.
            The campaign also brought sharp exchanges between Debs and President Samuel Gompers of the American
                    Federation of Labor. Debs had quarreled with Gompers before, but seldom with such intensity as in
                    1908. Long before the campaign began, he attacked Gompers for his cooperation with management.
                        
                        President Gompers believes that the interests of labor and capital are identical or mutual.
                            We do not. He believes that these interests can be harmonized and justice done to both. We
                            do not. We believe that labor is entitled to all its produces and that labor must organize
                            politically as well as economically to abolish the existing order ….71
                  
                     Gompers, irritated by Debs' whole attitude and especially by his association with
                    the I.W.W.,72 was not long in answering; before the campaign was scarcely under
                    way, the break between the two men seemed final. Debs attacked Gompers for
                    "pleading" with management for a more lenient labor policy and demanded that the
                    A.F. of L. leader turn the labor vote to the socialists.73 Gompers in turn
                    denounced Debs as the 
                  
                     70
                            Appeal to Reason, October 31, 1908.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., January 18, 1908.
                  
                     72 Samuel Gompers, Seventy Yews of Life and Labor (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1925), I, 424-427.
                  
                     73 Socialist Party, Socialist (Perpetual) Campaign
                            Book, 9.
               
                     "Apostle of Failure" in the pages of the
                    official A.F. of L. publication. He charged that Debs had never done anything for organized labor
                    but give it a black eye and echoed a rumor set afloat in the press that the Republicans were
                    secretely financing the Red Special to frighten the voters into "playing safe"
                    with Taft.74 When Debs angrily offered to debate the campaign issues with
                    Gompers, the latter curtly refused.75
            
            Debs was angered enough by Gompers' support of Bryan and by his continued defense of craft
                    unionism and collective bargaining, but he was stung most by the charges that the Republicans were
                    secretly financing the Red Special. Debs knew only too well that nickels and dimes from the rank and
                    file were paying for the train and for the whole Socialist campaign. Furthermore, he had made it
                    clear at the beginning of the campaign that the party would publish all its campaign receipts and
                        expenditures.76 In a presidential campaign in which one of the chief issues
                    turned out to be the question of campaign contributions, not even the Socialists were spared having
                    their sources of financial support questioned. After Gompers made his charge, the party's
                    national headquarters published the names of all those who had contributed to the campaign fund,
                    together with the amount of their contribution, The press then charged that the party was dominated
                    by foreign-born elements. To answer this the party published its membership rolls, revealing that 70
                    per cent of the members had been born in the 
                        United States
                    .77
                    
                  
                     74 Samuel Gompers, "Debs-the Apostle of Failure,"
                                American Federationist, XV (September, 1908), 736-740.
                  
                     75 Painter, That Man Debs, 98. In after years, Gompers delivered a
                            harsh judgement of Debs. He attributed much of Debs' radicalism to sentimentality
                            and emotion, all of which, in Gampers' view, detracted from his success in the
                            labor movement. "When Debs began to discount his judgement in favor of his
                            emotions," Gompers wrote, "he ceased to play a constructive part in the
                            labor movement." Gompers, Seventy Years of Life and Labor, I,
                            406. The A.F. of L. leader was fond of calling Debs a "perpetual leader of lost
                            causes"; he felt that Debs' whole mentality had been warped by his
                            confinement in prison after the Pullman strike. Gompers said of Debs, "He came out
                            of jail a changed man. He had lost all faith in the power of contructive work and became the
                            advocate of revolt. As he had lost faith, he had lost his usefulness and became the apostle
                            of failure and later of secession. Debs was emotionally intellectual. He had high ideals,
                            but was without the practical or constructive mind to put even the least of them into
                            effect." Ibid., I, 415-416.
                  
                     76 Karsner, Debs, 190.
                  
                     77 Nathan Fine, Labor and Farmer Parties in the 
                                    United States
                                 1828-1938 (
                                New York
                            , 1928), 324.
               
                     Debs and Gompers had followed different labor philosophies
                    since the beginnings of their careers. Debs' old American Railway Union had been an
                    industrial union and he always favored that form of unionization. He insisted that organized labor
                    should support the Socialist party in local and national politics, since that party was the only one
                    which represented labor's needs and wishes. Debs had helped found the I.W.W. in part to
                    start a political union, but he had been disappointed in the Wobblies' lack of emphasis on
                    politics. That action had further alienated him from other labor leaders and had widened the breach
                    between him and the conservative Socialists, who feared that Wobbly violence would boomerang on the
                    whole party. Debs still insisted that labor would have to support political candidates pledged to
                    its cause in order to achieve real freedom.
            The progress of the Red Special could not be overlooked by the regular press and for the first time
                    the Socialists found themselves in the pages of some of the country's major newspapers. The
                    size of the crowds that greeted Debs and the vigor of the whole Socialist campaign aroused fears in
                    conservative circles that the Socialists would poll a vastly increased vote.78
                    Ex-President Grover Cleveland, who died before the election, warned his countrymen that the
                    Socialists would poll a million votes.79 The regular press could not afford to
                    ignore the news value of the Debs campaign, and at the same time it could not afford to add to the
                    publicity attending the campaign. A nice compromise was struck in the back pages of many newspapers.
                    The Socialist press continued its impressive showing on behalf of Debs.80
            
            Arguments with Roosevelt and Gompers took second place in Debs' mind to the necessity of
                    advertising socialism in the campaign. Throughout October he continued his speaking tour through the
                    East and Midwest. Stephen Reynolds' campaign biography of Debs sold hundreds of copies
                    along the route; the money from this and other literature sales helped support the Red Special. In 
                        Duluth
                    , members 
                  
                     78 Cf. "Minor Parties," Nation,
                            LXXXVII (August 20, 1908), 152-153.
                  
                     79 The Red Campaign," Current Literature,
                            XLV (October, 1908), 366.
                  
                     80 The Appeal to Reason alone
                            distributed more than 22,000,000 copies of its regular and special issues in 1908. George
                            England, The Stow of the Appeal (Girard, Kan., 1912), 282.
               
                     of the staff tried to deposit the money in a bank but could
                    find none that would accept a Socialist deposit. The men carried the money, contained in several
                    heavy canvas bags, all over town and finally brought it all back to the Red Special, much to
                    Debs' amusement.81
            
            Debs made a special appeal for the Negro vote and couched his appeal in terms he thought the Negro
                    could understand. Neither he nor the Socialist party as a whole ever formulated a special program
                    for the alleviation of the Negro problem but tended rather to treat it in the broader framework of
                    worker versus master, poor versus rich. Debs' attitude was considerably more lenient than
                    that of many other Socialists, and he insisted that the Negro was entitled to the full products of
                    his labor; with economic equality, social equality would come.82 The Red Special
                    stopped at Harper's Ferry where Debs saw the monument to John Brown, one of his heroes. He
                    took the occasion to urge the Negro to vote for the Socialists. "The Socialist Party is
                    carrying on the work begun by John Brown," he said when asked for a statement.83
            
            Toward the end of the campaign Debs returned to 
                  Woodstock, Illinois
               , where he
                    had been imprisoned after the Pullman strike. His former jailer was among the five hundred
                    well-wishers who greeted him at the jailhouse steps. Debs spoke briefly and went through the jail. A
                    large crowd greeted him at 
                  Janesville, Wisconsin
               . The schools in the area had been
                    closed and the railroad station was full of children of all ages, many of whom carried red flags.
                    They were delighted by a handshake with Debs and a quick tour through the Red Special.84
            
            The campaign was drawing to a close and Debs was glad, for the strain imposed upon him by the
                    innumerable speeches, handshakes, and public appearances had been great. He gave his last speech
                    from the Red Special to students at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . The campaign had added fifty thousand new names to the Appeal to Reason's
                    subscription lists; and 
                  
                     81 Ginger, The Bending Cross, 278-279.
                  
                     82 Karsner, Debs, 194; Eugene V. Debs, "The
                            Negro in the Class Struggle," reprinted in Writings and Speeches,
                            63-66; and Eugene V. Debs, "The Negro and His Nemesis," reprinted in
                            Ibid., 66-73.
                  
                     83 Quoted in Ginger, The Bending Cross, 282.
                  
                     84
                            Appeal to Reason, November 7, 1908.
               
                     the Saint Louis Mirror predicted that Debs
                    would poll a million and a half votes.85
            
            On November 3, Debs and Bill Haywood marched at the head of a labor parade that extended more than
                    two miles through 
                        Chicago
                    's streets. Sixteen thousand people heard Debs speak that night and the air was
                    alive with red flags and choruses of approval. Despite intense fatigue, he drew on his last reserves
                    of energy and delivered a rousing speech, appealing one final time for the vote of organized labor.
                    Again with Haywood, he made his last speech of the campaign to his neighbors in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and went home to await the election results.86 He did not doubt
                    that the campaign had greatly strengthened socialism across the country.
            The arch-conservative 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune expected Debs to poll at least a million votes.87 The
                        International Socialist Review predicted 676,500 votes for Debs.88 But as the election returns ticked in, Socialist hopes sank and the final tally was a
                    bitter pill. Neither Berger's confident prediction of a million and half votes for Debs.89 nor Debs' own hopeful call for a million votes was realized.90 The final total gave the Socialists a vote of 420,793, an increase of only
                    20,000 over that for 1904. The Socialists retained their place as the third party of American
                    politics, showing their greatest strength in the Far West and Midwest. 
                        Oklahoma
                    , where farm encampments and hard work had brought increased publicity to the Socialist
                    cause, and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , where the party had many sympathizers among the coal miners, reported slight increases
                    over their 1904 totals. A few other states reported such increases.91
                    
                        Milwaukee
                    , Berger's home town, elected six Socialist candidates to the 
                        Wisconsin
                     legislature,92 but the bright spots were few and far between. 
                  
                     85 Ginger, The Bending Cross, 282-283.
                  
                     86 Coleman, Eugene V. Debs, 248; Karsner, Debs, 205; Ginger, The Bending Cross, 283.
                  
                     87
                            
                                Chicago
                             Tribune, October 15, 1908.
                  
                     88 "The Presidential Election," The Public, XI
                            (November 19, 1908), 779.
                  
                     89 Robert Hunter, "The Socialist Party in the Present
                            Campaign," American Review of Reviews, XXXVIII (September, 1908), 293-299.
                  
                     90 Socialist Party, Socialist (Perpetual) Campaign Book, 5-10.
                  
                     91 Cf. the figures in Socialist Party, Socialist
                                Congressional Campaign Book 1914 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1914), 19.
                  
                     92 "Interesting Election Results," Current
                            Literature, XLV (December, 1908), 688.
               
                     What had happened? Why had the Socialist total remained almost
                    stationary despite the vigorous national campaign? Debs' appeal to the masses of
                    sympathetic voters was obvious; great quantities of Socialist literature had flooded promising
                    areas; and hundreds of party members and workers had followed in Debs' wake, preaching,
                    teaching, exhorting the voters for Debs. Why had the vote increased so little?
            One of the basic Socialist miscalculations was reliance on the results of the election of 1904 as a
                    yardstick to Socialist strength in 1908. In the former year, many Democrats, faced with the
                    distasteful alternatives of Alton B. Parker and Theodore Roosevelt, had undoubtedly voted for Debs.
                    These voters had returned to Bryan in 1908.93 Thus Debs argued that every
                    Socialist vote in 1908 was a pure Socialist vote and the seemingly small total was in fact a
                    considerable gain in Socialist strength. Taft's ample figure had apparently fitted the
                    mantle of progressivism passed on to him by Roosevelt and the President's support had
                    helped him greatly throughout the campaign.84
            
            An economic upswing had turned many voters to the Republicans, who used the prosperity issue
                        freely.95 The Socialists were never able to overcome the American
                    workers' fear of panaceas and experimentation in times of economic dislocation, and this
                    fear was never better illustrated than in 1908 when the Socialists should logically have benefited
                    more from unemployment and labor unrest. The fate of most American third parties has been to
                    stimulate the older parties rather than to succeed to national power themselves. Such was the case
                    with the Socialists in 1908.
            Bryan had captured the liberal Democratic vote; Taft had won the progressive Republican vote; Samuel
                    Gompers had been unable to turn the labor vote to Bryan but had made sure that as little of it as
                    possible went to Debs.96 In addition, many workers had lost their right to vote
                    by leaving their 
                  
                     93
                            Ibid., 588; "The Socialist Showing," Nation, LXXXVII (December 3, 1908), 540-541.
                  
                     94 "Progress of the World," American
                                Review of Reviews, XXXVIII (December, 1908), 643-656.
                  
                     95 "The Election Interpreted," Outlook, XC (November
                            7, 1908), 519-520.
                  
                     96 Robert Hoxie, "President Gompers and the Labor
                            Vote," Journal of Political Economy, XVI (December, 1908),
                            693-700.
               
                     precincts in search of work.97 Such at
                    least were the official Socialist reasons for the small increase in their vote.
            Whatever his comrades said or thought about the election results, Eugene Debs had little to regret.
                    Glad as he was to be back in the peace and quiet of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , he did not regret his tremendous effort. He looked back across the preceding months
                    with the conviction that the whole Socialist campaign had been a job well worth the effort and well
                    done. His primary aim throughout the campaign had been to agitate for socialism and he had succeeded
                    in this. There would be other campaigns and other speaking tours, countless opportunities in the
                    years ahead to preach the coming socialist revolution. His stand in favor of socialism and his faith
                    in the goodness of the common man remained unshaken and undiminished. At the moment he was to tired
                    to reflect on the deeper meanings of the election results. Before the votes were counted he said
                    that the campaign had "expressed the true spirit of socialist comradeship, which is the
                    making of our movement, and which will sustain it through every ordeal until it is finally
                        triumphant."98 There is no reason to believe that he changed his
                    mind after the votes were counted.
            
               
                  97 Socialist Party, Proceedings of the First National
                            Congress, 1910 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1910), 30; Morris Hillquit, History Of Socialism in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1910), 348-349.
               
                  98 Karsner, Debs, 206.
            
         
         
         
            Campaign Issues in the Presidential Election of 1908
            Edgar A. Hornig*
            
            Though few historians would dispute the contention that all presidential elections are significant in
                    the stream of 
                        United States
                     history, the quest for a comprehensive discussion of the issues in the presidential
                    election of 1908 within the rich storehouse of American historical literature is likely to be
                    unrewarding. Edward Stanwood in his History of the Presidency from 1897 to 1916,
                    for example, devotes seventy two pages to the election of 1908 but surprisingly offers almost no
                    information regarding the issues.1 The best biographies of William Jennings
                    Bryan, who in 1908 headed the Democratic party's ticket for the third and last time,
                    constitute a barren source on this topic.2 Henry F. Pringle's
                    commendable two-volume biography of Republican candidate, William Howard Taft, though it refers to
                    the bank, tariff, and publicity issues in passing, offers an incomplete treatment of the subject.3 Edgar Eugene Robinson's The Evolution of American Political Parties
                    presents an able comparison of the platforms and positions of the two major parties, but casts only
                    a dim light upon the issues as they materialized during the campaign.4 A very
                    recent and creditable study of the history of presidential elections, except for brief paragraphs on
                    the trust and publicity issues, offers next to nothing.5 Even Mark Sullivan in
                    his highly readable multi-volume study, Our Times, while he does provide a descriptive and
                    illuminating account of President Theodore Roosevelt's role in the 
                  
                     * Edar A. Hornig is Associate Professor of History at 
                                San Jose
                             State College, 
                        San Jose,
                                    California
                     . His doctoral
                            dissertation was entitled "The Presidential Election of 1908" (
                                Stanford
                             University, 1955); he has also written "The Indefatigable Mr. Bryan in
                            1908," 
                                Nebraska
                             History, XXXVII (September, 1956).
                  
                     1 Edward Stanwood, A History of the Presidency from 1897
                                to 1916 (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928), 11, 141-213.
                  
                     2 See Paxton Hibben, The Peerless Leader (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 280-287; Morris R. Werner, Bryan (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 158; and John C. Long, Bryan: The Great Commoner (
                                New York
                            , 1928), 198-208.
                  
                     3 Henry F. Pringle The Life and Times of William Howard Taft (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1939), I, 365-373.
                  
                     4 Edgar E. Robinson, The Evolution of American Political Parties (
                                New York
                            , 1924), 295-300.
                  
                     5 Eugene Roseboom, A History of Presidential
                            Elections (
                                New York
                            , 1957)) 343-356.
               
                     election, fails to discuss the subjects over which the campaign
                    was fought.6 As one might expect, the more widely used college textbooks are
                    similarly unenlightening on the topic.7 Hence, a more comprehensive discussion
                    of the issues and of the positions assumed by the two major candidates in the 1908 presidential
                    election is desirable.
            The presidential election with which this paper is concerned occurred in the midst of an era of
                    domestic reform. Since 1901 the Republican party had been dominated by the liberal-minded Theodore
                    Roosevelt, whose rare popularity rested upon his reputation as war hero, trust-buster, friend of
                    conservation, battler for reform legislation, and advocate of a "Square Deal" for
                    labor. In 1908 Bryan, adoringly known as the "Great Commoner" in many segments of
                    American society, was once again the ringmaster of the Democratic party, having wrested control of
                    it from the conservatives. Bryan, champion of free silver in 1896 and of anti-imperialism in 1900,
                    prepared in 1908 to fight for a host of domestic reforms. On the state and local level the early
                    years of the century also witnessed reform-motivated activities of such leaders as Governor Charles
                    Evans Hughes of 
                        New York
                    , Robert M. (Fighting Bob) LaFollette of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and Governor William U'Ren of 
                        Oregon
                    . Among groups which helped to develop reform consciousness in the public mind during
                    the years before 1908 were the Populists of the 1890's, the forces of organized labor, the
                    Socialists, and the Muckrakers, those widely-read journalists who publicized certain sordid aspects
                    of the American scene. As might be expected, the campaign issues of the presidential election of
                    1908 mirrored various features of this era of reform.
            Before discussing the campaign issues reflected in the activities of the two major parties and their
                    candidates, one should note that third parties, attracting only 800,219 popular votes out of a total
                    of 14,885,989 and no electoral votes, played a distinctly minor role in the election of 1908.8 The Prohibition 
                  
                     6 Mark Sullivan, Our Times: The 
                                    United States
                                , 1900-1925 (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1926-1935), IV, 289-315.
                  
                     7 Samuel E. Morison and Henry S. Commager in their popular study, The Growth of the American Republic (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1950). 11, 409-411, scarcely refer to the issues. John D. Hicks in his lucid
                            college textbook, The American Nation (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1955), 354-355, gives but scant attention to the issues and viewpoints
                            of the major candidates.
                  
                     8 Stanwood, History of the Presidency, 11,
                        208.
               
                     party, thirty-nine years old in 1908, emphasized in its
                    321-word platform the plank suggested by its name.9 Although presidential
                    candidate Eugene Chafin conducted a nationwide campaign in twenty-eight states in which he
                    emphasized the prohibition issue, the nominees of the two major parties gave but scant attention to
                    the subject.10
            
            The Socialist Labor party, well to the left of the Socialist party in 1908, nominated August Gilhaus
                    of 
                        New York
                     for president after convicted murderer, Martin Preston, declined the nomination from
                    his prison cell in Nevada. Gilhaus stood on a platform which denounced the existing economic order
                    and demanded that all land, as well as all the means of production and distribution, be put into the
                    hands of the people as a collective body.11 The limited role of the Socialist
                    Labor party in the election is reflected in its winning only 14,021 votes, less than half the number
                    won in 1904.12
            
            The Populist party in 1908, close to death's embrace, advocated in its platform larger
                    issues of money, government ownership and control of the railroads and utilities, and other
                        reforms.13 Presidential candidate Thomas Watson, confining his campaign
                    largely to his home state of 
                        Georgia
                    , captured a pitiful 29,146 votes.14
            
            An entirely new party, the Independence party, burst upon the American political scene early in 1908.
                    This organization was widely regarded as a tool designed to promote publisher William Randolph
                    Hearst's political fortunes, since he financed, managed, and controlled it.15 The Party's platform was similar in many ways to that of the Democrats, though
                    it was more extreme with regard to injunctions and upheld such remedies as government ownership of
                    railroads and utilities.16 Though Thomas (Honest Tom) Hisgen was the
                    presidential nominee, Hearst easily dominated the party's campaign through his attempts to
                    discredit the major parties 
                  
                     9 Kirk H. Porter, National Party Platforms (
                                New York
                            , 1924), 297-298.
                  
                     10 Edgar A. Hornig, "The Presidential Election of
                            1908" (Doctoral dissertation, 
                                Stanford
                             University, 1955), 215-249.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Porter
                            , National Party Platforms, 318-319.
                  
                     12 Stanwood, History of the Presidency, 11, 208.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Porter
                            , National Party Platforms, 294-295.
                  
                     14 Stanwood, History of the Presidency, 11, 208.
                  
                     15 Nation, LXXXVII (July 30, 1908), 85; Collier's, XLII (October 10, 1908), 9; Independent, LXV
                            (November 12, 1908), 1128.
                  
                     16
                            
                                Porter
                            , National Party Platforms, 286-293.
               
                     by publicly reading letters and affidavits selected to prove an
                    intimate relationship between prominent Republicans and Democrats with corporate interests.17
            
            In 1908 the Socialist movement was regarded as "most undoubtedly
                        going-somewhere!"18 Not only did its ranks include prominent
                    intellectuals, various churchmen, and many labor men, but the Socialist party had scored impressive
                    gains at the polls between 1888 (about 2,000 votes) and 1904 (about 400,000).19
                    Its 1908 platform expressed a deep-rooted dissatisfaction with the nation's
                    economic-political system and proposed a number of reforms which included a program of conservation,
                    the abolition of child labor, and inheritance and income taxes. The Socialists also called for the
                    collective ownership of railroads and all industries organized on a national scale; and they
                    advocated such radical political reforms as the abolition of the 
                        United States
                     Senate and judicial review.20 Though Socialist candidate Eugene V.
                    Debs, the ex-locomotive fireman from Indiana, conducted an energetic campaign in a three-car train
                    called the "Red Special," his party attracted only 18,000 votes over the figure
                    for 1904.21
            
            Turning to one of the two major parties, the 1908 Republican platform, in addition to heaping praise
                    upon Theodore Roosevelt's administration, complimented the American people upon their
                    "recent safe passage" through the Panic of 1907; called for a revision of the
                    tariff; praised the Sherman Anti-Trust Act of 1890, but admitted the need for amendments designed to
                    curb monopoly; and favored a more accurate statutory definition of federal court procedure regarding
                    the issuance of injunctions. The G.O.P. claimed that it had a proven capacity for governing the
                    nation as the result of its having stood for such things as sound money, protection, and expansion,
                    while the Democracy had advocated free silver, free trade, and the contraction of American
                    influence. Among the planks of the platform which did not develop into campaign issues were those
                    having to do with 
                  
                     17
                            
                                New York
                             Times, September 8, 1908, p. 5; and October 30, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., August 2, 1908, part 5, p. 9.
                  
                     19 Ibid.
                  
                     20 Socialist Party, Proceedings of the National
                                Convention of 1908 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), 135-145.
                  
                     21 Stanwood, History of the Presidency, II,
                        208.
               
                     postal savings, railroads, conservation, agriculture, the
                    Negro, the army and navy, foreign commerce, veterans, and the overseas possessions.22
            
            The Democratic platform, longer than its Republican counterpart, called for a law providing for
                    pre-election publicity of campaign contributions and lashed out at the G.O.P. National Convention
                    for its refusal to endorse a similar plank. The Democrats clearly favored an immediate downward
                    revision of the tariff, attacked private monopoly, and recommended national legislation which would
                    establish a license system for all corporations engaged in interstate commerce which controlled as
                    much as 25 per cent of the product they manufactured, The Panic of 1907 was cited as proof of
                    Republican incompetence to protect the public, and the Democrats pledged to support legislation
                    establishing a fund for the guaranty of bank deposits. Lastly, the party responded to the wishes of
                    organized labor by calling for trial by jury in cases of indirect contempt, opposing the issuance of
                    injunctions in any cases in which they would not issue if no industrial dispute were involved, and
                    endorsing legislation providing for a general employer's liability act and a separate
                    Department of Labor. Among the many lesser planks which did not achieve importance during the
                    campaign were those regarding the popular election of senators, the curbing of the powers of the
                    Speaker of the House of Representatives, more democracy in government, the income tax, patronage,
                    government spending, the rights of the states, civil service, pensions for veterans, overseas
                    possessions, conservation, and Asiatic immigration.23
            
            In June of 1908 the Republican National Convention, strongly influenced by President Roosevelt,
                    nominated Taft of 
                        Ohio
                     for the presidency. A few days later the Democratic party, once again dominated by its
                    liberal wing, named Bryan of 
                        Nebraska
                     as its standard-bearer. Judging from the campaign activities and pronouncements of both
                    major parties and their spokesmen, the time-honored tariff question represented one of the major
                    issues. The Republican party in its campaign textbook unabashedly endorsed the principle of
                    protection as being highly advantageous to both labor and 
                  
                     22
                            Official Report of the Proceedings of the Fourteenth Republican Convention
                                    (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1908), 115ff.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Porter
                            , National Party Platforms, 272-285.
               
                     industry, heaped unstinted praise upon the McKinley and Dingley
                    tariffs of the 1890's, boldly asserted that the periods of protection in 
                        United States
                     history had been periods of prosperity, and warned that free trade would lead to
                    economic ruin.24 In his speech of acceptance in late July, Taft lent his weight
                    to the Republican doctrine of protection, stating that it made for increased wages and a richer
                    standard of living. The G.O.P. candidate qualified his views, however, by adding that he opposed
                    such tariff rates as exceeded the difference between the cost of production at home and abroad, that
                    certain schedules were not high enough and should therefore be raised.25
            
            Later in the campaign Taft promised, if elected, to implement that plank in the G.O.P. platform which
                    called for a revision of the tariff by a special session of Congress immediately following his
                        inauguration.26 At 
                        Milwaukee
                     in late September, he said that Republican revision of the tariff, contrary to the
                    Democratic doctrine of tariff for revenue only, would adhere strictly to the principle of
                    protection. He added, however, that schedules which were too high would be lowered and those which
                    were too low would be raised.27 A few days later, while seeking votes in the
                    region of 
                  Sioux City, Iowa
               , Taft again talked about tariff revision—mostly
                        downward.28 In early October the former Secretary, citing numerous
                    statistics before audiences of 
                        Kansas
                     farmers, argued that Republican protective tariffs yielded higher agricultural prices
                    than those resulting from Democratic measures.29
            
            Though Taft's stand on the tariff question may have appealed to some voters, the adverse
                    criticism it evoked was not limited to Democratic sources. On the eve of the election the pro-Taft
                    editors of Collier's concluded that "Taft is discouraging on the
                        tariff."30 The Nation, also in the Republican 
                  
                     24 Republican National Committee, Republican Campaign
                                Text-Book, 1908 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1908), 99-103.
                  
                     25
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 29, 1908, p. 4.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., August 23, 1908, p. 1.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., September 25, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., September 30, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., October 4, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     30
                            Collier's, XLII (October 31, 1908), 9.
               
                     nominee's corner, thought that the Ohioan's
                    attempts to blame the depression of the mid-1890's on the Wilson-Gorman tariff were
                        pathetic.31
            
            On the side of the opposition, the Democratic campaign textbook asserted that Republican protective
                    tariffs had increased the cost of living and encouraged the formation of trusts.32 Early in his exhausting campaign in a speech devoted to the tariff at
                            
                  Des Moines, Iowa
               , Bryan argued that Republican promises of tariff revision were
                    worthless, since the G.O.P. was too deeply obligated to protected corporate interests to pay off
                    such promises. The Nebraskan also explained that the Democrats favored a revenue tariff approached
                    gradually, since a protective tariff merely taxed all the people for the benefit of the few. A
                    revenue tariff would stimulate business and provide more jobs by reducing the cost of materials for
                    industry and by encouraging a two-way type of foreign trade.33
            
            One notes with interest that even various pro-Taft periodicals were inclined to praise
                    Bryan's tariff views. A political commentator for Outlook magazine, for
                    example, conceded that the Democracy's standard-bearer had struck where the Republican
                    party was most vulnerable, and that he had dealt courageously with the protective principle.34
            
            While the subject of the tariff has permeated many American political battles, the issue concerning
                    guaranty of bank deposits represented a unique feature of the 1908 election. Indeed, this topic,
                    though usually overlooked by historians of the era, drew more attention and comment during the
                    campaign, especially from Democratic ranks, than did the tariff. Its prominence was, of course, in
                    part the result of the bank panic of the preceding winter. In the Middle West where the issue
                    carried its greatest political appeal, the plan was already in operation in 
                        Oklahoma
                    ; in 
                        Kansas
                     the Republican State Convention had early in 1908 declared in favor of trying the
                    scheme on a state-wide basis. In states such as 
                  
                     31
                            Nation, LXXXVII (October 1, 1908), 304. See also the 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 30, 1908, p. 5.
                  
                     32 Democratic National Committee, The Campaign Textbook
                                of the Democratic Party of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1908 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), 71, 202.
                  
                     33
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, August 22, 1908, pp. 1, 2.
                  
                     34 "Mr. Bryan on the Tariff," Outlook, LXXXIX (August 29, 1908), 961.
               
                    
                    
                  Nebraska, Iowa
               , and 
                        Minnesota
                     popular interest in the idea caused it to become a dominant issue.35
            
            According to the plan advocated by Bryan, a tax was to be imposed on national banks and upon such
                    state banks as desired to participate, whereby an insurance fund for the guaranty of bank deposits
                    would be established. Speaking in 
                        Kansas
                    , the Democratic candidate insisted that it was logical to "make the depositor
                    secure" since national, state, county, and city governments required security for their
                    deposits, and that the idea was already working successfully in 
                        Oklahoma
                    .36 Appearing at a rally in 
                  Rochester, New York
               , he
                    predicted that a guaranty fund would not invite reckless banking practices, but rather would promote
                    a greater degree of mutual responsibility on the part of bankers as well as stricter supervision and
                    superior regulation.37
            
            The idea of insuring bank deposits attracted support from sources other than Bryan. The Democratic
                    National Committee, for example, circulated one million copies of an endorsement of the plan which
                    had been made by Republican Governor Robert Hoch of 
                        Kansas
                    .38 R. Goodwyn Rhett, mayor of 
                  Charleston, South Carolina
               ,
                    and president of the People's National Bank of that city, spoke in a number of eastern
                    states, including 
                        New York
                    , on behalf of the system.39 During the months of September and
                    October, almost every issue of Bryan's newspaper, The Commoner, carried
                    articles advocating the proposal.40 A number of pro-Taft newspapers expressed a
                    measure of tacit approval by saying that they regretted the Ohioan's hasty condemnation of
                    the plan.41
            
            Being of a conservative viewpoint, Taft and most of his fellow Republicans, along with countless
                    powerful interests throughout the nation, opposed the plan. The ex-Secretary of War warned that the
                    scheme would encourage reckless banking practices by relieving a banker "of responsibility
                    to and 
                  
                     35 Henry L. West, "Business Depression and the Popular
                            Mind," Forum, XL (October, 1908), 304. See also American Review of Reviews, XXXVIII (October, 1908), 395.
                  
                     36
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, August 28, 1908, p. 4.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., September 17, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., September 21, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., October 25, 1908, p. 6.
                  
                     40
                            Commoner, VIII (October 16, 1908), 3.
                  
                     41
                            Current Literature, XLV (October, 1908), 366.
               
                     fear of the depositors" at the expense of responsible
                        bankers.42 He also claimed that, contrary to statements from Bryan, the
                    scheme was producing unfortunate results in 
                        Oklahoma
                    .48
            
            The Wall Street Journal, Collier's, Nation, World's Work, and Harper's Weekly were among the many influential publications of 1908
                    opposing the idea. In early October the conservative-minded American Bankers' Association
                    adopted resolutions which mercilessly branded the scheme as unsound in principle, impracticable,
                    revolutionary, subversive of sound economics, encouraging to bad banking, and conducive to
                        panics.44
            
            Because the election of 1908 occurred during an era of reform, the labor question constituted still
                    another major area for discussion and disagreement. According to Forum's political pundit,
                    Henry L. West, there was more speculation and uneasiness regarding the attitude of the laboring man
                    during the campaign than in any previous presidential contest.45 During their
                    stumping activities, both major candidates showered as much verbiage on labor as any other subject,
                    while President Roosevelt, Samuel Gompers, and the press also awarded it intensive consideration.
            Generally speaking, Bryan's remarks on labor were more reform-minded and inclusive than
                    those of his opponent. Addressing a major rally in 
                        New York
                     City, the Democratic nominee called for the establishment of a separate Department of
                    Labor with a cabinet officer at its head. He insisted that labor organizations be exempt from the
                    operation of the anti-trust laws for the reason that the difference between the labor organization
                    and the industrial combination was too great to be covered by one statute. Bryan urged that
                    "the law relating to injunctions should be so modified that an injunction shall not issue
                    in an industrial dispute except under conditions that would justify an injunction if there were no
                    industrial dispute." Lastly, he advocated trial by jury in cases of indirect contempt
                    because in such cases, the candidate maintained, the judge attempted to combine in himself the
                    deliberation of the lawmaker, the zeal of the prosecuting attorney, and the impartiality of the
                    judge. As if to add a 
                  
                     42
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, August 27, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., September 27, 1908, p. 4.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., October 2, 1908, p. 4.
                  
                     45 Henry L. West, "The President and the Campaign,"
                                Forum, XL (November, 1908), 417.
               
                     clincher to these four important points, Bryan reminded his 
                        New York
                     audience that the wishes of union labor had been callously rebuffed at the Republican
                    National Convention but had been warmly embraced by the Democracy's assemblage.46
            
            Not infrequently during the campaign Bryan reached for the labor vote by attacking Taft's
                    record as a judge. For example, he reminded an enthusiastic Labor Day throng in 
                        Chicago
                     that the ex-judge was known as "the father of government by
                    injunction"; according to Bryan, Taft's opposition to trial by jury in cases of
                    indirect contempt indicated prejudice against the jury system.47
            
            Bryan's White House aspirations and views on labor were energetically supported by President
                    Samuel Gompers of the American Federation of Labor. In the middle of July, the union leader visited
                    Bryan at his home in 
                  Lincoln, Nebraska
               , to assure him that the labor vote would be counted
                    heavily for him in November.48 Gompers stumped the key states of
                            
                  Pennsylvania, Michigan, Ohio
               , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        New York
                     on behalf of the Democrats. He also wrote in the Federationist, organ
                    of the American Federation of Labor, lauding the Democratic party and pleading with union men to
                    vote the Democratic ticket. Gompers emphasized that, while the Republican platform had rejected the
                    demands of labor, the Democratic platform had incorporated labor's wishes.50
            
            In early October, Gompers issued a circular in which he charged that Taft and his party favored the
                    extension of a despotic government vested in the judiciary, while the Democracy and Bryan stood for
                    government by law vested in the people.51 On the occasion of an important
                    address at a labor meeting in the Grand Central Palace of 
                        New York
                     City on the eve of the election, the A.F. of L. chieftain claimed that labor had
                    nothing to hope for from the Republicans. Since Taft was said to have been anti-labor as a judge,
                    Gompers called upon organized labor to vote for Bryan.52
            
            
               
                  46
                        
                            New York
                         Times, September 19, 1908, p. 2.
               
                  47
                        Ibid., September 8, 1908, p. 4.
               
                  48
                        Ibid., July 14, 1908, p. 1.
               
                  49 Samuel Gompers, Seventy Years of Life and Labor: An
                            Autobiography (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1925), II, 269.
               
                  50
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, July 22, 1908, p. 3.
               
                  51
                        Ibid., October 13, 1908, p. 2.
               
                  52
                        Ibid., November 2, 1908, p. 2.
            
            
            Even a cursory study of the campaign reveals that union labor was divided in its willingness to
                    follow Gompers' advocacy of the cause of the Democracy. Among those backing Gompers was
                    Thomas Healey, president of the International Brotherhood of Firemen, who maintained that
                    Gompers' work on behalf of the Democratic party was the logical outgrowth of decisions of
                    the recent 
                        Washington
                     conference of international unions.53 Similarly, in late September
                    the members of the Workingmen's Federation of the State of 
                        New York
                     endorsed Gompers' efforts on behalf of the Democratic cause.54 Among union men opposed to Gompers' activities was James L. Feeney, president of
                    the Bookbinders' Union, who declared that Taft, not Bryan, was the friend of labor.55 Frank
                    A. Kidd, president of the 
                        Columbia
                     (
                        Washington
                    ) Typographical Union, not only denounced Gompers' appeal for labor votes for
                    Bryan but explained the basis for his viewpoint. "Trade unionists," Kidd reasoned,
                    "think alike on craft questions, but they differ widely on political …
                    questions, and this difference is universally tolerated by labor bodies. … Therefore, any
                    attempt to corral the political expression of workingmen is destructive of the basic principles of
                    the trade union movement."56
            
            The Republican viewpoint on the labor question, while not diametrically opposed to that of the Bryan
                    camp, evinced greater satisfaction with the status quo. For one thing, Taft staunchly defended his
                    course toward labor while he had been a federal judge by contending that he had no apologies to make
                    for any of his decisions. He maintained that his rulings actually had furthered the development and
                    standing of unions and that, instead of being an enemy, he was one of labor's greatest
                        benefactors.57
            
            Moreover, the corpulent candidate's stand on the subject of injunctions differed from that
                    of his opposition. Appearing before a large 
                        Chicago
                     audience, Taft patiently explained that the injunction was a judicial device which
                    helped to keep not only lawless elements of labor within the law, but lawless capitalists as well.
                    He contended that in various cases the 
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., July 23, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., September 24, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., July 18, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., July 23, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., October 13, 1908, p. 2.
               
                     injunction was the only adequate remedy for a man whose
                    business was being injured by unlawful action on the part of former employees. Regarding the issuing
                    of injunctions without notice, the ex-judge conceded that opportunity for abuse existed, but quickly
                    added that there were cases when no other device seemed satisfactory. Finally, the candidate
                    attacked the plank in the Democratic platform which called for a jury trial in cases of indirect
                    contempt by claiming that such a procedure would "so hamper the administration of justice
                    as to make the courts a laughing stock."58
            
            On the occasion of an address in 
                  Buffalo, New York
               , Taft bid for the votes of workers by
                    lauding the labor gains attained by the Roosevelt administration. Moreover, he voiced approval of
                    such proposed and tepid reforms as enlarging the functions of the Commissioner of Labor and holding
                    the 
                        United States
                     government liable in the same way as a private employer for the injury of its
                        workmen.59 Campaigning at Cooper Union in 
                        New York
                     City, a stronghold of pro-labor sentiment, Taft repeated his belief in the right of
                    labor to strike and to organize, but he warned that labor might not unlawfully injure the property
                    or business of employers. He lashed out against the legalization of the secondary boycott in labor
                    disputes. In the same address Taft jabbed at Gompers by saying that the workingmen of the nation had
                    too much intelligence and independence to allow themselves to be delivered by any leader from one
                    party to another.60
            
            While the Democratic stand on the labor question benefited from the backing of union-head Gompers,
                    the Republican line was anchored by the politically astute President of the 
                        United States
                    . Roosevelt, who worried over the labor vote during the campaign,61
                    confided to his son, Kermit, that labor was a factor working against the G.O.P., admitting that
                    "the labor people have just cause of complaint with the Republican Party taken as a whole,
                    because Congress under the lead of [Speaker Joseph] Cannon treated them badly," as did the
                        courts.62 In an effort to help Taft win as large a segment 
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., September 24, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., November 2, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., October 29, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., October 10, 1908, p. 5.
                  
                     62 Theodore Roosevelt to Kermit Roosevelt, October 20, 1908, in Elting
                            E. Morison (ed.), The Letters of Theodore Roosevelt (8 vols., 
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1951-1954), VI 1303-1304.
               
                     of the labor vote as possible, the Chief Executive wrote to
                    such labor leaders as Thomas Dolan, Secretary of the International Brotherhood of Steam Shovel and
                    Dredgemen, stating that he belived Taft would follow labor policies similar to his own. On October
                    16, Dolan made the letter public.63 Calling the same play a few days later,
                    Roosevelt sent a message to Philip Grace, a member of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, in which
                    he predicted that the wage workers of the country "have never had a better friend in the
                    White House than Mr. Taft will prove himself to be." On October 25, Grace made public his
                        communication.64
            
            It is a point of considerable significance that the campaign of 1908 had no single paramount issue in
                    the sense that free silver and imperialism overshadowed, respectively, the political battles of 1896
                    and 1900. The daily newspaper accounts of Bryan's speaking tours of 1908 reveal that he
                    usually mentioned several issues in a single address, and that if he emphasized a certain theme one
                    day he was apt to dwell upon a different one the following day. He discussed the tariff, the trusts,
                    labor questions, Roosevelt's active role in the campaign, the Roosevelt policies, Taft, the
                    popular election of senators, the income tax, the guaranty of bank deposits, and many other issues.
                    None, however, towered above all others. Correspondent Charles W. Thompson, who covered the campaign
                    of 1908 for the 
                        New York
                     World and was with Bryan much of the time, said that the Democracy's candidate
                    "brought out issue after issue, trying to find a good paramounter. They were all
                        duds."65
            
            Because no one issue predominated during the 1908 campaign, the candidates themselves became one of
                    the most important issues. Upon the termination of the Democratic National Convention in July, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times carried an editorial which asked, "Will the American people have
                    the Roosevelt policies continued and administered by Mr. TAFT or by Mr. Bryan? That is the real
                    question before them for 
                  
                     63 Roosevelt to Thomas J. Dolan, October 15, 1908, in Morison (ed.),
                                Letters of Theodore Roosevelt, VI, 1286-1287. See also 
                                New York
                             Times, October 17, 1908, p. 1.
                  
                     64 Roosevelt to Philip Grace, October 19, 1908, in Morison (ed.), Letters of Theodore Roosevelt, VI, 1296. See also 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 26, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     65 Charles Willis Thomson, Presidents I've Known
                                and Two New Presidents (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1929), 52. See also Current Literaturs, XLV (October, 1908),
                            362; Outlook, XC (October 31, 1908), 467.
               
                     decision,"66 and later, in
                    October, a political commentator for the World Today magazine maintained that "the real
                    issue is the nominees rather than the platforms."67 During the
                    campaign, editorials in Nation, World's Work, and Munsey's Magazine expressed similar opinions.68
            
            Both Bryan and Taft made a point of discussing each other's fitness for the presidency in
                    their campaign speeches. For example, the Democratic candidate claimed, while speaking in 
                        Cincinnati
                     on September 24, that Taft had never supported a reform which he had not advocated
                    earlier and had secured the G.O.P. nomination only because of the President's powerful
                    support, not because of his record. By way of contrast, Bryan argued that he had secured his
                    nomination from the "rank and file of my party."69 Taft, on
                    the other hand, told his listeners at a 
                        Chicago
                     rally that Bryan's record bore no demonstration of practical ability, and that
                    he had been guilty of sponsoring unsound financial theories.70
            
            Many influential periodicals at the time of the election of 1908 devoted considerable attention to
                    the relative qualifications of the two major candidates. Typical was an editorial in Outlook by the editor-in-chief of the magazine, Lyman Abbott, which held that Taft was by
                    temperament, equipment, and training better qualified for the presidency than Bryan.71 Articles or editorials of a comparable nature appeared in American Review
                        of Reviews, Collier's, World's Work, Living Age, Nation, and Harper's Weekly.72
            
            Another batch of articles highly laudatory of Taft emerged during the campaign. For example, Charles
                    Conant, writing for 
                        Putnam
                    's Monthly, wittily concluded that the well-traveled ex-Secretary of War was
                    qualified to administer the great interests of the 
                        United States
                     "because he has been over 
                  
                     66
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 10, 1908, p. 6.
                  
                     67
                            World Today, XV (October, 1908), 993.
                  
                     68
                            Nation, LXXXVII (July 9, 1908), 23; World's
                            Work, XVII (November, 1908), 10837; Judson C. Welliver, "If Bryan Is Elected
                            to the Presidency," Munsey's Magazine, XL (October,
                            1908), 4.
                  
                     69
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 25, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., September 23, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     71 Lyman Abbott, "The Personal Issue," Outlook, XC (October 31, 1908), 469-472.
                  
                     72
                            American Review o Reviews, XXXVIII (October, 1908), 396;
                            Collier's, XLII (October 17, 1908), 9; World's Work, XVI (October, 1908),
                            10739; Living Age, CCLVIII (August 8, 1908), 381; Nation, LXXXVII (October 15, 1908), 361;
                                Harper's Weekly, LII (October 31, 1908), 10.
               
                     the property."73 An editorial in
                        American Review of Reviews, also typical of these statements, insisted that
                    "seldom if ever has any American party had a finer candidate."74
            
            A fair number of articles appeared during the weeks before the election which expounded upon
                    Bryan's virtues, though they were fewer in number than those which praised Taft. John
                    Welliver, writing for Munsey's Magazine, reasoned that the Democratic
                    candidate had had a remarkable preparation for the presidency as the result of information and
                    experience gained during his travels throughout the nation.75 An article in Midwestern Magazine advocated Bryan's election because of his remarkable
                    personal integrity, high mindedness, immaculate ideals, modesty, magnificent appearance, oratorical
                    superiority, and sympathy for those who are oppressed and weak.76 The Reverend
                    Robert Bisbee wrote an article for Arena which recommended Bryan's election and
                    Taft's defeat because the Republican candidate was "utterly without the democratic
                    spirit." Bisbee claimed that Taft was imperialistic, "the tool of privileged
                    wealth," a "blundering administrator," lacking in independence, and
                    ignorant on the subject of tariff reform.77
            
            Lastly, a group of articles derogatory to Bryan appeared in various publications in which the
                    Nebraskan was usually described as one of limited intellectual capacity who had recommended
                    ridiculous panaceas. William Allen White, writing for Collier's, referred to
                    Bryan's "lack of intellectual strength" and concluded that his
                    "leadership is not trustworthy."78 An editorial in the 
                        New York
                     Times recalled that Bryan had advocated and abandoned free silver, anti-imperialism,
                    and government ownership of railroads; it stated that "his shifting to other issues is
                    evidence of an instability of mind highly undesirable in a Chief Executive."79 Highly 
                  
                     73 Charles A. Conant, "William H. Taft, The Peacemaker of the
                            Philippines," 
                        
                                    Putnam
                                's Monthly & The Reader, V (October, 1908), 13.
                  
                     74
                            American Review of Reviews, XXXVIII (July, 1908), 7.
                  
                     75 Judson C. Welliver, "If Bryan is Elected to the
                            Presidency," Munsey's Magazine, XL (October, 1908), 11.
                  
                     76
                            Commoner, VIII (October 30, 1908), 1-2.
                  
                     77 Robert Bisbee, "Why Mr. Taft Should Be Defeated,"
                            Arena, XL, (October, 1908), 316-320.
                  
                     78 William Allen White, "Twelve Years of Mr. Bryan,"
                                Collier's, XLII (October 17, 1908), 13.
                  
                     79
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 2, 1908, p. 6.
               
                     analogous opinions were expressed in articles in such
                    periodicals as Harper's Weekly, Outlook, Nation, and Life.80
            
            Because many exploitive and predatory practices of big business had not yet been effectively curbed
                    in 1908, the trust question was another issue of considerable prominence. Bryan, again assuming a
                    more reform-minded position than his opponent, told a 
                  Rochester, New York
                throng
                    that Taft and the Republican party intended merely to regulate the trusts, not prevent them.
                    Moreover, he said that regulation under the "complacent Mr. Taft" would not be
                    effective, since "Mr. Roosevelt, with all his strenuosity, has not succeeded in imprisoning
                    a single trust magnate."81 While stumping in Indiana, the former
                    advocate of free silver emphasized that his party favored strict enforcement of the Sherman
                    Anti-Trust Act and the extermination of private monopoly. To accomplish the latter, Bryan called for
                    a law preventing duplication of directors among competing corporations, and the requiring of a
                    federal license of any corporation controlling 25 per cent or more of the product it produced as a
                    means of preventing the company from controlling more than 50 per cent of the market. In the same
                    address Bryan defined a trust as a "corporation which controls so large a proportion of the
                    total quantity of any article used in this country as to be able to regulate the price and terms of
                    sale." He concluded his remarks by assuring his listeners that, while his party did not
                    oppose all corporations, "the Democratic Party draws the line at private
                        mononoly."82
            
            As one might expect, Bryan's trust policy evoked harsh criticism because it constituted a
                    challenge to the status quo. The editors of the Nation labeled Bryan's plan for trust
                    regulation as "plainly unworkable," claiming that it would be impossible to define
                    50 per cent of the total amount of any product.83 Political analyst Samuel E.
                    Moffett thought that the 50 per cent limitation idea would compel the 
                        United States
                     Steel Corporation, the American Sugar Refining Company, 
                  
                     80
                            Hurper's Weekly, LII (October 31, 1908), 11; Outlook, LXXXIX (July 18, 1908), 595-597; Nation, LXXXVII (July 16,
                            1908), 46; Life, LII (August 6, 1908), 136.
                  
                     81
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 17, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     82
                            Ibid., August 26, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     83
                            Nation, LXXXVII (September 3, 1908), 195.
               
                     the Standard Oil Company, and dozens of other corporations to
                    dissolve or sell a large part of their plants.84
            
            The Nebraskan's scheme for containing the great incorporated combinations represented a
                    major reason for the hostility of most business interests to his 1908 candidacy; other factors
                    included his tariff stand, labor policy, and former opposition to the gold standard.85 James W. Van Cleave, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, urged
                    businessmen to bury Bryan and Bryanism on election day under an avalanche of votes.86 A number of corporations even applied economic coercion to insure Bryan's defeat.
                    One business organization ordered $100,000 worth of engines with the provision that the
                    contract might be canceled in the event of Bryan's election.87 In early
                    October Paul M. Sharples, proprietor of the Sharples Separator Works in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , not only ordered his employees to appear in a parade feting Republican
                    vice-presidential candidate James (Sunny Jim) Sherman, but he also threatened to close his factory
                    indefinitely the moment that Bryan's election appeared imminent.88
                    Similarly, a week before the election, President Edward P. Ripley of the 
                  Atchison, Topeka
               ,
                    and Santa Fe Railroad stated that if Bryan were elected the Santa Fe system would abandon extensions
                    and improvements aggregating $3,000,000.89 In such unethical and
                    undemocratic ways, reminiscent of the campaign of 1896, did various corporate interests attempt to
                    bully their employees for the purpose of insuring victory for their party and its candidates.
            On the Republican side, Taft successfully outlined his views on the trust issue in an address at St.
                    Charles, 
                        Missouri
                    . The candidate stated that he saw no reason to oppose such aggregations of capital as
                    existed to effect economies, but when corporations attempted to monopolize business and control
                    prices their actions became illegal and must be checked through federal supervision and prosecution
                    of law violations. The Ohioan also explained that the aim of the 
                  
                     84 Samuel E. Moffett, "Mr. Bryan's
                            Convention," American Review of Reviews, XXXVIII (August, 1908),
                            184.
                  
                     85
                            Independent, LXV (October 29, 1908), 107-109.
                  
                     86
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 22, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     87
                            Ibid., July 26, 1908, p. 1.
                  
                     88
                            Ibid., October 10, 1908, p. 1.
                  
                     89
                            Ibid., October 28, 1908, p. 3.
               
                     next administration would be the effective application of
                    existing law, rather than the enactment of great statutes establishing new standards of business
                    integrity. His opponent's trust policy was subjected to adverse comment in the same address
                    when Taft argued that Bryan's call for a license for all corporations that make 25 per cent
                    of any product sold in the 
                        United States
                     would ruin many small corporations making special articles that had no relation to
                        trusts.90 The Republican campaign textbook, though defensively admitting to
                    the existence of occasional corporation abuses, claimed that the record of the Roosevelt
                    administration proved that the G.O.P. had acted vigorously to check such evils.91
            
            During the heated weeks of the campaign, a concerted effort was made on the part of both major
                    parties to affix the corporation tag, especially that of the Standard Oil Company, to the
                        opposition.92 Journalist William Randolph Hearst publicized various letters,
                    allegedly purloined from the files of Standard Oil, in a attempt to stick the corporation label on
                    both major parties.8s Meanwhile, President Roosevelt, who bravely entered the fray by writing a
                    number of well-publicized epistles, tried to fasten the stigma on the Democrats. This popular game
                    of letters resulted in 
                        Oklahoma
                    's Democratic Governor Charles Haskell and Republican T. Coleman Du Pont of 
                        Delaware
                    , because of alleged or actual corporation connections, being forced out of their
                    respective campaign organizations. One page of the Republican campaign textbook carried the
                    unbelivable headline, "The Democratic Plan of Trust Regulations Is the Plan Proposed by
                    Standard Oil Magnates."94 In a speech in Harrington, 
                        Delaware
                    , Bryan charged that the 
                        United States
                     Steel Corporation was supporting the Republican campaign as payment for immunity from
                    prosecution already received.95 Sardonically, the Nation
                    inquired about this game of tag, "Where is this process of purification to stop? We know of
                    nobody really 
                  
                     90
                            Ibid., October 7, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     91
                            Republican Campaign Text-Book, 1908, pp. 31-37.
                  
                     92
                            Current Literature, XLV (November, 1908), 471.
                  
                     93
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 30, 1908, p. 1; October 26, 1908, p. 1; November 1, 1908,
                            p. 1. See also Albert L. Gleason, "Mr. Hearst's Thieves," Collier's XLII (October 24, 1908), 8. (October 24, 1908), 8.
                  
                     94
                            Republican Campaign Text-Book, 1908, p. 62.
                  
                     95
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 18, 1908, p. 1.
               
                     good enough to conduct this campaign, since we do not live in
                    the days of St. Francis or St. Elizabeth."96
            
            The only significant issue in addition to those already discussed had to do with publicity for
                    campaign contributions and expenditures. Though no national statute existed in 1908 which compelled
                    the national committees to make public the sources of their campaign funds, mounting public opinion
                    on the subject was too strong to be ignored by either party. As a result, the Democratic National
                    Convention adopted a plank for its platform which called for pre-election publicity of the sources
                    of campaign funds. Moreover, on July 14, the National Committee pledged itself, under a plan
                    suggested by Bryan, to publish before October 15 the names of all contributors of $100 or
                    more, to limit the size of individual contributions to $10,000, not to accept money from
                    corporations, and to publish a list of expenditures not later than one month after the election.97 Though the G.O.P. national assemblage in June rejected a publicity plank by a
                    vote of 880 to 94, Taft in his July acceptance speech defended himself on this issue by pointing out
                    that the selection of New Yorker George Sheldon as treasurer of the Republican National Committee
                    would put the records of that committee under the laws of his state and would require that a
                    statement of receipts and expenditures be filed twenty days after the election.98
            
            During his stumping activities, Bryan proudly reminded his audiences that the Republican National
                    Convention had rejected a plank pledging publicity, whereas the Democratic platform had included
                    such a feature. He also emphasized that the Democratic National Committee had promised to publish a
                    list of its contributors before the election, rather than after, as the Republicans intended to do.
                    Quite logically, Bryan reasoned that publication of contributors before the election was significant
                    for the reason that such a list would reveal to the electorate the people to whom the party was
                        indebted.99
            
            Articles in Bryan's Commoner also hammered away at the importance of
                    letting the voters know the identity of contributors before the ballots were cast. This highly
                    partisan 
                  
                     96
                            Nation, LXXXVII (October 1, 1908), 301.
                  
                     97
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 16, 1908, p. 1.
                  
                     98
                            Republican Campaign Text-Book, 1908, pp. 24-25.
                  
                     99
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 2, 1908, p. 3.
               
                     newspaper asserted that in 1904 the Republican party had not
                    dared to inform the voters before election day of the contributions which it had received from men
                    like Edward Harriman, Charles Depew, John Pierpont Morgan, and John D. Rockefeller. Yet Roosevelt
                    and Taft dared to maintain in 1908, the Commoner pointed out, that the people must
                    wait until after they cast their votes before being told by the Republican managers "of the
                    interests by which the Republican campaign is being financed."100
            
            On October 15 Herman Ridder, treasurer of the Democratic National Committee, made public the list of
                    contributions that had been made to the Democratic national fund up to October 9. The largest
                    contributor was Carl Hughes of 
                        Denver
                    , a well-known corporation lawyer, who had given $5,000. Next on the list was
                    Bryan himself, who had contributed the profits of the Commoner, $4,046.
                    Ridder stated that subsequent subscriptions would be made public daily.101
            
            In an address devoted largely to the publicity issue, Taft defended Roosevelt's contention
                    that campaign contributions should be publicized after, and not before, the election. The G.O.P.
                    hopeful argued that publication of contributions before the election would cause the motives of the
                    contributors to be "misconstrued … and misrepresented," and that
                    candidates would be "charged … as being completely under the control of those
                    who make the contributions." Taft concluded that a rigid law requiring the publication of
                    contributions and expenditures within ten days after the election was all that public policy
                        demanded.102
            
            The American press was inclined to praise the stands of both major parties and their candidates on
                    the publicity issue. The editors of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times opined, "Mr. Taft and Mr. Bryan are to be congratulated on the
                    policy of publicity they have adopted as to campaign contributions. It is a step
                        forward."103 Understandably, however, various political analysts
                    thought that Bryan's viewpoint on the matter was superior to that of Taft. For example, the
                    editors of the World's Work lauded the Democratic stand by saying,
                    "On this subject, Mr. Bryan undoubtedly has the stronger 
                  
                     100
                            Commoner, VIII (October 9, 1908), 1.
                  
                     101
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 16, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     102
                            Ibid., October 1, 1908, p. 1.
                  
                     103
                            Ibid., September 17, 1908, p. 6.
               
                     position. … If publicity is a preventive of evils
                    … prompt publicity is surely a better preventive than belated publicity."104 In October even the editors of the pro-Taft Nation remarked, "When
                    the Democratic Committee has given out a full account of its receipts … the Republicans
                    will find it exceedingly awkward … to explain their unwillingness to take the country
                    equally into confidence."105 Parenthetically, it should be observed
                    that both national committees fulfilled their promises to make public their contributions and
                    expenditures soon after the election. Thus the first publicity of the funds of the national
                    committee was supplied the electorate before such action was required by law.106
            
            In addition to the foregoing topics of major status, the presidential campaign of 1908 included a
                    number of minor issues such as the Panic of 1907. The Republicans naturally discussed the subject
                    sparingly, while their opposition logically raised the issue frequently. Nevertheless, the matter
                    failed to achieve primary significance in the campaign. The main reason why the Panic of 1907 did
                    not assume a role of major proportions was that by the autumn of 1908 economic conditions were once
                    again close to normal. The panic had started suddenly in October of 1907, spreading westward from 
                        New York
                    . It had been acute while it lasted but was largely limited to business in the cities;
                    therefore, its effects were not widespread. It was followed by no prolonged depression and was
                    succeeded by rapid recovery.107 By October of 1908, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times was able to report that between February 14, 1908 and September 23, 1908 the
                    total resources of the 6,853 national banks of the 
                        United States
                     had increased by $631,000,000; individual deposits during the same period
                    were up by $443,000,000.108 Approximately one month before the
                    election, the editors of World's Work reported that "the
                    recovery in the business world has been marvelous," though 
                  
                     104 "Campaign Fund Publicity, Before or After?" World's Work, XVII (November, 1908), 10851.
                  
                     105
                            Nation, LXXXVII (October 15, 1908), 349.
                  
                     106 Louise Overacker, Money in Elections (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 237.
                  
                     107 Wesley C. Mitchell, Business Cycles and Their
                            Causes (
                                Los Angeles
                            , 1941), 75-107. See also Willard Thorp, Business Annals (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 140; and Wilford King, The Causes of Economic
                            Fluctuations (
                                New York
                            , 1938), 42, 66-67.
                  
                     108
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 22, 1908, p. 16.
               
                     it was admitted that many unfortunate effects of the panic were
                    still apparent.109
            
            The Republican campaign textbook, trying to brush away the Panic of 1907, asserted that the
                    disturbance was merely financial, not industrial or commercial, in nature. The Roosevelt
                    administration was applauded for establishing the National Monetary Commission to study the needs of
                    the nation's monetary system.110 In his acceptance speech Taft
                    discussed the causes of the panic in passing and soothingly assured his listeners that
                    "gradually business is acquiring a healthier tone."111
            
            Conversely, the Democrats tried desperately to convert the panic into a vote-getting issue but with
                    very limited success. Nathan Straus, chairman of the Democratic Businessmen's League,
                    exaggerated to a 
                        New York
                     audience, "The Panic which began last fall is the greatest panic the world has
                    ever known."112 The Democratic campaign textbook reasoned that the
                    financial upheaval had destroyed the argument employed by Republican leaders that
                    "Democratic legislation and hard times—decreased tariffs and
                    panics—are found coexisting throughout our history."113
            
            In October, Bryan claimed before a throng in the 
                        Iowa
                     corn belt that the nation was in the "midst of a depression" for
                    which Republican policies were responsible. He reminded his audience that the financial disaster had
                    come after more than ten years of Republican rule.114 Stumping before a partisan
                    crowd at home in 
                  Lincoln, Nebraska
               , he observed that the Panic of 1907 made ridiculous the
                    Republican argument that a Democratic victory would disturb business. "How can the
                    Republicans," Bryan asked, "threaten us with a panic, when a panic came under the
                    present President and is still upon us?"115
            
            The Roosevelt policies constituted one of the campaign's unique issues in that they were
                    endorsed by both major candidates 
                  
                     109
                            World's Work, XVI (October, 1908), 10742.
                  
                     110
                            Republican Campaign Text-Book, 1908, pp. 54-56.
                  
                     111
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 29, 1908, pp. 4-6.
                  
                     112
                            Commoner, VIII (October 23, 1908), 2.
                  
                     113 Democratic Campaign Textbook, 1908, p. 53.
                  
                     114
                            
                                New York
                             Times, October 7, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     115
                            Ibid., October 3, 1908, p. 2.
               
                     and did not inspire bitter disagreement or frequent comment.
                    Their importance as an issue lay in the tendency of many American voters to support the candidate
                    more closely associated with them. Taft, as Secretary of War, had become identified with the
                    policies long before the 1908 campaign. When the Ohioan delivered speeches on Roosevelt's
                    behalf in the election of 1904, his remarks literally defended every controversial aspect of the
                    Roosevelt administration.11B Four years later, while in quest of the 1908 Republican presidential
                    nomination, he repeatedly offered unqualified endorsement of "The
                    Trust-buster's" policies. Speaking at the Sandusky Opera House in 
                        Ohio
                     during his 1908 campaign for the White House, Taft promised, if elected, to devote all
                    his ability to clinching the Roosevelt policies. Taft went on to insist that Bryan had no right to
                    label himself as their legitimate heir.117 Displaying a measure of political
                    sagacity, Taft wisely emphasized his belief in the course of the Roosevelt administration while
                    stumping the progressive-minded western states.118
            
            Attempting to score a few points in the game by disassociating the G.O.P. from the popular Roosevelt
                    policies, the Democrats in their 1908 campaign textbook chided the Republican National Convention
                    for having rejected certain reforms previously endorsed by the President. Mentioned in particular
                    were publicity for campaign funds, ascertaining the value of railroads, and income and inheritance
                        taxes.119 In late August, Bryan provided the rare spectacle of a
                    presidential aspirant offering tacit approval of the policies of the opposition. Seeking votes at
                    his birthplace in 
                  Salem, Illinois
               , the candidate claimed that he was the proper heir
                    to the Roosevelt "reforms" because he was the one from whom the Republican party
                    had taken them.120
            
            With both major candidates endorsing the Roosevelt policies, a powerful advantage in the campaign
                    fell to the party in power. The G.O.P. could point to accomplishments; 
                  
                     116 Pringle, Taft, I, 262-263.
                  
                     117
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 9, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     118 Oscar K. Davis, Released for Publication (
                                New York
                            , 1925), 111.
                  
                     119
                            Democratic Campaign Textbook, 1908, p. 19.
                  
                     120
                            
                                San Francisco
                            
                            Call, August 27, 1908, p. 8.
               
                     the Democrats could merely offer promises. The editors of Nation pointedly summed up the situation by saying, "If Mr. Bryan can
                    promise us nothing better than we have had under Roosevelt or than we should have under Taft, why
                    should any one want to make him President?"121
            
            Frequently during the campaign, Republicans tried to squeeze votes from the contention that a Bryan
                    victory would lead to economic ruin for the nation. During the heat of the contest, for example,
                    Roosevelt penned a letter to a 
                        New York
                     labor leader in which the President injudiciously warned, "If Mr. Taft is not
                    elected, a period of industrial chaos and business bad times will ensue in which the workingmen will
                    suffer far more than any other class."122 Candidate Taft, now more
                    politician than judge, informed an audience in 
                        Cincinnati
                     that Bryan's "election will mean a paralysis of business and we
                    should have a recurrence of the disastrous business conditions of the last Democratic
                        administration.123 Even the august governor of 
                        New York
                    , Charles Evans Hughes, and President Roosevelt's able Secretary of State,
                    Elihu Root, were not above exploiting this approach as a means of corralling votes. Hughes told a
                    cheering crowd in 
                        Indianapolis
                     that the election of Bryan would spell business disaster and depression, whereas
                    Taft's election would result in a continuation of prosperity.124
                    Appearing before an enthusiastic rally in 
                        New York
                     City, Root pictured Bryan as a Populist and a real danger to the nation. Root went the
                    whole hog by predicting that Bryan's election to the presidency would be followed by
                    curtailed production, another financial panic, unemployment, lowered wages, a ruined market for farm
                    products and manufacturers, reduced income, and a long period of economic stagnation.125
            
            In attempting to cope with the impact of this issue, the Democrats were on the defensive. Nathan
                    Straus angrily told a meeting of 
                        Chicago
                     Democrats that those who predicted disaster in the event of Bryan's election
                    were either short-sighted 
                  
                     121
                            Nation, LXXXVII (September 17, 1908), 247.
                  
                     122 Roosevelt to Philip Grace, October 19, 1908, in Morison (ed.), Letters of Theodore Roosevelt, VI, 1301.
                  
                     123
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 23, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     124
                            Ibid., September 29, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     125
                            Ibid., November 1, 1908, p. 3.
               
                     or trying to obscure the real issues of the campaign.126 The Commoner tried to strike back through the device of a
                    cartoon in which "Business, Industry, and Labor of 1907" were depicted as three
                    beaten, crippled souls being warned by Taft that the election of Bryan would result in panic and
                    hard times.127
            
            The above-mentioned Republican tactics of predicting disaster in the event of a Bryan victory were
                    closely paralleled by the rattling of various "skeletons" in the Democratic
                    candidate's closet. By way of illustration, the Republican textbook cited excerpts from
                    speeches of 1906 in which Bryan had called for government ownership of railroads.128 When during the 1908 campaign, Taft accused Bryan of favoring government ownership, the
                    Nebraskan shot back by pointing out that both the Republican candidate and Roosevelt had at one time
                    threatened the railroads with government ownership if they did not consent to effective regulation;
                    and that threat, reasoned Bryan, represented substantially the position he had taken. The Democratic
                    candidate also insisted that government ownership was not an issue in the 1908 election.129 In late September the Republicans attempted to exploit the
                    "skeleton" of free silver when vice-presidential nominee James Sherman asserted
                    before a meeting of the Commercial Travelers' Sound Money League in 
                        New York
                     City that Bryan was an enemy of the gold standard. "No one could
                    say," Sherman declared, "that the pied piper of 
                        Nebraska
                     would not wander off into the cloudy dreamland of free silver should insanity overtake
                    the American people and Mr. Bryan be elected."130 Admitting that he had
                    favored the free coinage of silver, the Democratic candidate counter-punched by pointing out that
                    William McKinley had voted for free coinage of silver in 1878, and that the Republican National
                    Convention in 1896 had pledged itself to international bimetallism. Bryan justified his former
                    advocacy of free silver by maintaining that the 
                        United States
                     needed more money 
                  
                     126
                            Ibid., October 8, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     127
                            Commoner, VIII (October 2, 1908), 1.
                  
                     128
                            Republican Campaign Text-Book, 1908, pp. 282-285.
                  
                     129
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 25, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     130
                            Ibid. 5, September 26, 1908, p. 3.
               
                     at the time, a need which was fulfilled by unexpected
                    discoveries of gold. Lastly, 
                        Bryan
                     stated that the money question, as in the case of government ownership, was no longer
                    an issue.131
            
            Though the presidential battlefield of 1908 featured no single issue of giant proportions, the
                    debating of a number of topics during the campaign warrants the careful attention of students of
                    recent American political and economic history. On the time-tattered subject of the tariff, Bryan
                    strongly opposed protection by advocating a tariff for revenue only, maintaining that such a policy
                    would benefit the domestic economy and promote a two-way type of foreign trade. On the other hand,
                    though Taft vaguely talked about revision, he staunchly defended protection as being conducive to
                    economic prosperity. The Democratic standard-bearer thus assumed the more advanced, reform-minded
                    position, the one vindicated by time and present-day dedication of both major parties to a
                    low-tariff program.
            Regarding the bank guaranty issue, a topic frequently overlooked by historians of the era, Bryan
                    again assumed the more liberal position by recommending that a tax be levied against all national
                    banks and participating state banks for the establishment of an insurance fund for the guaranty of
                    bank deposits. The conservative Republican camp claimed that the plan would invite reckless banking
                    practices and promote financial panics. In view of the impressive success of the Federal Deposit
                    Insurance Corporation during the last twenty years, the Taft-Republican position stands discredited
                    and the popularization of the bank reform by the Bryan-Democratic side must properly be regarded as
                    a constructive contribution.
            On the widely-discussed and complicated issue of labor, Bryan once again proved to be reform-minded
                    and responsive to the wishes of labor by advocating a separate Department of Labor, the exemption of
                    labor organizations from prosecution under the anti-trust laws, a more limited use of the injunction
                    in labor disputes, and trial by jury in cases of indirect contempt. Taft, though he voiced approval
                    of the mild 
                  
                     131
                            Ibid., September 25, 1908, p. 2.
               
                     gains realized by labor during the Roosevelt administration,
                    opposed the Bryan-backed labor reforms either openly or tacitly, In view of the congressional
                    enactment during the five to six years that followed the election of 1908 of most of the reforms
                    which Bryan helped to popularize (in 1908), the position of the Democratic camp on the labor
                    question was the more foresighted.
            Though Bryan's positions on the tariff, bank guaranty, and labor questions were not without
                    merit, Taft appeared in the eyes of most voters to be the more qualified candidate for the awesome
                    position of President of the 
                        United States
                    . Not only did the Ohioan have the bulk of the press on his side and benefit from the
                    backing of the ever-popular Theodore Roosevelt, but his experiences and accomplishments as a judge,
                    Governor of the Philippine Islands, and Secretary of War appeared to most citizens to surpass any
                    recommendations his opponent could present. Compared to his foe, Bryan appeared to many elements of
                    the electorate as untried, shifty, inexperienced, and of limited intellectual capacity.
            The pattern of Bryan as the liberal and of Taft as the conservative, which emerged on the tariff,
                    bank guaranty, and labor issues, appeared again on the trust question. The more reform-minded
                    Democratic candidate called for legislation preventing duplication of directors among competing
                    corporations, a suggestion which a few years later became a feature of the Clayton Anti-Trust Act of
                    1914. Bryan also urged the enactment of a law requiring a federal license for any corporation
                    controlling 25 per cent or more of a product it produced as a means of preventing the company from
                    controlling more than 50 per cent of the market. This proposal never received more than fleeting
                    consideration during the years that followed. More inclined to defend the status quo, Taft opposed
                    Bryan's license scheme, favored no new trust legislation, and merely promised effective
                    application of existing law.
            While both sides and their candidates look presentable in the pages of history on the publicity
                    issue, the Democrats may claim whatever edge existed. The Bryan camp not only included a plank in
                    its platform which called for pre-election publicity of the sources of campaign funds, but actually
                    published the names of contributors before election day.  Though
                    the G.O.P. rejected a publicity plank at its convention, Taft voiced approval of post-election
                    publication of campaign contributions. Both national committees made public their contributions and
                    expenditures soon after the election.
            Lastly, with regard to minor issues of the campaign, both Taft and Bryan endorsed the Roosevelt
                    policies. The Republicans were on the defensive with reference to the Panic of 1907 and
                    Taft's record as a judge; the Democrats, however, found themselves with their backs to the
                    wall as the result of Bryan's former advocacy of free silver and government ownership of
                    railroads.
         
         
         
            Development of Underground Gas Storage in Indiana
            
                    Robert V. Kirch
                    *
                
            Storing natural gas underground is not a twentieth century development. Certain geological formations
                    beneath the earth's surface have held natural gas for millions of years. However, it was
                    not until after the turn of the century that gas utility engineers, with the assistance of
                    geologists, began to utilize these subterranean formations, emptied of gas by past production, to
                    store part of the utility's gas supply. Natural gas not only was reintroduced into such
                    depleted and abandoned gas fields but geological investigations were undertaken to discover non-gas
                    bearing structures which would serve the same purpose.
            The gas industry's interest in underground storage developed slowly. The first underground
                    storage project in this country was placed into operation in 1916.1 It involved
                    the use of an exhausted gas well in the Zoar Field in western 
                        New York
                    . Although a few additional storage reservoirs were constructed in the following two
                    decades, it was not until the middle and late 1930's when utilities experienced an
                    unprecedented demand for natural gas as a heating fuel that industry-wide interest in underground
                    storage materialized. This interest has continued up to the present time with current indications
                    pointing to further emphasis on this method of storing natural gas. Between the years 1950 and 1955
                    the construction of storage facilities in the 
                        United States
                     represented a $270,000,000 investment. Forecasts for the years 1957 and 1958
                    show expenditures of $32,000,000 and $34,000,000, respectively.2 As of 1956, gas utilities in twenty states, including Indiana, had 214 storage fields in
                    operation with an estimated deliverable volume of almost two trillion cubic feet.3
            
            
               
                  * Robert V. Kirch, who specializes in the study of public
                        utilities, is an instructor in the Department of Government, Indiana University, 
                            Indianapolis
                         Center.
               
                  1 C. E. Loomis, "Underground Storage for the Utility,"
                            Gas Age, CXVI (November 17, 1955), 35.
               
                  2 Harold W. Springborn, "Underground Storage Exceeds Two
                        Trillion." Gas Age, CXVII (May 3. 1956). 29.
               
                  3
                        Idid. The estimate totaled 1,824,411,911,000 cubic feet. If the cushion gas
                        (not usable) in these reservoirs is counted, the total exceeds two trillion cubic feet.3
               
            
            
            What is behind the gas industry's interest in underground storage reservoirs? These
                    reservoirs provide the most satisfactory solution to a major supply problem confronting gas
                    utilities today, that of furnishing uninterrupted service to their customers, especially space
                    heating customers, during the critical winter months of the year.4 Space heating
                    requirements, i. e., heating single and multiple family dwellings, commercial establishments, and
                    institutional buildings, generally comprise the largest service classification of a gas utility. The
                    following general remarks on the supply situation in this industry and the wide fluctuations
                    experienced in meeting space heating requirements will explain the importance and desirability of
                    underground storage.
            While gas utilities in Indiana and other midwestern and eastern states were originally supplied with
                    natural gas from local fields, the majority of these fields proved to be productive only for a
                    relatively few years.5 Thereafter, natural gas was obtained from the vast gas
                    deposits located in the southwest section of the country. By means of high pressure pipe lines, this
                    gas was transported interstate and sold to intrastate utilities for local distribution.
            When space heating requirements reach their peak on extremely cold winter days, the interstate
                    transmission pipe lines, already operating at maximum capacity, have no surplus gas available for
                    delivery. Therefore, a gas utility must carefully estimate the highest number of customers its
                    system can serve under such restrictive supply conditions. In other words, the number of space
                    heating customers (and other customers) a utility can satisfactorily serve is limited by the
                    capacity of its gas supply to meet any foreseeable peak demand on a given day (twenty-four hour
                    period). If a gas company can enlarge its supply potential beyond that needed to meet peak winter
                    demands, it is in a position to take on new customers and increase its revenues accordingly. The
                        
                  
                     4 Underground gas storage also enables a gas utility to increase the
                            number of customers it can serve, reduce the costs of purchasing gas, improve the operating
                            efficiency of its equipment and pipe lines, increase its revenues, and, in the interest of
                            conservation of natural resources, avoid the consumption of natural gas for inferior uses.
                            These economic and operational benefits are explained and illustrated in a recent article,
                            Robert V. Kirch, "Underground Gas Storage in Indiana," Indiana Business Review, XXXIII (March, 1958), 6-12.
                  
                     5 For a case in point, see the comments in footnote 22 on the gas boom
                            in Indiana following the discovery of the Trenton Field in 1886.
               
                     presumption of adding new customers is justified by the long
                    waiting lists of space heating applicants held by most gas utilities.6
            
            Throughout the warmer months of the year when the need for space heating gas is absent, the supply
                    situation is reversed. The interstate suppliers have the pipe line capacity to deliver substantial
                    volumes of gas, but the local utilities usually have no suitable markets for it. Under these
                    circumstances, however, it is possible for a gas utility to take some of this available gas and
                    store it for use during the winter heating season (November through March), thereby increasing the
                    system's capacity to meet peak space heating loads. In the beginning, the gas was stored in
                    large, above-ground gas holders.7 Subsequently, exhausted and abandoned gas
                    fields located in or near the utility's service area were successfully employed as storage
                    facilities. Economic considerations of both storage methods, costs versus capacity, normally favor
                    the use of underground storage. These same considerations favor underground storage over the use of
                    liquefied petroleum air-gas plants (tanks of butane or propane) as a means of supplementing the
                    natural gas supply when exceptionally cold weather prevails.
            Unfortunately, the advantages of underground storage are not available to every gas utility. Many
                    utilities are not located near any abandoned gas fields or suitable geological formations.
                    Principally because of numerous exhausted gas fields, the states of 
                  West Virginia, Pennsylvania,
                            New York, Ohio
               , and 
                        Kansas
                     contain the greatest number of underground storage facilities. 
                        Pennsylvania
                     has the highest number 
                  
                            
                        6 Most of Indiana's gas utilities have been unable to
                                satisfy the demand for gas for space heating. The following examples are typical of this
                                situation. Indiana Gas and Water Company has an estimated 7,700 customers waiting for
                                heating gas on its North System—the larger cities of this system are
                                        
                           Lafayette, Frankfort, Tipton,
                                        Lebanon, New
                                    Castle, Crawfordsville,
                                        Huntington
                        , and 
                                    Rushville
                                . Citizens Gas and Coke Utility of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 has a backlog of about 9,400 space heating customers. The Central Indiana
                                Gas Company which serves the 
                                    Muncie
                                -Anderson-
                                    Marion
                                 area has approximately 10,400 heating applications.
                            Gas utilities serving the very large midwest cities have the greatest number of waiting
                                customers. Illustrative of this condition, the Laclede Gas Company supplying the city of 
                                    St. Louis
                                 recently reported that it had 32,600 applications on file; American Gas
                                Association, Information Service, December 27, 1957, p. 14.
                        
                  
                     7 These gas holders, a familiar landmark of the local gas plant, were
                            originally constructed for use with manufactured gas plants but proved to be equally suited
                            for the storage of natural gas.
               
                     of storage projects—sixty—followed by 
                        West Virginia
                     with thirty-seven projects.8
            
            Although not as fortunate as some states with respect to storage strata, Indiana possesses limited
                    opportunities for the construction of underground storage facilities. At the present time,9 five gas companies, including an interstate pipe line corporation, have
                    developed or are in the process of developing such facilities in this state.10
                    Upon completion of the current projects, there will be a total of ten storage reservoirs in
                    operation." Only two of these reservoirs will be constructed from geological formations
                    which have not previously held natural gas. The locations of these storage fields are indicated by
                    the circles shown on the map of Indiana on page 269.
            In order to make the following remarks on underground storage developments in Indiana more
                    meaningful, a brief examination of the cross section diagram of an underground reservoir which
                    appears on page 270 is needed. This diagram illustrates the geological requirements of the most
                    common type of subterranean gas reservoir.12 Notice that the several layers of
                    rock strata conform to the shape of a large dome. The layer or bed of rock which is to hold the
                    natural gas must be characterized by a satisfactory degree of porosity and permeability. The gas,
                    under pressure, is forced into and stored in the billions of minute pores and crevices of this
                    formation-underground storage does not involve the discovery and use of large caverns or underground
                    cavities. Of course, this rock layer has to be bracketed by impervious formations to prevent the gas
                    from escaping. The necessary gastight seal is completed by the back pressure which develops 
                  
                     8 Springborn, Gas Age, CXVII (May 3, 1956), 30-35.
                  
                     9 Research continued through the month of February, 1958.
                  
                     10 These companies are the 
                                Texas
                             Gas Transmission Corporation (interstate corporation), Southern Indiana Gas and
                            Electric Company, Indiana Gas and Water Company, Hoosier Gas Corporation, and Central
                            Indiana Gas Company.
                  
                     11 Most of the information and data on these projects was obtained
                            through personal conversations and interviews with engineering or management personnel
                            associated with such projects. Where information was not available from the utilities,
                            secondary sources were used.
                  
                     12 The cross section view illustrates a domal type of gas pool. The
                            other type of formation utilized in underground gas storage is the porosity lens type.
                            Although this formation does not have a domal shape, it still involves the use of a porous
                            layer of rock surrounded by impermeable formations.
               
                    
                    
                  Map Shows Interstate Pipe Lines (dashed lines) and Underground Storage Sites in Indiana
                            (circles).
               
                    
                    
                  Cross Section Diagram of an Underground Storage Reservoir.
                  (Courtesy of Citizens Gas and Coke Utility, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.)
               
                     when the gas injected into the storage formation displaces and
                    pushes the salt water normally found in such porous strata to the sides of the dome. All of these
                    geological features are represented in the diagram—the gas is stored in a sandstone
                    deposit which is situated between a floor of leak-tight shale and a cap consisting of a leak-tight
                    Ironton formation. The gas is pumped into and out of the storage field through the five wells shown
                    in the sketch. Storage formations may be anywhere from a few hundred feet beneath the
                    earth's surface to three or four thousand feet down.
            The 
                        Texas
                     Gas Transmission Corporation, an interstate pipe line supplier, has four of the ten
                    storage projects in Indiana. The interstate supplier's interest in utilizing underground
                    storage is not unlike that of the distributing gas utility. By increasing the system's
                    capacity to supply gas for peak day heating requirements, additional sales of gas to new or
                    established customers are possible. This corporation had the first operating storage reservoir in
                    the state of Indiana. The Oaktown Field, located three miles west of the town of Oaktown (fifteen
                    miles north of 
                        Vincennes
                    ) in 
                        Knox County
                    , was first used for storage in 1944. It was developed by merely converting a
                    corporation-owned natural gas field, which was still producing small quantities of gas, into a
                    storage facility. This was a simplified and economical operation due to the absence of the three
                    major considerations associated with underground storage: the problems involved in constructing a
                    tightly sealed field to minimize or eliminate leakage; the high cost of laying a connecting pipe
                    line from the storage site to the existing gas mains; and the delays and difficulties experienced in
                    securing the storage rights for property overlying the gas reservoir. Since the Oaktown Field was
                    still in production when the conversion occurred, its ability to hold natural gas was conclusively
                    established. The usual search for possible openings or leaks in the formation was not necessary.
                    Furthermore, the pipe lines and equipment, already installed to take gas out oi the field, were
                    utilized to deliver and pump gas into the formation. The storage volume of this reservoir is rated
                    slightly over one billion cubic feet.
            The corporation's second project is known as the Alford Field and is situated two miles east
                    of the town of Alford (two miles east of Petersburg) in 
                        Pike County
                    . Started in  1948, it was completed in 1951. This
                    storage pool was constructed by using a depleted and abandoned gas and oil field. The problems
                    encountered in making this old natural gas field usable again are indicative of the general
                    construction situation. All the old unplugged or improperly plugged well holes in this field were
                    located and sealed to make the formation gastight. To do this, hundreds of acres of land had to be
                    carefully and thoroughly searched. For the most part, there were no written records of these
                    previously drilled wells to aid the investigators. Before the Alford Field was satisfactorily sealed
                    and made usable, eighty well holes had to be plugged. It took two years of exploration finally to
                    find one of these abandoned wells which was leaking gas. The storage capacity of this field is
                    reported to be four billion cubic feet.13
            
            
               
                        Texas
                     Gas Transmission Corporation is currently developing a third storage facility near the
                    town of Leesville (nine miles east of the city of 
                        Bedford
                    ) in 
                        Lawrence County
                    —U. S. Highway 50 runs right through it. Begun in 1955, this project is still
                    in the initial stages of construction. Here, the corporation plans to utilize a non-gas bearing
                    stratum as a reservoir.14 Geological analysis of this formation indicates the
                    possibility of a water bearing rock structure with a good seal. Numerous test or core holes have
                    been drilled to determine the suitability of this formation for storage purposes. Understandably,
                    the risk involved in attempting to construct a reservoir from a non-gas bearing formation is
                    considerably greater than when working with an old gas field. In developing a non-gas bearing
                    formation there is no assurance that a particular geological structure has the ability to retain
                    natural gas. On the other hand, in constructing a storage facility from a formation which formerly
                    held gas it is known that at one time such formation was, and probably still is, capable of holding
                    gas. The storage process at the Leesville Field will begin when the introduction of gas, under high
                    pressure, displaces and holds back the water. The huge "gas bubble" which forms at
                    the point of injection constitutes the storage volume.
            
               
                  13 Springborn, Gas Age, CXVII (May 3, 1956), 30.
               
                  14 Since this stratum lies below some gas bearing formations, the
                        corporation is investigating the possibilities of using both formations for storage.
            
            
            The site of the corporation's most recent project is the area just north of the town of
                    Wilfred (twenty-two miles south of 
                        Terre Haute
                    ) in 
                        Sullivan County
                    . This area contains an abandoned gas field. Encouraged by the findings of its
                    preliminary explorations which were conducted in 1957, this interstate supplier began the
                    preparatory work of finding and plugging all the old well holes the following year.
            By no means do these four projects satisfy this corporation's desire and need for
                    underground storage. In 1957, the corporation had four geologists searching for possible storage
                    sites in the southern half of the state where the firm's pipe lines serving local
                    distributing utilities are located.
            The Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company, serving the 
                  Mt.
                            Vernon-Evansville
               -Newburg area
                    along the Ohio River, operates an underground storage field near the town of
                    Oliver (fifteen miles west of the city of 
                        Evansville
                    ) in 
                        Posey County
                    . The Oliver Field was created by reconditioning a gas bearing formation to again hold
                    natural gas. Construction on this project started in the spring of 1954 and was finished in time for
                    use during the 1954-1955 winter. Representing an estimated investment of $1,100,000, the
                    project has a rated storage capacity of 2,300,000,000 cubic feet. In order to improve the
                    field's daily deliverability or ability to supply gas for peak day demands, additional
                    wells have been drilled into the storage formation. This allows more gas to be pumped out of storage
                    on any given winter day. It also reduces the time required to recharge or refill the reservoir.
                    Increasing the number of wells to boost a storage field's daily deliverability is a common
                    practice.
            The value of underground storage to a gas utility is illustrated by the experience of the Southern
                    Indiana Gas and Electric Company. Following World War 11, this company, like most gas utilities,
                    could not supply the demand for space heating. Waiting lists for this gas service were compiled
                    regularly. Furthermore, to guard against the oversubscription of space heating customers by gas
                    utilities the state's regulatory agency, the Public Service Commission of Indiana, issued a
                    regulation on December 20, 1946, which is still in effect, prohibiting the addition of new space
                    heating customers without commission approval.15 Capitalizing on the advantages
                        
                  
                     15 Order Number 19035 of the Public Service Commission of Indiana. On
                            file in the offices of the Public Service Commission of Indiana, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     of its storage facility, this utility has not only been able to
                    erase its backlog of space heating requests but has been able actively to solicit new heating
                    business. The other Indiana gas utilities with underground storage facilities also have been able to
                    narrow the gap between supply and demand for heating gas within their service areas. For example,
                    one Indiana gas company which plans to have its storage reservoir in service for the 1958-1959
                    heating season estimates that a minimum of 4,200 and a maximum of 9,500 new space heating customers
                    can be served, thus greatly reducing its present backlog of approximately 10,400 applications.16 Generally speaking, however, gas utilities in Indiana are not in a position
                    to satisfy the demand for space heating gas. This is especially true of utilities in the heavily
                    populated northern portion of the state where as yet, unfortunately, storage strata have not been
                    successfully utilized.
            Since 1952 the Central Indiana Gas Company, which serves the 
                  Muncie-Marion
               -Anderson area, has
                    been conducting investigations as to the possibility of storing gas underground. After considerable
                    experimentation and consultation with geologists, a site has been selected. The project is located
                    in 
                        Randolph County
                     between the towns of Modoc and Unionport (fifteen miles southeast of 
                        Muncie
                    ). Situated only six miles from one of the company's pipe lines, this field
                    lies beneath the pipe line of its interstate supplier. The site's proximity to the existing
                    distribution and supply systems is an advantageous feature in that the cost of constructing
                    connecting gas lines from the supplier to the storage pool and then to the utility's
                    distribution system will be nominal. Because of the high costs of pipe line construction, a gas
                    utility must limit itself to explorations for underground storage within or near its general service
                        area.17 Observe the proximate location of the storage reservoirs to the
                    interstate transmission 
                  
                     16 These estimates of the Central Indiana Gas Company were contained
                            in an Order of the Public Service Commission of Indiana, Cause Nos. 27421, 27422, and 27465,
                            approved January 10, 1958.
                  
                     17 Construction costs in Indiana for a pipe line ten inches in
                            diameter would be $32,500 per mile. This representative cost figure was computed
                            by the Indiana Gas and Water Company for the year 1957. Then too, the longer the pipe line,
                            the greater the compressor capacity needed to move the gas through the line.
               
                     pipe lines, shown by the dashed lines, on the map of Indiana
                    (see page 269).18
            
            The company's tentative plans call for the storage of gas in the summer of 1958. The
                    drilling of additional wells into the storage formation to improve the factor of deliverability is
                    also planned. Costing a minimum of two million dollars, the Central Indiana Gas Company's
                    reservoir has been rated as having a storage capacity no less than two billion cubic feet.19 A geological formation (limestone) which once held natural gas is being
                    utilized in developing this reservoir-it formed a segment of the famous Trenton Field which was
                    discovered in Indiana in 1886.20 Extending to twenty-three counties in Indiana,
                    this vast gas field is outlined on the map (see page 269).21 In the short-lived
                    gas (and oil) boom which followed the discovery of the Trenton Field, thousands of wells were
                    drilled in the territory around the cities of 
                        Marion
                    , Anderson, and 
                        Muncie
                    , the service area occupied by this utility.22 Since it is in this
                    same territory that the utility's 
                  
                     18 The fpe line routes were taken from the map in the Annual Report of te Indiana Gas and Water Company for the Year Ending December 31,
                            1956 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1957), 12.
                  
                            
                        19 order of the Public Service Commission of Indiana in Cause Nos.
                                27421, 27422, and 27465, approved January 10, 1958. These conservative estimates given
                                by this utility stem from the fact that the actual capabilities and extent of the
                                resemir can be ascertained only through operational experience. In testifying before the
                                commission, the company asserted that expenditures might go as high as
                                $3,700,000 in developing their storage field.
                            One major item of expense concerns the drilling of additional wells. The company
                                calculated that the daily deliverability of its storage reservoir could be more than
                                doubled with the addition of new wells. The testimony mentioned the minimum daily
                                deliverability of eighty-nine wells. In 1957, there were thirty-four wells available for
                                injection into and withdrawal from the storage formation.
                        
                  
                     20 Margaret Wynn, "Natural Gas in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, IV (March, 1908), 33. One geologist in 1889
                            described the Trenton Field as "the largest connected field of high-pressure gas
                            that has yet been found in the world," Edward Orton, "The Trenton
                            Limestone as a Source of Petroleum and Inflammable Gas in 
                                Ohio
                             and Indiana," in Eighth Annual Report of the 
                                    United States
                                 Geological Survey, 1886-1887 (
                                Washington
                            , 1889), 632.
                  
                     21 This outline which represents the Trenton Field as a single
                            roductive area was taken from an oil and gas field map of Indiana tly T. A. Dawson and M. A.
                            Lowrance. The map was drawn in April, 1952, for the Indiana Geological Survey, Indiana
                            Department of Conservation.
                  
                     22 For an excellent account of this gas boom written shortly after the
                            boom ended, see Margaret Wynn, Indiana Magazine of History IV (March, 1908), 31-45. The
                            enormous waste of this natural resource, the extravagant use of natural gas, and the belated
                            and ineffective state 
               
                     storage site is situated, it is not surprising that the site
                    contained an unusually high number of old well holes, most of them unplugged or partially plugged.
                    Great care, therefore, had to be exercised in the search for possible sources of leakage from
                    unsealed holes. To assist the search, the utility collected all the available records showing the
                    location of abandoned gas wells in the vicinity of the storage site.23 A
                    thorough ground reconnaissance of the territory involved was also undertaken.24
            
            As mentioned earlier, one of the major problems confronting a gas utility in developing an
                    underground storage field is the leasing of storage rights of property above the reservoir. To begin
                    with, the difficulty in accurately determining the boundaries of the storage stratum means that a
                    utility does not know exactly how much area it should cover in purchasing property rights for gas
                    storage. The importance of having secured leases for all property overlying the reservoir, however,
                    prompts a utility to adopt a cautious attitude and purchase leases on any property which could
                    conceivably be located above the storage formation. Without this protection, numerous wells could be
                    drilled into the reservoir from unleased property and large quantities of "free"
                    gas produced. Then, there are the usual problems encountered in negotiating with recalcitrant
                    property owners for the sale of storage rights. To avoid the delays and ill feelings associated with
                    condemnation proceedings, a utility generally will try to 
                  
                            legislation are described. All of these factors contributed to the rapid depletion and
                                exhaustion of the Trenton Field; 1906 marked the end of the production of natural gas as
                                a commercial product.
                            A general discussion of the drilling operations during 1886, the year the Trenton Field
                                was discovered, is provided by Maurice Thompson, state geologist, in Fifteenth Annual Report of the Indiana Department of Geology and Natural
                                History (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1886), 314-333.
                            The development of the city of 
                                    Muncie
                                 is emphasized in the story of Indiana's gas boom as related by
                                John B. Martin, Indiana: An Interpretation (
                                    New York
                                , 1947), 75-86.
                        
                  
                     23 In checking these records there was evidence that some drillers had
                            purposely recorded false and inaccurate information to prevent competitors from exploring
                            adjacent sites. Obviously, such records are both misleading and worthless.
                  
                     24 In the event that this project should prove to be unsatisfactory
                            because of undiscovered holes unknown fractures in the formation, or the lack of proper
                            geological structure to form a closed or defined reservoir, the company can execute the
                            alternate plan it has prepared. It appears that an extensive layer of sandstone lying
                            beneath the Trenton limestone could be utilized to store gas. The utility need only drill
                            through the Trenton formation to reach the sandstone.
               
                     settle such matters out of court. Lastly, a utility's
                    decision to develop an underground storage field in a particular area is always considered a company
                    secret. An effort is made to keep this information from the general public since advance public
                    knowledge of such plans tends to inflate prices for storage rights. Illustrative of this secrecy
                    policy, the Central Indiana Gas Company, in selecting its storage site, carried on an extensive
                    program of investigation sub rosa. Data were complied and analyzed on thousands of abandoned,
                    depleted gas wells within its service area before the public was aware of this plan to construct a
                    subterranean gas reservoir.
            The Hoosier Gas Corporation, which serves the territory in and around the cities of 
                        Vincennes
                     (
                        Knox County
                    ) and 
                        Washington
                     (
                        Daviess County
                    ), has recently placed in service an underground storage field. Known as the North
                    Glendale Field, it is situated seven miles southeast of the city of 
                        Washington
                    . Construction was started in the spring of 1955, and the first input of storage gas
                    occurred in the summer months of the following year. Utilizing an exhausted gas field, a reservoir
                    with a capacity of five hundred million cubic feet was created.
            Indiana Gas and Water Company completes the list of gas utilities in Indiana that have made use of
                    the technique of underground storage of gas. This utility, serving central and southern Indiana, has
                    two installations in operation and a third project under construction. The company's first
                    storage project was started, completed, and placed in service during 1950. Located five miles south
                    of the city of Greens-burg in 
                        Decatur County
                    , a producing gas field owned by the company was simply converted into a storage
                    reservoir. The reservoir serves the area around the city of 
                        Greensburg
                    . The storage capacity of this field is 1,000,000,000 cubic feet. The second project was
                    constructed from an old, depleted gas field located just west of the town of Unionville (five miles
                    northeast of 
                        Bloomington
                    ) in 
                        Monroe County
                    . The Unionville Field, representing a $500,000 investment, has a capacity of
                    1,700,000,000 cubic feet. The project was initiated in the winter of 1953; the first year of input
                    began in the fall of 1954. The capacity of the Unionville Field, like that of the Oliver Field of
                    the Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company, is such that all requests for space heating gas  have been fulfilled on the system served by the storage
                    reservoir. The service territory of this system includes the cities of 
                  Mitchell, Bedford, Bloomington, Martinsville,
                            Franklin, Shelbyville, Columbus
               , and
                    Seymour.
            At the present time, the Indiana Gas and Water Company is working on a third storage site in and
                    around the town of Westpoint (ten miles southwest of 
                        Lafayette
                    ) in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    . Started early in 1956, experimentation is still being carried on to ascertain the
                    suitability and storage potential of a non-gas bearing structure, water-bearing limestone. When
                    completed the reservoir will serve such cities as 
                        Lafayette
                    , West 
                        Lafayette
                    , and 
                        Crawfordsville
                    .
            As for the future plans of the above-mentioned gas utilities concerning underground storage, no
                    particulars are available for publication or public announcement. As a general policy such matters
                    are treated as confidential. However, it is safe to say that the utilities already named, as well as
                    the other Indiana gas companies, are interested in finding additional storage sites. Some are
                    currently engaged in preliminary investigations and explorations with this objective in mind.
            The greatest potential for underground storage development lies in the central and southern sections
                    of Indiana where the state's natural gas fields, now depleted, are located and where
                    geological formations of a non-gas bearing nature are most favorable for holding gas. It is here
                    that gas utilities, including interstate transmission corporations, are centering their attention.
                    The 
                        Texas
                     Gas Transmission Corporation is only one of four interstate suppliers with pipe lines
                    running through this portion of the state which are interested in developing underground storage
                        facilities.25
            
            With both interstate and intrastate gas utilities seeking appropriate storage sites in the state,
                    further underground storage developments are a certainty. Indiana residents and businesses are thus
                    assured a greater natural gas supply to meet the ever-increasing demand for this premium heating
                    fuel.
            
               
                  25 The other transmission corporations are American-
                     Louisiana, Texas
                   Eastern, and Panhandle Eastern.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            Discovery of Natural Gas at 
                        Kokomo
                    
            
            
                    Contributed by Mrs. John F. Richardson
                    *
                
            Although various gas wells had been drilled in Indiana before 1886, it was in that year that the
                    natural gas boom got under way. Natural gas fields, however, had earlier been discovered and used in
                    both 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . In fact, the discovery of gas near 
                  Findlay, Ohio
               , in 1884
                    apparently touched off the Indiana boom. On March 14, 1886 a successful well was opened near 
                        Portland
                    , in 
                        Jay County
                    .
            The memorandum of agreement which follows is dated only eight days after the opening of the well at 
                        Portland
                    . Whether it was an immediate result of the discovery at 
                        Portland
                     or had already been planned is unknown, but it clearly represents a pioneer effort in
                    the budding natural gas boom. On March 30, 1886 the 
                        Kokomo
                    
                    Gazette-Tribune described the new venture: 
                        Shall We Bore for Gas?
                        There is a move on foot, as yet in the embryotic [sic] state, to tap this
                            terrestrial ball somewhere in the immediate vicinity of 
                                Kokomo
                             for natural gas. Archie Comstock has started a paper in order to get if
                            possible the exact throbbings of our pulse on the natural gas question. When last seen
                            $1,400 was subscribed for perforating purposes. We venture to ask, that in case
                            an inexhaustible supply of this dangerous combustion is found, who's going to pay
                            for spoiling all our good drinking water, and ruining our good fishing holes along Wildeat?
                            and [sic] for inflicting our olfactory organs with a continual smell of
                            coal oil? These are questions of grave importance that should be looked after at once.
                    The boring for gas at 
                        Kokomo
                     began on September 13, 1886, and gas was struck on October 6 at a depth of slightly
                    over 900 feet. More than five thousand other gas wells were opened in Indiana in the years
                    1886-1897, but by the latter date more than half of them had already been closed.
            The men named on the memorandum of agreement to prospect for gas in 
                        Kokomo
                     included prominent local business and professional men. Professor Clarence V. Haworth
                    of 
                  
                     * Mrs. John F. Richardson is Curator of the County Museum
                            operated by the 
                                Howard County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Kokomo
                            . The editors are indebted to Professor Clarence V. Haworth for editorial
                            assistance. A former superintent of 
                                Kokomo
                             Schools and former member of the teaching staff of the 
                                Kokomo
                             Center of Indiana University, Professor Haworth has long been a student of
                            Indiana history.
               
                    
                    
                        Kokomo
                     remembers his acquaintance with about half of them. The memorandum illustrates one
                    method of raising money to bore for gas in the early days of the boom. Perhaps its publication will
                    encourage other persons to submit additional documents concerning the discovery, development, and
                    impact of natural gas in Indiana. Moreover, the significance of natural gas as a factor which
                    encouraged industrialization in the region which includes the cities of 
                  Kokomo, Marion, Hartford City, Muncie
                        New Castle, Anderson,
                            Elwood
               , and 
                        Noblesville
                     needs further study by historians.1
            
            
               
                        Kokomo
                     Inda. March 22 [1886]
            The object of this paper i[s] to ascertain if there are a sufficient number of person [s] in this
                    city willing to subscribe One Hundred Dollars each for the purpose of boring for gas a distance of
                    not less than two thousand (2000) feet. The names of those willing to subscribe the above amount
                    ($100.) provided the scheme is properly and satisfactorily organized are as
                        follows:—2
            
            
               1 A. Y. Comstock
               2 D. C. Spraker
               3 J. C. Blacklidge
               4 J. M. Leach
               5 S. Davis & Sons
               6 Armstrong Landon & Co
               7 R. Q. Wilson
               8 J. C. Dolman
               9 John W. Slider
               10 E. Quaintance
               11 Russell Dolman & Co
               12 J. O. Henderson
               13 J. McClean Moulder
               14 W. H. Sellers
               15 J. W. Cooper
               16 J. B. Michener
               17 Henry Hunt
               18 Dixon & Co
               19 Bell and Purdum
               20 W. A. Stuart
               21 G. W. Defenbaugh
               22 Geo. W. Stidger
               23
               24
               25
               26
               27
               28
               29
               30
            
            
               
                  1 The discovery and early use of natural gas in Indiana are described in:
                        Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (3rd ed., 2 vols.; 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Ind., 1924), II, 911-913; Margaret Wynn, "Natural Gas in Indiana, Indiana Magazine of History, IV (March, 1908), 31-45; Jackson Morrow, History of 
                                Howard County
                             Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , n.d.), I, 232-240.
               
                  2 In reproducing the document, original spelling and punctuation have been
                        faithfully followed except in the list of persons subscribing to the gas prospecting scheme.
                        Since the signatures were inconsistent, periods have been added after initials for the sake of
                        uniformity.
            
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Honey Creek Monthly Meeting of Friends
            
                    Willard G. Heiss
                    *
                
            It seems fitting in this centennial year of the Western Yearly Meeting of the Society of Friends that
                    some account be given of one of its earliest monthly meetings. The oldest monthly meeting within the
                    boundaries of Western Yearly Meeting is Lick Creek in 
                        Orange County
                    , established in 1813; the second is Blue River in 
                        Washington County
                    , established in 1815. The third oldest monthly meeting was Honey Creek in 
                        Vigo County
                    , which was set off from Lick Creek Monthly Meeting and established September 9, 1820.
                    At this time Honey Creek included all Friends that lived in central and western Indiana; as other
                    monthly meetings were set up, the boundaries of Honey Creek were narrowed to western Indiana and
                    eastern 
                        Illinois
                    . On February 14, 1829, the meeting was laid down and the membership attached to 
                        Bloomfield
                     Monthly Meeting. The reason for its discontinuance is not known; it has been stated
                    that it was due to the Hicksite controversy, but there is no evidence of this in the minutes.
            At the time of the opening of the meeting in 
                        Vigo County
                    , two settlements are mentioned: "Honey Creek on the 
                        Wabash
                    " and "the settlement on the west side of the 
                        Wabash
                    ," which was soon established as Union preparative meeting. Meetings set up
                    under Honey Creek were as follows: 
                  
                     Turmins Creek meeting, indulged 1822; preparative 1826 and name changed
                            to Fairland meeting. Located in 
                                Sullivan County
                            .
                  
                     Spring Creek meeting, indulged 1822. Location unknown.
                  
                     
                                
                                    Vermillion
                                
                             meeting, preparative and worship 1823; set off as a monthly meeting 1826. Located in
                                    
                        Vermilion County, Illinois
                     .
               
                    
                  
                     * Willard G. Heiss is an 
                                Indianapolis
                                Quaker
                             who has long been interested in the history of his church and the preservation
                            of its records. This item has been edited by Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical
                        Bureau.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Leatherwood meeting, indulged 1826. Location unknown.
                  
                     Elevatis meeting, preparative and worship 1826; set off as a monthly
                            meeting 1827 and name changed to 
                        
                                    Bloomfield
                                . Located in 
                                Parke County
                            .
               
            
            The exact location of the Honey Creek Meetinghouse is not known to this writer. Evan Hadley writes of
                    it as being "on the 
                        Wabash
                     south of 
                        Terre Haute
                    ." It was not until April, 1822, that trustees were appointed to hold title to
                    the property. They were William Durham and Moses Hoggatt. Schools were conducted by the Honey Creek
                    and Turmins Creek meetings as early as 1824.
            The following records were compiled from a photostat of the Men's Minutes of the Honey Creek
                    Monthly Meeting, September 9, 1820 to May 14, 1825, in the Genealogy Division, Indiana State
                    Library; from the Women's Minutes, October 8, 1825 to February 14, 1829; and from loose
                    pages containing marriage records and removals located at the meetinghouse of the Western Yearly
                    Meeting at 
                        Plainfield
                    , Indiana. The abbreviations are those commonly used in transcribing 
                        Quaker
                     records.
            ABBREVIATIONS
            
               
                  appt to
                  
                  mcd
                  marriage contrary to
               
               
                  comm
                  appointed to committee
                   
                  discipline
               
               
                  att mcd
                  attendance at a marriage
                  mem
                  member
               
               
                   
                  contrary to discipline
                  misc
                  misconduct
               
               
                  cert
                  certificate
                  MM
                  Monthly Meeting
               
               
                  ch
                  children
                  mtg
                  preparative meeting
               
               
                  compl
                  complained of
                  rec
                  received
               
               
                  con
                  condemned
                  rem
                  removed
               
               
                  dt (S)
                  daughter (S)
                  req
                  request (ed)
               
               
                  dtd
                  dated
                  ret
                  return (ed)
               
               
                  dis
                  disowned
                  rocf
                  received on certificate
               
               
                  gct
                  given certificate to
                   
                  from
               
               
                  Jas
                  joined another society
                  rqct
                  request certificate to
               
               
                  m
                  marriage, married,
                  s(s)
                  son (s)
               
               
                   
                  marry
                  w
                  wife
               
            
            
            ABSTRACTS OF HONEY CREEK MARRIAGE RECORDS
            
               
                  10-?-1824
                  Joel Haworth & Susannah Haworth (this certificate missing)
               
               
                  1-19-1826
                  Aaron Stanley, Dover MM, Guilford Co., NC, son of Michael & Mary Stanley
                            of the same place, to Mahala Stanley, dt of John & Elizabeth Stanley of Turmins
                            Creek, 
                                Sullivan
                             co.
               
               
                   
                  At Turmins Creek Meetinghouse. Witnesses:
               
               
                   
                  Warmonious Akine
                  Anselm Hunt
                  Zimri Hunt
               
               
                   
                  William Dicks
                  Mary Hunt Jr
                  Asher Hunt
               
               
                   
                  Nathan Hunt
                  Mary Hunt
                  Jonathan Jessop
               
               
                   
                  Anna Dicks
                  Anna Hunt
                  James Hunt
               
               
                   
                  Anna Hunt
                  Elizabeth Dicks
                  William Hunt
               
               
                   
                  R Davis
                  Hannah Wilson
                  Delana Stanley
               
               
                   
                  J Riggs
                  Sarah Hunt
                  William Currey
               
               
                   
                  Asael Hunt
                  Abner Hunt
                  Jesse Dicks
               
               
                   
                  Solomon Hunt
                  Abigail Hunt
                  Joshua Dicks
               
               
                   
                  Aaron Hoggatt
                  John Stanley
                  Elizabeth Dicks
               
               
                   
                  Robert Hoggatt
                  Elizabeth Stanley
                  Elizabeth Hunt
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                  Gabriel Wilson
               
               
                  9-12-1827
                  Ezekial Rubottom, of Elevatis settlement in 
                                Parke
                             Co. Ind., son of Simon & Elizabeth Rubottom, to Jane Coate, dt of
                            William & Elizabeth Coate of the same place
               
               
                   
                  At Elevatis Meetinghouse. Witnesses:
               
               
                   
                  Mary Mote
                  Simon Rubottom
                  John Rubottom
               
               
                   
                  Mary Hoggatt
                  Elizabeth Rubottom
                  Samuel Kelly
               
               
                   
                  Hannah Wilson
                  William Coate
                  Samuel Rubottom
               
               
                   
                  John Commons
                  Elizabeth Coate
                  Nathaniel Newlin
               
               
                   
                  Thomas Rubottom
                  Ruth Reynolds
                  Mahlon Reynolds
               
               
                   
                  Samuel Haworth
                  Mary Kelly
                  Jer. W. Siler
               
               
                   
                  Warner Davis
                  Mahala Rubottom
                  Betty Holaday
               
               
                  10-17-1827
                  James Siler, son of Adam & Sarah Siler of 
                                Parke
                             Co., Ind. to Hannah Newlin, dt of Nathaniel & Catherine Newlin of same
                            place
               
               
                   
                  At Elevatis Meetinghouse. Witnesses:
               
               
                   
                  Thomas Carty
                  Nathan Hunt
                  Abraham Holaday
               
               
                   
                  Duncan Newlin
                  Elizabeth Davis
                  Eleanor Newlin
               
               
                   
                  John Newlin
                  Rebecca Davis
                  Mary Morrison
               
               
                   
                  Thomas Woody
                  Abraham Hadley
                  Enoch Morrison
               
               
                   
                  Hannah Wilson
                  Nathan Harvey
                  Jacob Newlin
               
               
                   
                  Samuel Davis
                  John Marshall
                  Joseph Hadley
               
               
                   
                  James Cox
                  Adam Siler
                  Thomas Rubottom
               
               
                   
                  John Maris
                  Nathaniel Newlin
                  Samuel Haworth
               
               
                   
                  Paton Wilson
                  Philip Siler
                  William Hunt
               
               
                   
                  Ruth Harvey
                  Jer. W. Siler
                  Simon Rubottom
               
               
                   
                  Enoch Kersey
                  Jacob Hoggatt
                   
               
            
            
            FAMILY REFERENCES IN RECORDS OF HONEY CREEK MONTHLY MEETING
            
               
                  ALLEN
               
               
                  7-14-1827
                  Amy & dt Emily rocf Greenplain MM, O, dtd 4-4-1827
               
               
                  ARNOLD
               
               
                  8-14-1824
                  Raiford, Joseph & s Michael rocf Contentney MM, NC, dtd 3-8-1823; endorsed to
                                Blue River MM
               
               
                  ATKINSON
               
               
                  1-13-1829
                  Rebecca Crow (formerly Atkinson) rqct Lick Creek MM; 2-14-1829 as mtg was laid down
                            & she having removed, Lick Creek requested to treat with her
               
               
                  BALEY
               
               
                  9-9-1820
                  Benjamin appt to comm
               
               
                  BARNARD
               
               
                  3-12-1825
                  Frederick rocf 
                                Fall Creek
                             MM, O, dtd 2-21-1824
               
               
                  1-13-1827
                  Mary rocf [
                                Fall Creek
                             MM, O] dtd 12-24-1826 & directed to 
                                Vermillion
                             MM, Ill.
               
               
                  BARNETT
               
               
                  10-8-1825
                  Betty rocf 
                                Dover
                             MM, O, dtd 8-6-1825
               
               
                  BENNETT
               
               
                  2-14-1824
                  James, of Honey Creek mtg, received on request
               
               
                  BIRKBECK
               
               
                  1-10-1824
                  Elizabeth, Prudence, Bradford & Charles rocf Guilford MM, Surrey Co., 
                                England
                            , dtd 4-12-1818 (copy of original certificate states, "being removed to
                            English 
                        Prairie, Illinois
                      Territory," and is addressed to
                            Whitewater MM; there is no notice in that record)
               
               
                  BISHOP
               
               
                  7-12-1828
                  Ruth & dt Celia rocf Contentney MM, NC, dtd 3-8-1828
               
               
                  BRAY
               
               
                  1-12-1822
                  John H rocf Lick Creek MM, dtd 11-24-1821
               
               
                  BROWN
               
               
                  7-8-1826
                  Mary & dts gct White Lick MM
               
               
                  BUCKNER
               
               
                  1-12-1822
                  
                     
                        Henry, Union
                      mtg compl for mustering; 3-9-1822 dis
               
               
                  6-10-1826
                  Patsey con att mcd
               
               
                  6-14-1828
                  Martha compl for att mcd; 9-13-1828 die
               
               
                  CANADAY
               
               
                  2-9-1822
                  Henry & ss Frederick & William rocf Springfield MM, Ind., dtd
                        7-2-1822
               
               
                  6-8-1822
                  Henry & family gct Lost Creek MM, Tenn.
               
               
                  10-9-1824
                  Benjamin, Springfield MM req this mtg to treat for mcd; 12-2-1825 con his misc & 
                                Springfield
                             MM informed
               
               
                  11-13-1824
                  Henry & family, who was gct Lost Creek MM, Tenn. & cert was lost, has
                            since ret & settled in this mtg
               
               
               
                  CASY
               
               
                  9-8-1827
                  Lavina rocf West Branch MM, O, dtd 4-21-1827
               
               
                  COATE
               
               
                  3-10-1827
                  Elizabeth & dts Jane, Sally & Elizabeth rocf Union MM, O, dtd
                        9-2-1826
               
               
                  9-12-1827
                  Jane m Ezekial Rubottom (see abstract of m cert)
               
               
                  COOK
               
               
                  2-11-1826
                  Rebecca & dts Mary & Anna rocf Silver Creek MM, dtd 11-26-1825
               
               
                  6-10-1826
                  Kezia & dts Rebecca, Mary, Elizabeth & Sally rocf Silver Creek MM, dtd
                            4-22-1826
               
               
                  COONROD
               
               
                  7-8-1826
                  Rebecca, Union mtg compl for mcd; 9-9-1826 dis
               
               
                  COOPER
               
               
                  5-12-1827
                  Elizabeth, Horsham MM, Pa., req this mtg to treat for mcd; 2-9-1828 visited with no
                            satisfaction, Horsham informed; 7-12-1828 dis rec from Horsham MM
               
               
                  COX
               
               
                  10-14-1820
                  John appt overseer at Honey Creek mtg
               
               
                  7-14-1821
                  John appt treasurer of MM
               
               
                  7-13-1822
                  William, Honey Creek mtg, compl for mcd & mustering; 11-9-1822 con his misc
               
               
                  3-13-1824
                  Isaac & ss Richard Albertson & Isaac Parker rocf Contentney MM, NC, dtd
                            3-8-1823; endorsed to Driftwood MM
               
               
                  12-11-1824
                  Richard rocf 
                                New Garden
                             MM, NC, dtd 8-28-1824
               
               
                  7-8-1826
                  Mary & dts Mary, Elizabeth, Orpha & Charlotte rocf Contenteny MM, NC, dtd
                            4-12-1823
               
               
                  8-12-1826
                  Mary gct Driftwood MM
               
               
                  10-14-1826
                  Charity & dts Susannah & Mary rocf —– &
                            endorsed to 
                                Vermillion
                             MM
               
               
                  6-9-1827
                  Ruth & Mary, minor dts of David, rocf 
                                Miami
                             MM, O, dtd 1-24-1826
               
               
                  4-12-1828
                  Deborah, Union mtg compl for mcd
               
               
                  12-13-1828
                  Zilpha appt overseer at Union mtg
               
               
                  CROW
               
               
                  9-9-1820
                  Reuben appt to comm
               
               
                  4-14-1821
                  Joshua appt to comm
               
               
                  7-14-1821
                  Elizabeth disowned
               
               
                  7-12-1823
                  Joshua appt overseer at Union mtg in room of Jesse Reynolds
               
               
                  2-12-1825
                  Joshua gct Lick Creek MM
               
               
                  1-13-1829
                  Rebecca, see Atkinson
               
               
                  DAVIS
               
               
                  5-13-1826
                  Milly & dts Alice, Elizabeth, Jane, Caroline, Irena, Rumina & Ruhama rocf
                            Lick Creek MM, dtd 4-15-1826
               
               
                  9-8-1827
                  Elizabeth rocf Exeter MM, Pa., dtd 5-30-1827 Rebecca & Lydia, minor dts of Joseph,
                            rocf Exeter MM, Pa., dtd 5-30-1827
               
               
               
                  DAWSON
               
               
                  8-10-1822
                  John & Daniel Jr rocf Lick Creek MM, dtd 7-27-1822
               
               
                  6-12-1824
                  John gct Lick Creek MM (already removed) Daniel Jr, Union mtg compl for horse racing and
                            fighting; 10-9-1824 Lick Creek MM req to treat with him; 11-13-1824 he has since ret within
                            this mtg; 12-11-1824 dis
               
               
                  5-14-1825
                  Daniel rocf Lick Creek MM, dtd 3-19-1824
               
               
                  DILLON
               
               
                  2-11-1826
                  Gulielma rocf 
                                Springfield
                             MM, O, dtd 9-24-1825 & endorsed from 
                                Milford
                             MM
               
               
                  DIX—DICKS
               
               
                  3-10-1821
                  Joshua & s Jesse, William & s Eli, Seth rocf 
                                New Garden
                             MM, NC
               
               
                  9-12-1823
                  Joshua "expressed a prospect he had of visiting his children & friends in
                            his native country on his lawful concerns & social affairs, this meeting therefore
                            thinks proper" to grant him a cert
               
               
                  5-8-1824
                  William (Dicks) appt overseer at Turmins Creek mtg in room of Asher Hunt
               
               
                  12-11-1824
                  Job (Dicks) rocf 
                                New Garden
                             MM, NC, dtd 8-28-1824
               
               
                  12-10-1825
                  Elizabeth (Dicks) appt to comm
               
               
                  11-11-1826
                  Hannah appt overseer at Turmins Creek mtg
               
               
                  DRAPER
               
               
                  5-12-1827
                  Nancy, Union mtg compl for att mcd; 9-8-1827 dis
               
               
                  DURHAM
               
               
                  9-9-1820
                  William appt clerk for day of opening of MM
               
               
                  3-10-1821
                  Thomas rocf Newberry MM, Blount Go., Tenn., dtd 1-4-1817
               
               
                  10-13-1821
                  Thomas gct Lick Creek MM to m
               
               
                  1-11-1823
                  Daniel rocf Newberry MM, Tenn., dtd 11-2-1822
               
               
                  3-8-1823
                  William H con his mcd
               
               
                  5-8-1824
                  Daniel appt overseer in room of Joseph Noblitt
               
               
                  1-14-1826
                  Jane appt to comm
               
               
                  3-11-1826
                  Jane con her mcd
               
               
                  3-8-1828
                  Jane appt overseer at Honey Creek mtg
               
               
                  EVANS
               
               
                  1-12-1822
                  Daniel, Union mtg compl for mustering; 3-9-1822 dis
               
               
                  2-14-1824
                  Willis, Union mtg compl for fighting & mcd; 7-10-1824 dis
               
               
                  2-12-1826
                  Calvin rocf 
                                New Garden
                             MM, NC, dM 7-31-1824
               
               
                  6-10-1826
                  Elizabeth, Anna & Abigail con att mcd
               
               
                  5-12-1827
                  Rachel & Nancy, compl for att mcd; 9-8-1827 dis
               
               
                  6-14-1828
                  Elizabeth & Abigail, compl for att mcd; 9-13-1828 dis
               
               
                  FERRIL
               
               
                  8-14-1824
                  Rebecca dis
               
               
                  FORSTER
               
               
                  2-10-1821
                  William rocf 
                                New Garden
                             MM, NC, dtd 7-29-1820; endorsed by Lick Creek MM
               
               
               
                  3-10-1821
                  William, Honey Creek mtg compl for mcd; 5-12-1821 con his misc; 3-9-1822 compl for taking
                            too much strong drink and for offering to fight; 5-11-1822 dis
               
               
                  GREEN
               
               
                  4-8-1826
                  Hannah compl of for dancing & deviating from plainness of dress; 7-8-1826
                        dis
               
               
                  GUIRE
               
               
                  6-2-1821
                  Axiom, con his mcd; 7-12-1823 appt overseer at Union mtg
               
               
                  HAMILTON
               
               
                  12-13-1828
                  Gulielma con her mcd
               
               
                  HANDY
               
               
                  8-14-1824
                  Jane dis
               
               
                  HARRISON
               
               
                  10-14-1820
                  Henry appt overseer at Union mtg
               
               
                  HASKET
               
               
                  12-8-1821
                  Ralph, Union mtg compl for mcd & mustering; 3-9-1822 dis
               
               
                  HAWORTH
               
               
                  3-10-1821
                  Jeremiah & ss Barnabas & Thomas rec on req
               
               
                  12-8-1821
                  Jonathan & s David rocf Lost Creek MM, Tenn., dtd 4-29-1820; endorsed by Silver
                            Creek MM, Ind., dtd 3-10-1821
               
               
                  12-8-1821
                  Richard rocf —–, dtd 12-9-1820
               
               
                  3-9-1822
                  John & ss Mourman, George, Mahlon, John, Allen & Harmon rocf Center MM, O,
                            dtd 8-18-1821
               
               
                  6-14-1823
                  James & ss George, Jonathan, James, Eli, Mahlon & William rocf Center MM,
                            O, dtd 10-19-1822
               
               
                  9-13-1823
                  John & ss Joel, Thomas, David, Calvin & James rocf Silver Creek MM, dtd
                            12-16-1822
               
               
                  12-13-1823
                  Richard appt overseer at 
                                Vermillion
                             mtg
               
               
                  9-11-1824
                  Joel & Susannah Haworth declared intention to marry; 10-9-1824 given liberty to
                            marry; 11-13-1824 marriage reported
               
               
                  1-8-1825
                  Samuel & ss Job, Moses, Josiah & Samuel rocf 
                                Springfield
                             MM, NC, dtd 12-10-1823
               
               
                  10-8-1825
                  Joann rocf Center MM, O, dtd 2-18-1826
               
               
                  HENDERSON
               
               
                  2-11-1826
                  Annas & Asenith rocf Silver Creek MM, dtd 11-26-1826
               
               
                  HOGGATT-HOCKETT
               
               
                  9-9-1820
                  Moses appt to comm
               
               
                  3-10-1821
                  Deborah appt elder
               
               
                  4-14-1821
                  Robert appt to comm
               
               
                  4-12-1823
                  Robert gct Lick Creek MM to m Mary Johnson
               
               
                  8-14-1824
                  Moses appt elder
               
               
                  11-13-1824
                  Jacob (Hockett) rocf Center MM, NC, dM 9-18-1824
               
               
               
                  12-11-1824
                  Aaron con his taking too much strong drink
               
               
                  1-14-1826
                  Deborah appt to comm
               
               
                  3-10-1827
                  Mary rocf Lick Creek, MM, dtd 2-17-1826
               
               
                  10-12-1827
                  Ann rocf 
                                Springfield
                             MM, dtd 4-11-1827; endorsed from White Lick MM
               
               
                  HOLLADAY
               
               
                  9-9-1820
                  Robert appt to comm
               
               
                  11-13-1824
                  Robert appt overseer at Union mtg in room of Joshua Crow
               
               
                  9-8-1827
                  Elizabeth appt to comm.
               
               
                  12-13-1828
                  Margaret appt overseer at Union mtg
               
               
                  HOLLINGSWORTH
               
               
                  11-10-1821
                  Thomas rec by req
               
               
                  —–
                  James & w Rachel & ch George, Ruth, Sarah, Jonathan, James, Eli, Mahlon,
                            Susanna & William rocf Center MM, O, dtd 10-19-1822
               
               
                  HUCKABY
               
               
                  5-10-1823
                  Lewis, Lick Creek MM req this meeting to treat with him for mcd; 6-14-1823 con his misc,
                            Lick Creek informed; 9-11-1823 rocf Lick Creek MM, dtd 6-28-1823
               
               
                  5-14-1825
                  Lewis & w gct Lick Creek MM
               
               
                  HUNT
               
               
                  3-10-1821
                  Anselm, Abner & ss Solomon, Phineas & Elihu, Zimri & ss Nathan
                            & William rocf 
                                New Garden
                             MM, NC
               
               
                  6-2-1821
                  Asher & ss Elihu, Eri & Ira rocf 
                                New Garden
                             MM, NC, dtd 2-24-1821
               
               
                  8-11-1821
                  Asher appt overseer at Turmins Creek mtg
               
               
                  11-13-1824
                  William rocf 
                                New Garden
                             MM, NC, dtd 7-31-1824
               
               
                  12-10-1825
                  Ann appt to comm
               
               
                  1-14-1826
                  Jane appt to comm
               
               
                  5-13-1826
                  Mary appt to comm
               
               
                  JEFFCOAT
               
               
                  10-8-1825
                  Rebecca appt to comm
               
               
                  JENNY
               
               
                  4-12-1828
                  Jane, Union mtg compl for mcd & permitting it in her home and supporting a
                            hireling minister; 8-9-1828 con her misc
               
               
                  JESSUP
               
               
                  8-11-1821
                  Jonathan rocf 
                                New Garden
                             MM, NC, dtd 10-28-1820; endorsed by 
                                New Garden
                             MM, Ind.
               
               
                  9-8-1821
                  Jonathan con his mcd
               
               
                  10-12-1827
                  Hannah, Elevatis mtg compl for mcd; 1-12-1828 dis
               
               
                  JOHNSON
               
               
                  4-?-1827
                  Anna compl for mcd; 6-9-1827 dis
               
               
               
                  JONES
               
               
                  1-14-1826
                  Mary appt to comm
               
               
                  1-13-1827
                  Mary rocf 
                                Springfield
                             MM, dtd 8-26-1826
               
               
                  KELLY
               
               
                  5-13-1826
                  Mary rocf Union MM, O, dtd 4-1-1826
               
               
                  10-12-1827
                  Esther, Mary & Rhoda rocf Union MM, O, dtd 8-4-1827
               
               
                  LACY
               
               
                  12-8-1821
                  Evans, Union mtg compl for mcd; 3-9-1822 dis
               
               
                  LAYWOOD
               
               
                  5-12-1827
                  Achsah, Union mtg compl for mcd; 9-8-1827 dis
               
               
                  LEWIS
               
               
                  2-11-1826
                  Martha rocf Silver Creek MM, dtd 11-26-1825
               
               
                  6-10-1826
                  Judith & dts Rachel & Mary rocf Silver Creek MM; endorsed from White Lick
                            MM
               
               
                  6-10-1826
                  Anna & dts Maryann & Martha rocf Silver Creek MM, dtd 4-22-1826
               
               
                  LINDLEY
               
               
                  9-14-1822
                  Thomas & ss Abraham, William, John & Morton rocf Lick Creek MM, dtd
                            8-31-1822
               
               
                  4-12-1825
                  Jane appt to comm
               
               
                  LINNEY
               
               
                  7-8-1826
                  Margaret, Union mtg compl for mcd; 9-9-1826 dis
               
               
                  LOWDER
               
               
                  3-10-1827
                  Rachel rocf Lick Creek MM, dtd 2-17-1827
               
               
                  MARDOCK
               
               
                  7-12-1823
                  Isaac, a minor, rocf Cherry Grove MM, Ind., dtd 11-14-1822
               
               
                  MARIS
               
               
                  12-9-1826
                  Sarah & dts Eleanor Chambers, Katherine, Jane, Rebeccana & Martha Lindley
                            & her grdt Sarah Jane Maria, rocf Lick Creek MM
               
               
                  MENDENHALL
               
               
                  9-14-1822
                  William rocf West Branch MM, o, dtd 10-20-1821
               
               
                  MILES
               
               
                  1-14-1826
                  Edith compl for mcd; 3-11-1826 dis
               
               
                  1-12-1828
                  Mary con her mcd
               
               
                  MILLS
               
               
                  4-10-1824
                  John & ss William, Ira, Millikan & John Marshall rocf Lost Creek MM,
                            Tern., dtd 4-27-1822
               
               
                  MORRIS
               
               
                  6-14-1823
                  Eli con his mcd
               
               
                  12-10-1825
                  family of Eli given certificate
               
               
                  MORRISON
               
               
                  11-11-1826
                  Mary rocf Spring MM, NC, dtd 8-26-1826
               
               
               
                  MOTE
               
               
                  12-9-1820
                  Jeremiah appt to comm.
               
               
                  7-14-1821
                  William appt to comm
               
               
                  3-9-1822
                  David & ss Smith, Zeno, Markus & Linus rocf West Branch MM, O, dM
                            10-20-1821
               
               
                  6-8-1822
                  William appt overseer at Honey Creek mtg
               
               
                  10-12-1822
                  Joseph & family gct West Branch MM
               
               
                  12-14-1822
                  Isaiah con his taking too much strong drink
               
               
                  [6-11-1825]
                  Aaron gct West Branch MM, O (already rem)
               
               
                  6-10-1826
                  Sarah compl for att mcd & jas; 9-9-1826 dis
               
               
                  MUSGRAVE
               
               
                  10-14-1826
                  Arcada & dts Laricy & Sally Ann rocf Contentney MM, NC, dtd 3-11-26
               
               
                  6-14-1828
                  Avis & dts Elizabeth, Rebecca & Charity rocf Contentney MM, NC, dtd
                            2-9-1828
               
               
                  NEWLIN
               
               
                  9-9-1820
                  John appt to comm
               
               
                  7-14-1821
                  Nathaniel and William, Union mtg compl for mcd; 9-8-1821 dis
               
               
                  2-12-1825
                  Jonathan, Union mtg compl for mcd
               
               
                  11-11-1826
                  Ruth, Katharine & dts Hannah, Eleanor & Ruth, Sarah & dt Sinai
                            rocf Spring MM, NC, dtd 8-26-1826 10-17-1827 Hannah m James Siler (see abstract of m
                        cert)
               
               
                  NOBLITT
               
               
                  9-9-1820
                  Joseph appt to comm; 2-8-1823 appt overseer at Honey Creek mtg
               
               
                  PEMBERTON
               
               
                  10-12-1827
                  Elizabeth & dts Esther, Susannah, Rhoda & Tace Eleman rocf Union MM, O,
                            dtd 9-1-1827
               
               
                  PERVO
               
               
                  8-12-1826
                  Jane rec by req
               
               
                  PICKARD
               
               
                  4-9-1826
                  William A rocf Lick Creek MM, dtd 10-20-1824
               
               
                  2-10-1827
                  Mary appt overseer at Elevatis mtg
               
               
                  PITMAN
               
               
                  7-12-1823
                  James & family rocf Deep River MM, NC, dtd 7-5-1821
               
               
                  10-14-1826
                  Judith appt to comm
               
               
                  POSTGATE
               
               
                  1-13-1827
                  Charity & dt Rachel rocf —– & directed to 
                                Vermillion
                             MM
               
               
                  REYNOLDS
               
               
                  9-9-1820
                  David and Jesse appt to comm.
               
               
                  10-14-1820
                  Mahlon appt clerk of men's mtg; Jesse appt overseer at Union mtg
               
               
                  3-10-1821
                  David and Ann appt elders
               
               
               
                  1-8-1825
                  Mahlon gct White Lick MM to m
               
               
                  1-14-1826
                  Ann appt to comm
               
               
                  9-9-1826
                  Welmet appt to comm
               
               
                  12-8-1827
                  Rachel appt to comm
               
               
                  RUBOTTOM
               
               
                  2-10-1827
                  Elizabeth appt overseer at Elevatis mtg
               
               
                  9-12-1827
                  Ezekial m Jane Coate (see abstract of m cert)
               
               
                  RUNDOLS
               
               
                  5-13-1826
                  Rachel appt clerk of women's mtg
               
               
                  SHATTOCK
               
               
                  4-12-1828
                  Sarah, Honey Creek mtg compl for mcd; 6-14-1828 dis
               
               
                  SILER
               
               
                  1-8-1825
                  Adam & s James, Jeremiah & s Enos C rocf Lick Creek MM, dtd
                        10-16-1824
               
               
                  10-17-1827
                  James m Hannah Newlin (see abstract of m cert)
               
               
                  SPENCER
               
               
                  5-12-1827
                  Mary & infant dt Frances rocf Horsham MM, Pa-, dtd 8-30-1826
               
               
                  SPIVY
               
               
                  5-14-1821
                  Axiom con his mcd
               
               
                  6-10-1826
                  Milly con att mcd
               
               
                  5-10-1828
                  Ormely, Union mtg compl for using profane & unbecoming language; 9-13-1828
                        dis
               
               
                  STANLEY
               
               
                  3-12-1825
                  John & ss Wiatt, Milton & Harmon rocf 
                                Dover
                             MM, NC, dtd 8-21-1824 [1825] Aaron rocf [
                                Dover
                             MM, NC]
               
               
                  1-19-1826
                  Aaron m Mahala Stanley (see abstract of m cert)
               
               
                  7-14-1827
                  Delana appt to comm
               
               
                  STEVENSON
               
               
                  10-14-1820
                  Mahlon appt overseer at Honey Creek mtg
               
               
                  8-14-1824
                  Mahlon & Ruth appt elders
               
               
                  TAILOR
               
               
                  7-8-1826
                  Naomey, Union mtg compl for mcd; 9-8-1827 dis
               
               
                  THOMAS
               
               
                  9-8-1821
                  Stephen & s Daniel rocf Lick Creek MM, dtd 7-28-1821
               
               
                  THOMPSON
               
               
                  3-9-1822
                  Joseph & ss Isaac, Israel & Joseph rocf Elk MM, O, dtd 2-2-1822
               
               
                  THORNTON
               
               
                  3-12-1825
                  Thomas & William rocf Silver Creek MM, dtd 1-10-1824; Isaac rocf Silver Creek MM,
                            dtd 8-21-1824
               
               
                  6-10-1826
                  Katurah rocf Silver Creek MM, dtd 3-25-1826
               
               
               
                  WATSON
               
               
                  5-12-1827
                  Rachel con her mcd
               
               
                  WELLS
               
               
                  10-13-1821
                  Nathan, Union mtg compl for mcd; 2-29-1822 con his misc
               
               
                  9-14-1822
                  Nathan, Union mtg compl for mustering; 11-9-1822 dis
               
               
                  5-12-1827
                  Susannah, Union mtg compl for att mcd; 9-8-1827 dis
               
               
                  WILLARD
               
               
                  9-9-1820
                  Joseph appt comm
               
               
                  9-14-1822
                  Joseph Jr, Union mtg compl for mcd; 11-9-1822 dis
               
               
                  9-11-1824
                  Daniel con his mcd
               
               
                  11-12-1825
                  Penina appt to comm
               
               
                  WILLIAMS
               
               
                  3-8-1823
                  James & w Julianna & ch Peggy, George, Isaac, Mary, Boaz, Belinda
                            & Dirias rocf 
                                Springfield
                             MM, Ind., dtd 9-11-1822
               
               
                  10-8-1825
                  Arabella appt to comm
               
               
                  6-14-1828
                  James & ch Peggy, George, Isaac, Mary, Boaz, Malinda (or Belinda), Darius (or
                            Dirias), Ahava & Cynthia gct White Lick MM
               
               
                  WILSON
               
               
                  1-12-1822
                  Gabriel, Honey Creek mtg compl for mcd; 6-11-1822 dis
               
               
                  3-12-1825
                  Paton & ss William & Samuel rocf Lick Creek MM, dtd 9-18-1824
               
               
                  1-14-1826
                  Hannah appt to comm
               
               
                  WRIGHT
               
               
                  7-13-1822
                  Joshua & w Rebecca & ch Sarah, Isaac, Jonathan, Betsy, Matilda, Jesse
                            & Polly rocf 
                                Fall Creek
                             MM, O, dtd 9-22-1821
               
               
                  6-14-1823
                  Joshua & family gct Newberry MM, O.
               
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Papers of Sir William Johnson, Volume XII. Prepared for publication by
                    Milton W. Hamilton. (
                        Albany
                    : The University of the State of 
                        New York
                    , 1957. Pp. viii, 1124. Frontispiece and illustrations. $8.00.)
            To historians and ethnohistorians engaged in research on Indian affairs in 
                  New York, Pennsylvania
               , the Ohio Valley, and the Great Lakes
                    region during the late colonial period, Volume XII of the papers of Sir William Johnson, British
                    superintendent of Indian Affairs, 1755-1774, is a rare gift. The many-score documents contained in
                    this volume are superbly reproduced, briefly but well annotated, and helpfully cross-referenced. The
                    documents themselves supplement the ones published for the years 1766-1774 in volumes V-VIII of the
                    first chronological series of the Sir William Johnson Papers. The material for the
                    latest volume was drawn chiefly from collections in the Canadian Archives, the William L. Clements
                    Library, the 
                        New York
                     Historical Society, and the Historical Society of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . A few—relatively—are reprinted from Volume XI of the Collections of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Library; the reason for reprinting these in the present
                    definitive collection is obvious.
            Because the nearly three hundred new items which were found subsequent to the publication of volumes
                    V-VIII could not all be included between the covers of one manageable volume, the longer documents
                    (journals, accounts, and land papers) written within the period 1766-1774 have been reserved for
                    future publication in an additional volume. This addenda volume will also contain a chronological
                    list of all published documents indicating their locations in the series. The final volume, to
                    conclude the series, will be an index volume (p. viii).
            Over half the present Volume XII is devoted to letters to and from Sir William Johnson and to short
                    journals, accounts, and other documents relating to Indian Affairs from 1766 to the Treaty of Fort
                    Stanwix of 1768. The remainder of the volume contains materials relating to Indian affairs and land
                    development from 1769 to 1774. The volume begins with General Thomas Gage's instructions of
                    January 10, 1766 to Major Robert Rogers, Commandant of the Post at Michilimackinac, and ends with a
                    letter written by Guy Johnson, Sir William's son-in-law, to Gage on July 12, 1774 from
                    Johnson Hall. This letter informed Gage of Sir William Johnson's sudden death the evening
                    before during a "Critical Congress" then in progress at Johnson Hall with the Six
                    Nations Indians (pp. 1121-1124). Sir William's will, which was written six months prior to
                    his death, is also included in Volume XII (pp. 1062-1076), but publication of the inventory of
                    Johnson Hall, and other post-July 12, 1774 items dealing with Johnson's large estate and
                    his policies has been deferred for inclusion in the addenda volume (p. viii).
            
               The Papers of Sir William Johnson will be, upon completion, one of the most
                    important documentary series for late colonial history. For 
                    ethnohistorians concerned with the Indians of the eastern 
                        United States
                     the series is invaluable, containing primary documents relating to Indians from the
                    Atlantic seaboard to the Mississippi River, For the past few months the
                    reviewer has been using the series almost daily, in connection with a particular ethnohistorical
                    research project. As soon as Volume XII appeared, it was put to immediate use and has been in use
                    ever since. To Dr. Milton W. Hamilton, senior historian of the University of the State of 
                        New York
                    , this reviewer feels, as many others will doubtless feel, deeply grateful for the fine
                    reproduction and fine footnoting of the rich contents of Volume XII. The promise of more wealth to
                    come in the addenda volume leads one to hope for an early appearance of this latter volume.
            
               Indiana University, Erminie Wheeler-Voegelin
         
         
            
               John Johnston and the Indians in the Land of the Three Miamis. By Leonard U.
                    Hill. (Piqua, 
                        Ohio
                    : Published by the author, 1957. Pp. ix, 198. Maps, illustrations, and index.
                    $2.50.)
            Born in northern 
                        Ireland
                    , Scotch-Irish John Johnston came as a lad with his parents to settle on the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     frontier in 1786. Equipped with some fragmentary schooling, possibly from tutors, and
                    experience working in a store, young Johnston departed for the West where he became a wagoner in the
                    Indian campaign of Anthony Wayne. After a not too successful venture into business in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , a try at law, and a clerkship in the office of the Secretary of War, he and his bride
                    moved to the western country permanently.
            As Indian factor and agent at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Piqua, Johnston's role in the Indian policies of the 
                        United States
                     was both intimate and significant. Not only did he discharge these offices in an
                    exemplary fashion, but, during the War of 1812, for example, he was instrumental in keeping trouble
                    to a minimum and in enlisting support from his charges for the American cause. Although removed from
                    office with the accession of Andrew Jackson to the presidency, Johnston's influence with
                    and knowledge of the 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana Indians continued to be valuable to the government. His last important
                    service was rendered in the negotiation of a removal treaty with the 
                        Ohio
                     Wyandot in 1841-1842.
            Johnston's other public services included such varied activities as serving as a canal
                    commissioner for 
                        Ohio
                    , membership on the state agriculture board, trustee of 
                        Miami
                     University, and one of the board of visitors of West Point. He was an intimate of
                    William Henry Harrison and it is probable, but for the President's untimely death, that
                    Johnston's star would have risen rapidly.
            The "Three Miamis" in the title refers to the Great Miami,
                        Little Miami, and Maumee rivers of western 
                        Ohio
                    . The book is not primarily biographical nor is it strictly a history of the Indians of
                    the area during the Johnston period. In some parts, Johnston is incidental to the story; for
                    example, in the chapter, "Johnston at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ," generally other  things than his
                    activities are discussed; again, "Removal of Senecas, Shawnees, and Ottawas" seems
                    to be included only because these groups stopped to visit their old friend while en route to the
                    West.
            This book is primarily one of extensive and lengthy quotations from source materials, principally
                    from the National Archives. Hill's frequent use of quotation is unfortunate because it
                    destroys continuity, includes much material that is not relevant, and makes for difficult reading.
                    To be sure, the author has tapped a mine of source material, but unhappily it is impossible for
                    anyone else to benefit from the considerable amount of time and effort he has put forth to compile
                    the volume. Such assertions as "it has been stated" (p. 21) or "it has
                    been stated on good authority" (p. 46) are of no help. Nor are footnote references such as
                    "National Archives" or "State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    " of any value to one interested in further use of the author's
                    sources. And the practice of lumping as many as twenty-five footnotes into one might save
                    printer's cost, but it leads to the reader's confusion.
            Without source material, research is not possible, but a judicious use of the sources would have
                    saved the author from erroneous statements, inconsistencies, and misleading conclusions. A few
                    examples will suffice to illustrate this point. He gives credibility to Little Turtle's
                    statement at 
                        Greene
                     Ville that the 
                        Miami
                     "kindled the first fire at 
                        Detroit
                    " (p. 1). Probably neither is it true that the 
                        Miami
                     were first to establish a village at 
                        Detroit
                    , nor that 
                        Detroit
                     was the first 
                        Miami
                     village. Hill accepts a newspaper statement (p. 8) that Bluejacket was leader of the
                    Indians in St. Clair's defeat of 1791 and then asserts Little Turtle's leadership
                    on a later page (p. 14). The author subscribes to Johnston's statement that the 
                        Miami
                     were the original inhabitants of 
                        Ohio
                     and to his inference that all other tribes came into the 
                        Ohio
                     country with 
                        Miami
                     permission (p. 1). The author suggests that since the 
                        Miami
                     name is propagated in the names of three western Ohio rivers,
                    Johnston's statements are true—a conclusion which does not follow. In fact,
                    historical evidence will not support either Johnston or the author.
            Part II of this book contains the "Recollections of Sixty Years," an
                    autobiographical statement which Johnston prepared for a 
                        Cincinnati
                     newspaper. The author here reproduces an edited version of another edited version of
                    the original account which appeared in the newspaper and, therefore, renders no real service to the
                    reader. "Recollections" does, however, contain information that might well have
                    been used to good advantage in the first part of the book.
            The real value of Hill's volume is that it calls attention to the need for a full scale
                    biography of John Johnston, a secondary figure of considerable importance on the Indian-white
                    frontier of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana.
            
               
                  
                            Miami
                         University, Dwight L. Smith
         
         
         
            
               A Surgeon's Mate at Fort Defiance: The Journal of Joseph Gardner Andrews for
                        the Year 1795. Edited by Richard C. Knopf (
                  Columbus, Ohio: Ohio
                Historical Society, 1967. Pp. 91. Map, index. Paperbound, no price
                    indicated.)
            Joseph Gardner Andrews, a graduate of 
                        Harvard
                    , was schoolmaster at Dorchester, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , until he enlisted as surgeon's mate in 1792 and joined General Anthony
                    Wayne's army near 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Following 
                        Wayne
                    's victory over the Indians at Fallen Timbers, August 20, 1794, he was assigned
                    to Fort Defiance. This outpost, overlooking the confluence of the Maumee and
                        Auglaize rivers, was the strongest of those constructed by General Wayne as
                    he moved northward against the enemy. And here at the American army's crossroads fort,
                    Andrews sensed the general uneasiness which was still manifest until the Indians returned loaded
                    with trinkets from the peacemaking at Greeneville in 1795.
            As surgeon's mate, Andrews faithfully looked after the health of the garrison; just as
                    faithfully, he recorded everything which impressed him. He made trips up the Maumee to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     for supplies, handled a large correspondence, and even planted a garden. He preferred
                    to dine alone in his quarters and was not slow in expressing his pleasure at this rare occurrence.
                    Andrews usually ate at general mess, however, and there he frequently met Indian chiefs and traders.
                    His journal is full of comments on their manners and character. But it was not until November 3,
                    1795, that the first American merchant reached Fort Defiance, He was Abijah Hunt from 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            At the beginning of each month Andrews added a report on the "State of the Garrison of Fort
                    Defiance." He tabulated all sick and well, noting what disorders were present. Dysentery
                    from improperly cured beef was prevalent in the winter; late summer and early fall brought malaria.
                    On October 1, 1795, the sick list was almost twice that of the well, approximately two-thirds of the
                    garrison. Although he had no thermometer, which he duly lamented, Andrews made meteore logical
                    observations. He recorded the kind of weather (rain, snow, cloudy, fair) and the direction of the
                    wind for each day of each month. And as one reads his observations and compares them with
                    today's average weather in the area, he notes that there is not much difference.
            Packed with the action of daily life at Fort Defiance, Andrews' vivid account is superior to
                    those of his contemporaries, The clear and concise English in which it is written testifies to his
                    educational background. Just twenty-seven when he wrote the journal, Andrews gives evidence of the
                    wisdom and stability of his 
                        New England
                     ancestors. Indispensable to the scholar, this small volume is a delight to historian
                    and layman alike.
            Richard C. Knopf, historian of the Anthony Wayne Parkway Board, has provided commendable editing and
                    an excellent introduction. The notes are ample and accurate. The index is generally adequate;
                    however, a few important names are missing, notably that of Little Turtle. The Andrews Journal was
                    published through the courtesy of the Division of Manuscripts of the Library of Congress and first
                    appeared in the 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Quarterly in January, April, and July, 1957.
            
               Indiana University, Frederick A. Schminke
         
         
         
            
               The War of 1812 in the Old Northwest. By Alec R. Gilpin. (East Lansing: 
                        Michigan
                     State University Press, 1958. Pp. vii, 286. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $6.50.)
            The title of Professor Gilpin's book is both fitting and apt, for it is a historical
                    monograph covering every battle, land and lake, that was fought in the Old Northwest during the War
                    of 1812. Little or nothing is said about the war's causes or effects. The bulk of the book
                    is taken up with military matters. This is its purpose; and as such, it is an extremely complete and
                    meticulously detailed history. Not a skirmish is omitted; even the abortive battles are considered.
                    Here, then, is an encyclopedic account of the war in the Great Lakes region that will undoubtedly be
                    of value to the scholar interested in the period.
            Professor Gilpin's treatment of the war is, however, somewhat partisan. He regards General
                    Hull's absurd proclamation to the inhabitants of Upper Canada, heralding their emancipation
                    from British tyranny and urging their cooperation with his army, as effective propaganda. On the
                    other hand, General Brock's reply, counseling the Canadians to remain true to the Crown, is
                    evaluated as crude. Hull's defeat by Brock is, in large measure, blamed upon logistics. But
                    why then should Brock, almost as remote as Hull from his base of supplies, have succeeded? The
                    author criticizes Proctor, Brock's successor in the Northwest, for failing to prevent his
                    Indians from murdering captive Americans after the Battle of River Raisin. But were American troops
                    of 
                        Harrison
                    's command under control when they mutilated the bodies of the Indian dead
                    after the Battle of the Thames? War is a bloody business and Indian warfare particularly so. These
                    are the morbid facts of frontier life.
            The author has leaned far more heavily upon American sources than upon Canadian, both primary and
                    secondary; and the results are, at times, unfortunate. The relationship and the contribution of the
                    Canadian fur traders—and American, too—to the war effort were never made
                    clear. To the men of the North West Company, this was a war to regain "Canada
                    irredenta," the domain lost to them in the Treaty of 1783; and the Nor'Westers did
                    much to account for Canadian military successes in the Northwest. Indeed, to them, the Treaty of
                    Ghent seemed a second betrayal of their (and Canadian) interests, for so much of the Old Northwest
                    that had been won by the force of their arms was handed back to the 
                        United States
                     at the peace table. A greater balance would have been achieved in Gilpin's
                    work by reference to certain standard works on Canada and the fur trade.
            One can also quarrel with certain statements of fact and conclusions made by the author. For example,
                    no evidence is presented to substantiate the claim (p. 24) that the Canadians, in the immediate
                    pre-war years, "actively enlisted the aid of the Indians to defend their country."
                    There is no historical basis for the categorical assertion (p. 88) that "French control [of
                    Canada] … would have been welcomed by most French Canadians." And while Canada
                    might be strategically likened to a tree, its tap roots were (p. 45) not in Halifax— save
                    for the Maritime Provinces—but in 
                        Montreal
                    ; and Generals  Hull and 
                        Harrison
                     were still engaged in lopping off branches in the Northwest without ever deadening the
                    Canadian tree.
            General Hull is ever so gently handled. He emerges as a victim of circumstances largely beyond his
                    control, a man (p. 124) who "surrendered [
                        Detroit
                    ] for the sake of humanity, but lost his good name because … the
                    Administration … required a scapegoat to bear its responsibility for the disastrous blow
                    to American arms and pride." Hull may not have been a physical coward, but he was a
                    miserable general, irritatingly indecisive, vacillating, and apparently devoid of military skills.
                    The reviewer heartily sympathizes with Lewis Cass and his fellow officers for plotting to remove
                    Hull from his command. For here was a man who was not fit to command, whose action and inaction bred
                    demoralization and mutiny among his troops. Moreover, to advance in Hull's behalf the
                    testimony of General James Wilkinson, who has been called an "unprincipled idiot"
                    and worse, does not lend meaningful support to the author's thesis. If all American
                    generals surrendered because of what might happen, there would be few battles won. Hull remains,
                    therefore, a victim both of circumstances and of himself.
            
               
                  
                            Michigan
                         State, University Alvin C. Gluek, Jr.
         
         
            
               Prelude to Independence: The Newspaper War on Britain, 1764-1776. By Arthur M.
                    Schlesinger. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1958. Pp. ix, 318. Appendices, bibliographical note, index.
                    $6.00.)
            Professor emeritus at 
                        Harvard
                     University, Arthur M. Schlesinger has brought to this study a highly qualified
                    background in an attempt to ascertain the role of newspapers in undermining American loyalty to
                    Great Britain and creating a demand for independence. Schlesinger has from time to time published
                    articles on this subject. The present work assimilates these and his later research. The author
                    portrays the dominant causes of the Revolution along lines originally stated in his well-known The Colonial Merchants and the American Revolution (1918) and New Viewpoints in
                        American History (1922). Although particular social and economic grievances often motivated
                    the Revolutionary patriots, until almost the outbreak of the Revolution they sought merely to
                    restore the relationship with the mother country that existed before Great Britain instituted the
                    new imperial policy after 1763. Their object was not to disrupt the Empire, Schlesinger concludes,
                    but only to insure what would today be called dominion status. One might ask, however, if this, in
                    effect, is not independence, as well as whether the colonies actually had enjoyed dominion status
                    before 1763.
            Following a brief review of colonial journalism prior to the Revolutionary crisis, the bulk of the
                    work details the part played in the propaganda campaign against 
                        England
                    . The author's evidence fully justifies his conclusion that the press was a key
                    agency in the patriot cause. Moreover, aside from its political consequences, the newspaper
                    offensive made a permanent impression on American journalism by establishing its function in forming
                    public opinion and by insisting on the right of freedom of the press. One might ask here, as
                    Schlesinger  has not, whether the colonial press adopted the
                    responsibility concomitant with this freedom—the responsibility to report the truth as
                    best ascertained. Is it not relevant that the patriot newsmen deliberately misrepresented the
                    measures and intentions of the home government? Professor Schlesinger admits (p. 34) that the stigma
                    of "tyranny," "oppression," and "slavery"
                    applied to British policy had little or no objective reality, at least prior to the Intolerable Acts
                    of 1774. Perhaps a more balanced view of these last measures might even eliminate his qualification,
                    but can it be said that the colonial press functioned responsibly? By the author's
                    pragmatic test they were justified in misrepresenting British intentions, for their actions aided
                    the goal of independence, which was the greatest contribution of the Revolutionary generation.
            Ranking second only to independence, Schlesinger concludes, was the legacy of freedom of the press.
                    In their task of forming public opinion, the newsmen were inescapably involved in the issue of
                    freedom of the press, since as long as Crown officials exercised effective control, the Whig
                    journalists extolled the virtues of unfettered discussion—often unbridled
                    license—which brought them squarely into conflict with the English common law doctrine of
                    seditious libel. Once the patriots gained the upper hand, they inconsistently denied their loyalist
                    opponents liberty, charging them with license in attacking popular governments. The Whig concept of
                    license was diametrically opposed to that of the Tories, Schlesinger points out, for it meant not
                    defiance of royal but popular authority. It may be noted, however, that the justification for free
                    use of the press was not merely an American one for it was the great English Lord Chancellor,
                    Hardwicke, who said in 1739 of the pressmen of the Glorious Revolution that when they wrote in
                    defense of liberty "they were warrented by the law for what they wrote, and they had the
                    sense of the nation on their side" (House of Lords, February 12, 1739: Parliamentary History, X, 1331-32). Were both peoples really so far apart? The American
                    Bill of Rights and FOX'S Libel Law of 1792 both struck at the old repressive common law
                    doctrine. Perhaps it would not be inappropriate to add to Professor Schlesinger's
                    conclusion that the concept of freedom of the press, as it emerged by the end of the eighteenth
                    century, was rooted in both the American and English revolutions.
            
               University of 
                            Nebraska
                        
               , Jack M. Sosin
         
         
            
               Lord Aberdeen and the Americas. By Wilbur Devereux Jones. University of 
                        Georgia
                     Monographs, No. 3. (
                        Athens
                    : University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1958. Pp. xii, 101. Notes, index. Paperbound, $2.00.)
            In an era of British history most frequently characterized by the bellicose Palmerston, the
                    diplomatic achievements of the gentle Earl of Aberdeen have been somewhat obscured. His moderate and
                    pacific policies were territorially profitable to America, and we, while recognizing that
                    Europe's tribulations have often been the source of our triumphs, have not been prone to
                    admit that occasionally our glory must  be shared. As Wilbur D.
                    Jones has analyzed Aberdeen's policy between 1841 and 1846, American success in settlement
                    of the 
                  Maine, Texas
               , and 
                        Oregon
                     questions must redound to the credit of that British Foreign Secretary who patiently
                    worked to maintain the peace of the English-speaking peoples.
            The historian who can provide the American background for himself will find in these pages welcome
                    relief from the raucous cries of the expansionists of the 1840's. Unfortunately, save for a
                    short Foreword by Lady Pentland, and a brief concluding estimate, Aberdeen appears only as the
                    author of numerous soothing and diplomatically circuitous notes. Professor Jones' chief
                    concern seems to be the full documentation of his earlier controversy with Frederick Merk over the
                    proper evaluation of Aberdeen's motivation. Merk argued that British Opposition politics
                    significantly affected the settlement of the 
                        Oregon
                     dispute. Jones builds a persuasive case for Aberdeen's independence, but he
                    avoids Merk's evidence except to reject it as a slur upon Lord Aberdeen. That is not quite
                    convincing, and few would think less of Aberdeen if he were shown to be sensitive to bipartisan
                    pressures in a delicate diplomatic situation. Both the diplomatic history of the period and the
                    biography of Lord Aberdeen need further development. Judging from the real merits of this volume,
                    what Professor Jones may say upon either subject in the future will deserve weighty consideration.
            
               The 
                            Alabama
                         Polytechnic Institute, Robert R. Rea
         
         
            
               The Guns at 
                            Gettysburg
                        . By Fairfax Downey. (
                        New York
                    : David McKay Company, 1958. Pp. xii, 290. Illustrations, maps, appendices, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $5.00.)
            What 
                        Gettysburg
                     enthusiast has not felt the presence of the "Guns at 
                        Gettysburg
                    ," and with the author been conscious that they have defied a century of time?
                    Fairfax Downey has back of his writing the enthusiasm, or perhaps it might be called inspiration, of
                    the true 
                        Gettysburg
                     fan.
            Downey is an artillerist, and consequently tends to overstress the importance of that arm and to
                    exaggerate somewhat its destructive power. He develops the battle by describing the employment of
                    artillery, day by day, and ends with a brief critique. He does it well, and for the 
                        Gettysburg
                     addict who has always felt the need of a better picture of the artillery battle, The Guns at 
                            Gettysburg
                        
                is the answer to a prayer and a guide to the field.
            As might be expected, Downey is a little at a loss in explaining the employment of masses of infantry
                    which furnished the development pattern of the battle. For instance, Hood's Division of the
                    First Corps opened the second day's battle, attacking by brigades in echelon. Then
                    McLaw's Division took up the movement, and Barksdale's Brigade which cracked the
                    salient at the Peach Orchard was the last unit committed. However, Downey jumps in right here and
                    introduces an account of the artillery masterpiece that eased the Union line back to its original
                    position. He is probably inaccurate on the commitment of  the
                    Fifth Corps to the defense of Sickles' ill-formed salient. Moreover, he is unaware of the
                    presence of Vincent's Brigade in the defense of Little Round Top and not clear on the
                    situation into which General Warren directed "Paddy" O'Rorke at the head
                    of the Hundred and Fortieth of 
                        New York
                    . Throughout the volume, as well as at the above noted points, the basic description of
                    the battle leaves a little to be desired.
            This book is full of personal incidents and first-hand description. It is filled with technical
                    information on the operation and employment of artillery. The author has no quarrel with the
                    traditional—no yen for new theories or appraisements. 
                        Gettysburg
                     is still the "decisive battle"; the Eastern Theatre the center of the
                    war; the march of the western armies unheeded; 
                        Grant
                     at 
                        Vicksburg
                     unnoticed. For the Civil War fan and for the 
                        Gettysburg
                     enthusiast, however, the book is a must.
            
               DePauw University, A. W. Crandall
         
         
            
               The Republican Era, 1869-1901: A Study in Administrative History. By Leonard D.
                    White. (
                        New York
                    : The MacMillan Company, 1958. Pp. ix, 406. Index. $6.00.)
            Leonard D. White's The Republican Era concludes a series of studies in
                    administrative history which began with The Federalists (1948), followed by The Jeffersonians (1951) and The Jacksonians (1954). The series
                    was not intended to be a comprehensive history of public administration in the 
                        United States
                    . It was, rather, the intention of the author to describe the theory and practice of
                    administration in the national government under four distinctive and formative phases of its
                    political history. As with the volumes which precede it, The Republican Era is
                    concerned with the national level of government, state and local administration receiving only
                    passing attention.
            The years 1869-1901 were not, in the main, years of progress or perfection in the art of public
                    administration. Accomplishments such as the Pendleton Civil Service Law of 1883 were primarily a
                    means of return to the higher standards of public service prevailing during the early years of the
                    Republic. In this and other measures, foundations were laid (often inadvertently) for far-reaching
                    developments to follow. But neither Republicans nor Democrats in this era favored positive public
                    administration in the sense later to be dramatized by Woodrow Wilson and the Roosevelts. The
                    Republicans were as "Jacksonian" in their political principles as the Democrats,
                    but with the important omission of Andrew Jackson.
            Both major parties were factionalized throughout the Republican era. But the most consistent and
                    characteristic leadership among the Republicans was found in the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Initiative in the chief executive was not a quality sought by these Republican
                    leaders. They expected that Republican presidents would serve primarily as executors of their
                    policies and wishes. They became "righteously" indignant when presidents Hayes and
                    Roosevelt demurred and advanced policies of their own which were prejudicial to personal interests
                    of prominent Republican senators. 
                    The Republican Era affords a good background for anyone interested in
                    understanding the inner contradiction of Republican party politics in our own times. It should be of
                    particular interest to students of politics and history in Indiana. For it appears to be in Indiana
                    that the political viewpoints of the Republican era have enjoyed the most complete and prolonged
                    survival.
            It should of course be apparent that there has never been any uniform or consistent Republican
                    philosophy of public administration comparable to the Hamiltonian or Jeffersonian theories of
                    government. The negativism of the Republican era toward effective government was, however, equally
                    shared by Republicans and Democrats, although there were also men associated with both parties who
                    sought greater effectiveness and responsibility in the public service than public opinion was
                    prepared to support. The Republican Era is a powerful antidote to latter day
                    notions of an inherent American superiority in matters governmental. If this nation had a genius for
                    government it was hardly evident in the years between 1869 and 1901.
            
               Indiana University, Lynton Keith Caldwell
         
         
            
               Georgians in Profile: Historical Essays in Honor of Ellis Merton Coulter. Edited
                    by Horace Montgomery. (
                        Athens
                    : University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1958. Pp. xi, 387. Appendix, notes, index. $6.00.)
            This volume of biographical essays, dedicated to Ellis Merton Coulter by some of his former students
                    at the University of 
                        Georgia
                    , presents a scholarly view of 
                        Georgia
                    's history from 1733 to 1920. While most of the fourteen essays deal with
                    political leaders, there are also included studies of a poet, a historian, a railroad builder, and a
                    woman journalist. Each, in his time, was closely associated with the affairs of the Cracker state.
                    Perhaps the absence of such notable figures as William H. Crawford, Robert Toombs, and Alexander H.
                    Stephens should not be questioned since their careers were devoted largely to the national scene.
            The essays begin with John Percival, Earl of Egmont, and end with Hoke Smith who was secretary of the
                    interior during Grover Cleveland's second administration, governor of the state, and 
                        United States
                     Senator. Although Percival never came to 
                        Georgia
                    , he was second in importance only to James Oglethorpe in founding the colony. These
                    essays present a fair sampling of the people who shaped 
                        Georgia
                    's colonial history, her Indian policies in the early years of the nineteenth
                    century, her role in the Old South, her part in the building of the New South, her relations with
                    Populism and Progrqsivism, and finally her role in the struggle over Woodrow Wilson's
                    League of Nations. It appears to this reviewer, however, that the study would have been strengthened
                    by the inclusion of Joseph E. Brown, the state's controversial governor during the Civil
                    War, and by the addition of the elder Eugene Talmadge to help bridge the gap between 1920 and the
                    present.
            The profession will welcome this volume's fresh and comprehensive approach to certain phases
                    of 
                        Georgia
                    's history. This is especially true  of the
                    four essays which deal with aspects of the colony's affairs, particularly the judicial
                    side. Although there is some repetition, other studies present a full account of 
                        Georgia
                    's handling of the Creek and Cherokee Indian problem. New light is thrown upon
                    John McPherson Berrien and his association with Andrew Jackson. Evidence is presented that
                    Berrien's appointment as attorney general by Old Hickory was not influenced solely by John
                    C. Calhoun nor was the Georgian a "devoted" Calhoun man, a view held by some of 
                        Jackson
                    's biographers. Instead, Martin Van Buren and John H. Eaton looked with favor
                    upon Berrien's elevation to the cabinet, and 
                        Jackson
                     himself wm impressed by the Georgian's attitude toward the Indians,
                    particularly the Creeks. Moreover, Berrien regarded the cabinet post as a stepping stone to the
                    Supreme Court of the 
                        United States
                    , an honor he ardently desired. Students of transportation history will find much of
                    value in the essay on Henry Bradley Plant's career in the Southern states as superintendent
                    of the Adams Express Company, later the Southern Express Company, and as a builder of railroads
                    after the Civil War.
            A bibliography of Professor Coulter's publications in the appendix shows that, prior to
                    January 1, 1958, twenty-three books and forty-five articles had come from his pen. While it is
                    regrettable that the footnotes are at the back of the volume, the arrangement is much better than is
                    usually the case under this system. The University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press is to be congratulated on the publication of a fitting tribute to one of the
                    nation's most able and prolific historians.
            
               Indiana University, Powell A. Moore
         
         
            
               The Southeast in Early Maps. By William P. Cumming. (
                  Princeton: Princeton
                University Press, 1958. Pp. ix, 275. Maps, appendices,
                    bibliography, and index. $12.50.)
            Accurate maps are taken for granted by the mid-twentieth century American, who can satisfy most of
                    his cartographic requirements at the nearest filling station, although he may be slightly surprised
                    by the news that mountain ranges rivalling the Alps or Andes have just been discovered in
                    Antarctica, or by the realization that there is still considerable doubt as to the precise location
                    of much of the White Continent's coastline.
            But we must constantly remind ourselves that our own continent was as little known as Antarctica only
                    three centuries ago, and that any understanding of past policies and decisions must be based on
                    clear comprehension of the existing state of geographic information—or misinformation. In
                    tracing the historical cartography of the pre-Revolutionary Carolinas and 
                        Georgia
                    , Professor Cummings indicates the significance of ignorance and of changing geographic
                    knowledge in the diplomatic and political evolution of a newly discovered and developing region. Nor
                    does he slight the importance of early maps for the historian concerned with exploration,
                    territorial conflicts, or the expansion of settlement and trade.
            
            Professor Cummings clearly understands the cartographic process: how knowledge gained by explorers is
                    translated into maps; the problems of the cartographer in Europe, confronted with conflicting
                    information trickling back from the New World, who sometimes elected to use erroneous data; the
                    inescapable fact that map makers have always borrowed from each other—as they still
                    do—and often without acknowledgement; and the manner in which geographic fallacies are
                    perpetuated by indiscriminate copying. Much sound detective work was required to prepare the
                    fascinating appendix listing the "genealogies" of some of the more important
                    "mother maps."
            The great mass of information contained in this volume makes it an interesting reference work,
                    although its three major components are not so well integrated as one might wish. A lively
                    introductory essay sketching the history of early maps and map makers is poorly keyed to the
                    remainder of the work. The well reproduced atlas section contains 67 plates of maps which were
                    apparently selected on the basis of their rarity, since some of the more important maps are merely
                    cited in an exhaustive list of some 450 items. And one cannot carp at a listing of maps in
                    chronological order, even when it places large-scale fortification or town plans cheek-by-jowl with
                    small-scale regional maps, but a thoughtful system of cross-indexing would have been of inestimable
                    value to many users.
            
               Indiana University, John Fraser Hart
         
         
            
               The Face of 
                            Minnesota
                        . By John Szarkowski. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1958. Pp. viii, 302. Numerous illustrations, technical note. $5.00.)
            "As the mature man carries on his face and in his bearing the history of his past, so does
                    the look of a place today show its past-what it has been and what it has believed in" (p.
                    vii). With the foregoing statement as his thesis, John Szarkowski presents the face of the state of 
                        Minnesota
                     in two hundred photographs with brief accompanying text. The volume is divided into
                    four sections which depict the character of 
                        Minnesota
                    , the state's historical heritage, its social and political development, and
                    the nature of its economy.
            Face of 
                        Minnesota
                     is not conventional history but a photographer's tour which attempts to record
                    the effects of the state's historical and geographical background on the formation of the
                    present character of the place and of its people. Though Szarkowski's book is seriously
                    marred by poor organization, it includes shrewd commentary which emphasizes the features of 
                        Minnesota
                    's individuality-distinctive aspects of its agriculture, lumbering, mining,
                    industry, politics, of its people and their customs.
            The subjects that the author has chosen to photograph and discuss are representative rather than
                    comprehensive. Factual material has been gathered from standard state histories, from public
                    agencies, and through interviews; the volume is, however, undocumented. Nevertheless,
                    Szarkowski's perceptive and honest photography, as well as his feeling for the verities of
                    human nature, have made it possible for him to catch and record the spirit, the essence, of 
                        Minnesota
                    .
            
               Indiana University, Mary Lou Thieking
         
         
         
            
               Lumberman From Flint: The 
                            Michigan
                         Career of Henry H. Crapo, 1855-1869. By Martin D. Lewis.
                            (
                  Detroit: Wayne
                State University Press, 1958. Pp. x, 289. Illustrations, appendices,
                    notes, index. $5.00.)
            For a period of thirty years (1870-1900), 
                        Michigan
                     led all states in the production of lumber. It is surprising, therefore, that no
                    scholarly work has appeared to assess this aspect of 
                        Michigan
                    's economic development. Other major producers of
                            lumber—
                  Maine, Wisconsin, Minnesota
                — have fared better at the hands of historians. The
                    present study partially corrects this serious neglect, Professor Lewis, dealing with the 
                        Michigan
                     career of Henry H. Crapo, who was a major producer of lumber in the Saginaw
                        valley, vividly describes a segment of that industry in the state.
            Students of business history' will find this detailed account of Crapo's lumbering
                    activity a source of valuable information. Crapo entered the business with the purchase of the
                    Driggs tract. Woefully lacking in knowledge of the industry, he expected to make it profitable in
                    his spare time but soon realized that lumbering was a full time occupation. The problems which
                    confronted him in finance, transportation, marketing, and labor are dealt with at length. His belief
                    in the necessity of establishing a monopoly and his many attempts to undermine the position of his
                    chief competitors are discussed fully and provide an interesting commentary on the mind of the
                    nineteenth century businessman. At times arrogant, he once admitted to his son that his business was
                    a "perfect system," (p. 139). One suspects that his later entrance into politics
                    (he served as mayor of Flint, state senator, and governor) was motivated by a desire to strengthen
                    his position in the business world.
            The author's comments about Crapo's labor policy are particularly illuminating. He
                    looked upon himself as exceptionally gifted in managing his men and claimed they would not work for
                    anyone else. In his letters to his son, he blamed poor business conditions as the reason for the low
                    wages in his mills. At one time he was so hard pressed for cash that he paid wages in commodities.
                    Later, however, when his business did take a turn for the better he bitterly complained that the
                    "men are continually clamoring for more wages" (p. 123). Apparently he saw no
                    connection between his increasing profits and rising wages.
            The principal source for the work is the Crapo Manuscripts, particularly the hundreds of
                    Crapo's letters to his son William which are in the 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Collection at the University of 
                        Michigan
                    . Dr. Lewis' frequent use of the letters in the text adds luster to the
                    narrative and makes fascinating reading. The book contains appendices which are pertinent to the
                    material presented in the text. A serious error occurs in the first chapter. One wonders when 
                        Vermont
                     entered the Union if "
                  Kentucky, Tennessee
               , and 
                        Ohio
                    " were the first three states to be added to the original thirteen (p. 13).
            
               Eastern 
                            Illinois
                         University, Richard M. Jellison
         
         
         
            
               Kilowatts at Work: A History of the 
                            Detroit
                         Edison Company. By Raymond C. Miller. (
                  Detroit: Wayne
                State University
                    Press, 1958. Pp. xvi, 467. Frontispiece, appendices, note on sources, and index. $7.50.)
            In the Introduction, the author of this interesting work, Professor of History at 
                        Wayne
                     University, records his hopes that the study will contribute ‘to the
                    understanding of contemporary society and of the creative forces which run through our ever changing
                    business structure"; that as a history of a business concern, its observations will
                    preserve the focus of the business executive dealing "with the facts as they are before him
                    at the moment of decision and within the alternatives then available"; and that this volume
                    is presented not as a "polemic on the public power issue but as a record of one company,
                    one of America's great corporations." Raymond C. Miller has succeeded admirably in
                    the fulfillment of these hopes; the resulting volume which is reviewed here is a notable and
                    unusually readable addition to the growing list of worthwhile company histories that can be read
                    with profit by businessmen and historians alike.
            The Introduction contains a noteworthy statement of Professor Miller's relations with the
                    company. Although he was invited to undertake the study in commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary
                    of the firm's incorporation, the product is in no sense an "official"
                    history. The company's records were made available to him without limitation, and he
                    records that upon the reading of his manuscript by the firm's directors and officers he was
                    asked to make "no alteration or deletion for the sake of ‘policy’ or
                    in any matter involving finance, administration, or public responsibility" (p. xv).
            The story begins with the introduction of arc lights in 
                        Detroit
                     (1878) several years before the first Edison lamp was put in use there (1881). The
                    first section of the book gives a very interesting account of the struggles of the predecessor
                    companies and of the emergence of the 
                        Detroit
                     Edison Company, which was incorporated on January 17, 1903. The work actually covers,
                    therefore, a little more than seventy five years of the history of electrical generating and
                    distributing in 
                        Detroit
                     and its hinterland. There are a number of threads of interest that can be followed
                    through these years: (1) the transition from competition to monopoly in the local utility field; (2)
                    the expansion of company territory from downtown 
                        Detroit
                     to southeastern 
                        Michigan
                    ; (3) the progress of technology in the electrical generating and distributing field and
                    the leading role played by this company in the advance;(4) the efforts to develop new uses and to
                    stimulate demand for electricity; (5) the development of rate schedules and rate-making policy; (6)
                    the relations between the company and the 
                        Detroit City
                     Council, the 
                        Michigan
                     Utilities Commission, and the Federal Power Commission; (7) the relations between the
                    company and other financial interests, especially the North American Company and the United Light
                    and Power Company, including the problem of company independence; (8) the evolution of management
                    policy in respect to employee relations; (9) the long struggle to stay ahead of expanding demand;
                    (10) the special problems created by World War I, the 
                    depression of the thirties, and by World War II; (11) the business philosophy and the intriguing
                    personalities of the managerial group, especially of Alex DOW, 
                        Detroit
                     Edison's guiding hand for over forty years (President, 1912-1940); and a
                    number of other themes of equal interest (e.g., interesting sidelights on the growth of 
                        Detroit
                    ).
            The reader of this volume gets the feeling that he has had a very good vantage point from which to
                    observe many features of the changing problems of the electrical utility field—from the
                    viewpoint of a company more independent than most it is true, but perhaps the more interesting in
                    consequence. The book concludes with a full description of the sources and is, on the whole, well
                    worth reading.
            
               Indiana University, Joseph A. Batchelor
         
         
            
               The Renaissance, 1499-1520. Volume I of The New 
                            Cambridge
                         Modern History. Edited by G. R. Potter. (
                  Cambridge: Cambridge
               
                    University Press, 1957. Pp. xxxvi, 531. Index. $750.)
            The success of the first 
                  
                            Cambridge
                         Modern History is evinced by the large number of reprints. Planned by Lord
                    Acton in 1896, edited after his death by A. W. Ward, G. W. Prothero, and Stanley Leathes, and
                    published between 1902 and 1912, it served as a standard work of reference for many years. Confident
                    that a complete revision, embodying new historical materials, utilizing new methods, and reflecting
                    new interests, would appeal to the historians of the latter half of the twentieth century, the
                    Syndics of the 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press have planned and begun publication of The New 
                        Cambridge
                     Modem History. The first volume of the new series was planned and edited in part by
                    Professor G. R. Potter of Sheffield University. Professor Denys Hay of Edinburgh University
                    completed the editorial revision, wrote the introductory chapter, and saw the book through the
                    press.
            The date for the beginning of the new series was fixed by the terminal date of The 
                  
                            Cambridge
                         Medieval History, which accounts for the relatively short period of time
                    alloted to the Renaissance. Most of the authors, however, include materials outside this time span.
                    Since the period of time covered is only twenty-seven years, one might question the advisability of
                    having assigned the sixteen chapters to twenty different authors. Although there is relatively
                    little overlapping of materials, there is noticeable unevenness of quality and style.
            The introductory chapter is followed by a helpful and fresh essay by H. C. Darby on "The
                    Face of Europe on the Eve of the Great Discoveries," but these discoveries are not
                    discussed until at the end of the book. Instead, there follows a brilliant, interpretative chapter
                    by Hans Baron on "Fifteenth-Century Civilisation and the Renaissance," in which he
                    explains the social backgrounds of European culture and shows how the scholars of northern Europe
                    responded to Italian humanism. A chapter on the papacy and the church offers little that is new;
                    however, two chapters on learning, literature, and the fine arts contain many new interpretations.
                    Six chapters are devoted to the internal history of a number of European countries, excluding
                    Scandinavia and Russia, which will be discussed in a subsequent volume, and 
                        England
                    ,  for which no provision seems to have been made.
                    There is a scholarly chapter on international relations by J. R. Hale, which provides the setting
                    for one on the invasions of Italy. There are two essays on the expansion of Europe and its impact on
                    the Old World. The latter, unfortunately, is concerned almost solely with economic consequences and
                    ignores the influence of the New World on the intellectual and cultural history of Europe.
            Although this first volume of The New 
                            Cambridge
                         Modern History contains much useful information, there is no fresh synthesis
                    for the period as a whole. There is a good index, but no bibliography.
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         State University, Harold J. Grimm
         
         
            
               John Locke: A Biography. By Maurice Cranston. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1957. Pp. xvi, 496. Frontispiece, illustrations, index.
                    $8.00.)
            "John Locke," writes Maurice Cranston, in bringing this volume to a close,
                    "was a great man; indeed so great a man that his biographer cannot grasp the measure of
                    that greatness. His biographer is perforce too close to him. Only an historian of European thought
                    with a panoramic vision, could judge his stature. But this at least one can say here: Locke did not
                    merely enlarge men's knowledge, he changed their way of thinking." The
                    author's comment in itself is remarkable, for it amounts to saying that those who most
                    thoroughly know Locke are somehow less fitted to know Locke as a great and influential thinker than
                    are those who know him less well. Yet, somehow at the same time, the biographer does know that he
                    was a very great man. How he knows it, except on the word of others who presumedly know less about
                    his subject than he does, is not indicated. Mr. Cranston, however, can document his conclusion by
                    pointing to the biography which he himself has written, for it is seldom that the greatness of Locke
                    breaks through the details of his life to impress itself upon the consciousness of the reader.
            The biography itself is based upon more complete sources than any earlier work dealing with Locke. It
                    is the first biography in which the author has been able to take full advantage of the Lovelace
                    Collection, now the property of the Bodleian Library at 
                        Oxford
                    . This collection contains approximately three thousand letters besides a thousand
                    miscellaneous manuscripts which include such disparate material as Locke's library lists,
                    his notebooks on politics, economics, philosophy, etc., and even his entries of recipes and
                    inventories, as well as his own personal journals. Mr. Cranston has also succeeded in breaking the
                    secret cyphers, and the personal shorthand system, used by the remarkably secretive philosopher of
                    common sense. In consequence, he has produced a work which, when read in conjunction with Fox
                    Bourne's earlier biography, provides a complete and very useful portrayal of the details
                    and somewhat striking pecularities of Locke's life. It is a volume, however, which is of
                    much greater value for the Locke scholar than for those less conversant with Locke's
                    intellectual contributions  to the western world. The reader who
                    is only superficially acquainted with Locke's work in philosophy and political theory is
                    likely to be led astray by this biography, for it is rather surprising that the essential element of
                    Locke's life, the growth of his intellectual vision and the development of his philosophy,
                    receives relatively superficial consideration, upon the whole.
            This treatment is unfortunate on two counts. First, the reader is left uncertain about the very facts
                    of Locke's life which it is most important that he know, while at the same time he is
                    provided with all kinds of information about Locke's expenditures for combs, candles, tips
                    for servants, as well as the details of his relations with insignificant people. Second, it is
                    unfortunate because Mr. Cranston would seem to be particularly fitted to the performance of the more
                    important task. His earlier work, Freedom: A New Analysis, shows that he has
                    considerable ability to handle ideas, to see relationships between seemingly separated categories,
                    and to express these matters in clear and precise language. It is to be hoped that he will now turn
                    his attention to the development of Locke's thought. As matters now stand, his biography
                    provides us with a two dimensional picture of Locke, and what is missing is the essential dimension
                    of depth.
            
               Indiana University, Byrum E. Carter
         
         
            
               English Historical Documents. Volume XII, Part 1, 1833-1874. Edited by G. M.
                    Young and W. D. Handcock. (
                  New York: Oxford
                University Press, 1956. Pp. xxiii, 1017.
                    Bibliographies and index. $15.00.)
            This selection of mid-nineteenth century contemporary sources of English history is the fifth
                    published volume of English Historical Documents, compiled under the general
                    editorship of David C. Douglas. It is one of two volumes on the Victorian age. These will be the
                    last (chronologically) of a monumental series designed "to make generally accessible a wide
                    selection of the fundamental sources of English history" (p. iii).
            Without question, teachers and students of nineteenth century English and European history will find
                    this work invaluable. The editors have successfully achieved their aim of illustrating the
                    "profound transformation of English society" during "the epoch of
                    Britain's greatest influence in the world" (p. 3). Two hundred and sixty-nine
                    documents are presented in a volume divided into twelve parts: the monarchy; parliament; natural
                    resources and economic changes; the churches; Chartism and free trade; law, penal system, and
                    courts; central administration; local government; the Poor Law; public health; education; industrial
                    conditions and legislation. Imperial and foreign policy are excluded on the ground that they are
                    well covered in other collections and that they had little effect upon the central theme of
                    Victorian history. Irish affairs are postponed for treatment in Volume XII, Part 2. Nevertheless,
                    the complexity of the Victorian age is vividly illustrated.
            
            Scholarly introductions and select critical bibliographies are valuable parts of the book. There are
                    thirteen introductions (one general and one for each of the twelve parts) and an equal number of
                    bibliographies. The introductions provide not only information which the general reader needs to
                    understand the documents, but interpretations which embody the best of historical scholarship; at
                    times they contain information which is the equivalent of source material, (e.g., the explanatory
                    notes on the principal reform bills, 1852-1866, pp. 121-123). The bibliographies should be of
                    material assistance to all scholars, especially to serious undergraduates and to graduate students.
                    References are made to scholarly journals as well as to books and documents.
            Many of the documents deal forcefully with features of English society which are treated inadequately
                    in the average textbook. Part XI reveals the main problems in education. The reader's
                    attention is held by such topics as governmental assistance to elementary education for procuring
                    competent teachers through a program of incentive and inspection, the reform of 
                        Oxford
                     University, and the general conditions of elementary and secondary education. The
                    documents dealing with public health (Part X) cast light on the beginnings of a new science and
                    illustrate both the strength and the weaknesses of Edwin Chadwick, the protagonist of sanitary
                    reform. Twenty-two pages are given to Chadwick's Report on the Sanitary Condition of the
                    Labouring Population (1842), a searching analysis. The public health and the Poor Law (Part IX)
                    documents show that the Poor Law and its administration involved far more than efficient
                    administration and reduction in taxes. Medical care, pauper education, and the problems presented by
                    large-scale industrial unemployment are described.
            The documents on natural resources and economic changes (Part III) provide a wealth of statistical
                    and factual data and of other illustrative material. The readings on panics, banking, railway
                    operation, and monopoly will fascinate students of American as well as of English history. The
                    section on Chartism and free trade (Part V) contains selections from Peel's and
                    Gladstone's budget speeches as well as selections from the great debates on the repeal of
                    the Corn Laws and on the Charter. The section on industrial conditions and legislation (Part XIII)
                    contains a well-balanced set of sources which will revise one-sided interpretations of the
                    Industrial Revolution.
            Students of present-day religious trends will find the Census Report of 1851-1853 on religious
                    worship to be enlightening. Well-known controversial religious issues are also covered (Part IV, The
                    Churches). Legal and court reform, prison conditions and reform, civil marriage and divorce receive
                    adequate attention (Part VI). Molesworth's classic report on transportation is given twelve
                    pages (pp. 513-525). A number of selections in Parts IX-XII show that contemporary observers were
                    not oblivious to the interrelation of morals, crime and punishment, public health, education, and
                    industrial conditions.
            The well-known political and constitutional developments receive adequate documentation. Basic
                    municipal and county problems and the work of the Metropolitan Board of Works are well illustrated
                    (Part VIII). Civil service, army, and financial reform are described (Part  VII). The role of the monarch and parliamentary reform are well
                    illustrated (Parts I and II).
            The editors of so great an undertaking could scarcely avoid some errors of fact and judgment.
                    Professor P. and Mrs. G. Ford are listed as P. G. Ford (p. 37). The editors might well have noted in
                    the select general bibliography some of the pitfalls that students encounter in using the Parliamentary Papers. Perhaps the citations of Parliamentary
                    Papers could have been improved by including the number of each paper in the references. Twenty
                    pages are devoted to the reform of 
                        Oxford
                     University, but no illustrations of the work of the training colleges are provided.
                    Peel's classic speech of February 16, 1846, is so edited as to undervalue to some extent
                    his conversion to free trade and to overrate the effect of the Irish potato famine upon his decision
                    to press repeal of the Corn Laws. Such errors do not, however, detract from the value of the work.
            All in all, this volume is a splendid collection of printed source material (principally the public
                    records). It will be helpful to specialists in the Victorian age. It will greatly enlighten and
                    interest students of modern history. For the teachers and students of nineteenth century English
                    history who do not have access to adequate libraries, this volume will be indispensable; indeed,
                    those who fail to use it will run the risk of historical ignorance.
            
               Indiana Central College Kenneth E. St. Clair
         
         
         
            
                    Indiana Magazine of History
                
            General Index (XXVI-L, 1930-1954)
            A General Index of the Indiana Magazine of History for the years 1930-1954, Volumes
                    XXVI-L, has been published and is available for distribution. The new index is comprehensive and
                    scholarly, making it an invaluable tool for students, authors, librarians, and teachers. It is about
                    four hundred double-column pages in length.
            The new index has been prepared by Elfrieda Lang, Assistant Curator of Manuscripts, Indiana
                    University Library, who was formerly Assistant Editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. It covers all of the fourteen years during which John D. Barnhart was editor of
                    the IMH, except for the early months of 1955, as well as nearly all of the years
                    during which the late William O. Lynch edited the IMH.
            The new index will be mailed to Indiana libraries which are regular subscribers of the ZMH and will
                    also be mailed to all such libraries which become subscribers during 1958 or 1959. This distribution
                    is made possible through a subsidy provided by the Lilly Foundation. To other libraries and to
                    individuals, the price of the index is $5 per volume. Indiana libraries wanting more than
                    one copy may obtain them at this price. The index is printed on paper of good quality and bound with
                    a tough paper binding.
            Copies of the first General Index, covering the years from the founding of the IMH in 1905 through
                    1929, Volumes I-XXV, are available at $3 per copy (paper binding).
            Orders and checks for either or both volumes should be mailed to Donald F. Carmony, Editor, Indiana Magazine of History, Room 48, Indiana University Library, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. Both volumes, if ordered together, may be obtained for
                        $7.50. Checks should accompany orders except for libraries which prefer to or
                    must order through requisition. No discount from the published rates is available; neither the new
                    General Index nor its predecessor is available through subscription agencies.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
