
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 95, Issue 2, pages 103-201. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:95+issue:2+year:1999&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            "We shall all be Americans": Thomas Jefferson and the Indians
            
                    Peter S. Onuf
                    ∗
                
            In early June, 1781, in one of his last official acts as governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , Thomas Jefferson thanked his "brother" Jean Baptiste Ducoigne, the
                    leader of the Kaskaskias, for his visit to 
                        Virginia
                     and called for continued peace and friendship between their peoples. Three years
                    earlier George Rogers Clark had seized the old French settlement at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , effectively extending 
                        Virginia
                    's jurisdiction through the 
                        Illinois
                     country. An aggressive British presence in 
                        Detroit
                     jeopardized 
                        Virginia
                    's control, however, forcing the Americans to enlist as many Indian allies in the region
                    as possible. "I have joined with you sincerely in smoking the pipe of peace,"
                    Jefferson told Ducoigne, "it is a good old custom handed down by your ancestors, and as
                    such I respect and join in it with reverence. I hope we shall long continue to smoke in friendship
                    together…. We, like you, are Americans, born in the same land, and having the same
                    interests." The most compelling "interest" of all true
                    "Americans" was the elimination of British influence in the backcountry.1
            
            Shortly after meeting with Ducoigne, Jefferson retired from office and began writing his Notes on the State of 
                            Virginia
                        
                (1785). Celebrating his state's glorious prospects, Jefferson offered a
                    powerful rebuttal to the claims of the Comte du Buffon and other European natural philosophers that
                    the New World's inferior natural endowment inevitably led to the degeneracy of animal species,
                    including humans. Toward the end of a long section on 
                        Virginia
                    's "Productions, Mineral, Vegetable and Animal" (Query VI), Jefferson
                    described the natural genius of the continent's indigenous peoples, echoing the benevolent
                    sentiments of his address to the 
                        Kaskaskia
                     chief.
            
               
                  ∗ Peter S. Onuf is Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation
                        Professor of History, University of 
                            Virginia
                        , Charlottesille. This essay will be incorporated into the author's forthcoming
                        book, Jefferson's Empire: The Language of American Nationhood, to be published
                        by University Press of 
                            Virginia
                        . The author is grateful for the helpful comments of Francis G. Hutchins, Jan Lewis,
                        Lindsay Robertson, Leonard Sadosky, and Bernard W. Sheehan.
               
                  1 Thomas Jefferson (cited hereafter as TJ), Speech to Jean Baptiste
                        Ducoigne, 
                            Charlottesville
                        , [ca. 1] June, 1781, in The Papers of Thomas Jefferson (cited
                        hereafter as Jefferson Papers), eds. Julian P. Boyd et al.
                        (27 vols. to date, 
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1950-), VI, 60. On TJ's sponsorship of Clark's unsuccessful expedition, see
                        Dumas Malone, Jefferson the Virginian: Vol. I, Jefferson and His
                            Time (
                            Boston
                        , 1948), 333-36.
            
            
            Uncorrupted by civilization, native Americans reflected man's true nature. Their "keen
                    sensibility," affection for their children, capacity for "strong and
                    faithful" friendship, and unsophisticated "moral sense of right and
                    wrong" preserved social order without compulsion or coercion.2 For
                    Jefferson the Indians were natural republicans who showed that society did not depend on submission
                    to the authority of a governing class but was instead the spontaneous expression of man's sociable
                    nature.
            Despite the implied invitation to Ducoigne and other Indian leaders, Jefferson's generous assessment
                    of Indians' human potential did not lead to the construction of a durable multi cultural political
                    order in the New World. On the contrary, Jeffersonian "philanthropy" provided the
                    moral and intellectual rationale for the removal of Indians across the 
                        Mississippi
                     under President Andrew Jackson.3 When Jefferson celebrated the
                    human potential of native peoples, he embraced the binary opposition of "savagery"
                    and "civilization," situating Indians at an earlier stage of historical
                    development and displacing them from the present moment. In fact, the Indian population of the
                    settled region of 
                        Virginia
                     was at its lowest ebb since the advent of English settlement. Receding across space,
                    Indians, like the artifacts Jefferson assiduously collected, seemed to be relics of a distant
                    past—or perhaps of his own childhood.4 For the time being, of course,
                    native peoples such as the Kaskaskias remained a vital and strategically important presence in the
                    hinterland. But Jefferson anticipated that the same historical drama would be enacted in the West
                    that he and his forefathers had witnessed in 
                        Virginia
                    .
            In stipulating a universal human nature, Jeffersonians explained cultural differences in terms of a
                    grand historical narrative, with mankind moving progressively from a savage to a civilized state. In
                    September, 1824, less than two years before his death, Jefferson looked back on the "march
                    of civilization advancing from the sea coast" westward, a movement that would inevitably
                    consign Indians to the dustbin of history, unless they joined the white man's world: 
                        Let a philosophic observer commence a journey from the savages of the Rocky Mountains,
                            eastwardly towards our sea-coast. These he would observe in the earliest stage of
                            association living under no law but that of nature, subscribing and covering themselves
                                
                        
                           2 TJ, Notes on the State of 
                                            Virginia
                                        
                           , ed. William Peden (1785; reprint, 
                                        Chapel Hill
                                    , N.C., 1954), 59-60, 93.
                        
                           3 My discussion here is deeply indebted to Bernard W. Sheehan,
                                        Seeds of Extinction: Jeffersonian Philanthropy and the American
                                        Indian (
                                        Chapel Hill
                                    , N.C., 1973). See also Bernard W. Sheehan, "The Indian Problem
                                    in the Northwest: From Conquest to Philanthropy," in Launching
                                        the "Extended Republic": The Federalist Era, eds. Ronald
                                    Hoffman and Peter J. Albert (
                                        Charlottesville
                                    , Va., 1996), 190-222; Roy Harvey Pearce, The Savages of
                                        America: A Study of the Indian and the Idea of Civilization (
                                        Baltimore
                                    , 1953); and Robert F. Berkhofer, Jr., The White Man's
                                        Indian: Images of the American Indian from 
                                            Columbus
                                         to the Present (
                                        New York
                                    , 1978).
                        
                           4 Jeffrey L. Hantman and Gary Dunham, "The
                                    Enlightened Archaeologist," Archaeology, XLVI (May/June, 1993),
                                44-49.
                     
                            
                            
                        MANDAN ROBE IN
                                        JEFFERSON'S INDIAN HALL
                                    AT MONTICELLO
                        
                        Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology, 
                                        Harvard
                                     University, 
                              Cambridge,
                                            Massachusetts
                           .
                      with the flesh and skins of wild beasts. He would next find those on our frontiers
                            in the pastoral state, raising domestic animals to supply the defects of hunting. Then
                            succeed our own semi-barbarous citizens, the pioneers of the advance of civilization, and so
                            in his progress he would meet the gradual shades of improving man until he would reach his,
                            as yet, most improved state in our seaport towns. This, in fact, is equivalent to a survey,
                            in time, of the progress of man from the infancy of creation to the present day.5
                  
                     In this philosophic vista, sentimental bonds of "friendship" predicated
                    on a universal human nature gave way to the inexorable and impersonal forces of historical change.
                    Indeed, the Indians' natural gifts, their human potential, made them responsible for either falling
                    in step with the march of civilization or falling by the wayside.
            There was "room enough" in this "chosen country," Jefferson told
                    his countrymen in his First Inaugural Address, "for our descendants to the thousandth and
                    thousandth generation."6 But there was 
                  
                     5 TJ to William Ludlow, 
                                Monticello
                            , September 6, 1824, in The Writings of Thomas Jefferson, eds.
                            Andrew A. Lipscomb and Albert Ellery Bergh (20 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1903-1904), XVI, 74-75.
                  
                     6, TJ, First Inaugural Address, March 4, 1801, in Jefferson Writings,
                            ed. Merrill D. Peterson (
                                New York
                            , 1984), 494.
               
                     no room for the "aboriginal inhabitants" who
                    resisted the tide of settlement and civilization, Jefferson explained in his Second Inaugural four
                    years later. Progress exacted human costs that the sentimental Jefferson was prepared to acknowledge
                    "with the commiseration their history inspires," for the Indians,
                    "endowed with the faculties and the rights of men," remained an example for
                    American republicans, even as they resisted white encroachments: 
                        breathing an ardent love of liberty and independence, and occupying a country which left them
                            no desire but to be undisturbed, the stream of overflowing population from other regions
                            directed itself on these shores; without power to divert, or habits to contend against, they
                            have been overwhelmed by the current, or driven before it; now reduced within limits too
                            narrow for the hunter's state, humanity enjoins us to teach them agriculture and the
                            domestic arts; to encourage them to that industry which alone can enable them to maintain
                            their place in existence, and to prepare them in time for that state of society, which to
                            bodily comforts adds the improvement of the mind and morals.7
                  
                     Of course, civilization of the natives proved to be an elusive goal. Indeed, Jefferson
                    suggested that the Indians best expressed their true nature—their fundamental equality
                    with Europeans—by resisting and falling before the torrent of white migration, a great
                    natural force that cleared the way for civilization.
            The American Revolution was pivotal in the grand sweep of Jefferson's historical narrative. It gave
                    birth to a new American people who were entitled, as Jefferson proclaimed in the Declaration of
                    Independence, "to assume among the powers of the earth" a "separate and
                    equal station" and who could rightfully claim lands bartered away by Indian peoples.8 "You find us, brother, engaged in war with a powerful
                    nation," Jefferson informed Ducoigne in 1781. The war had started "as a family
                    quarrel between us and the English, who were then our brothers." We began as a single
                    people, Jefferson declared, whose "forefathers were Englishmen, inhabitants of a little
                    island beyond the great water…. Being distressed for land," the first Virginians
                    exercised their natural right of emigration "and settled here…. As long as we
                    were young and weak," Jefferson explained, "the English whom we had left behind,
                    made us carry all our wealth to their country, to enrich them; and, not satisfied with this, they at
                    length began to say we were their slaves, and should do whatever they ordered us." The
                    Revolution was set in motion by this betrayal of familial ties. Although they were "grown
                    up and felt ourselves strong," the Americans resisted the final break. They finally were
                    forced "to renounce for ever these unfeeling brethren," as Jefferson had written
                    in his original draft of the Declaration, when the English made war on them, "the last stab
                    to agonizing affection." But, Jefferson 
                  
                     7 TJ, Second Inaugural Address, March 4, 1805, in ibid., 520.
                  
                     8 Declaration of Independence as Adopted by Congress, July 4, 1776, in
                                Jefferson Papers, I, 429.
               
                     told Ducoigne, "we knew we were free as they
                    were." The very act of coming to the New World was itself the act of a free people.
                    "We came here of our own accord and not at their biddance, and were determined to be free
                    as long as we should exist.9
            
            Jefferson's conception of Virginian and American nationhood assumed a fundamental relationship
                    between a particular people and its territorial domain. As Jefferson explained in his Summary View of the Rights of British America (1774), royal assaults on 
                        Virginia
                    's charter boundaries and changes in land policy that retarded the transfer of crown
                    lands to private hands had been major causes of discontent in the Old Dominion. Paradoxically,
                    Jefferson and his fellow Virginians invoked the inviolability of the 1609 
                        Virginia
                     charter, a grant from the English king Charles I, in resisting later encroachments of
                    English kings on their territorial rights. The premise of their reading of the old charter, which
                    had long since been vacated, was that it definitively gave this vast domain to the first settlers
                    and their descendants.
            Virginians argued that if their charter rights were subject to amendment or revocation through
                    subsequent grants, then they were not, properly speaking, rights at all. The territorial issue was
                    thus defined in dichotomous terms: the king was either completely free to distribute property and
                    establish governments where property had not yet been vested in private individuals and where no
                    existing colonial government exercised effective jurisdiction; or he was bound to respect the
                    corporate rights of colonies under charters, construed as contracts or constitutions, and therefore
                    could not exercise his authority within those charter limits in any way that violated the people's
                    present rights or legitimate future expectations. Jefferson made the point succinctly in the Summary View: "kings are the servants, not the proprietors of the
                    people." George III did not own 
                        Virginia
                    , even if ungranted lands in the colony were "crown lands" and were
                    customarily distributed through the agency of royal government. "He has no right to grant
                    lands of himself," declared Jefferson. "From the nature and purpose of civil
                    institutions, all the lands within the limits which any particular society has circumscribed around
                    itself, are assumed by that society, and subject to their allotment only."10
            
            The gravamen in Jefferson's argument was that Virginians constituted a "people" in
                    history, having in the past entered into a contractual agreement with the king and looking to the
                    fulfillment of the contract's terms in the future. The king virtually disappeared in this
                    formulation. Indeed, it was the Virginians who, by assenting to the charter, set their own limits
                    and so perfected their claim to "all 
                  
                     9 TJ, Speech to Jean Baptiste Ducoigne, 
                                Charlottesville
                            , [ca. 1] June, 1781, in ibid., VI, 60-61; Original Rough
                            Draft of the Declaration, in ibid., I, 427.
                  
                     10 Draft of Instructions to the 
                                Virginia
                             Delegates in the Continental Congress, July, 1774, in ibid.,
                            I, 134, 133.
               
                     the lands within." In this interpretation a charter
                    constituted a claim to nationhood, giving 
                        Virginia
                     an historic pedigree that justified (or disguised) its revolutionary act of
                    self-creation. Sublimated in a myth of national origins, this idealized and radically limited
                    conception of monarchical authority provided Jefferson and his republican colleagues with a
                    compelling standard against which the king's abuses could be measured. The charter could then be
                    read as a kind of constitution in which a people secured royal recognition of its preexisting
                    rights. Jefferson's story of voluntary expatriation, whereby Englishmen came to the New World at
                    their own expense and without sacrificing any of the rights they had enjoyed at home, made 
                        Virginia
                    's founders a "people" even before they found 
                        Virginia
                    . Thus the vast territory defined by the charter became the Virginians'
                    "country," with the claims of native proprietors disappearing along with those of
                    the king. This was no coincidence, for Jefferson and his fellow Virginians saw the pretensions of
                    George III and his native allies as inimical to their new republic's vital interests.11
            
            Late in life, Jefferson still cherished childhood memories of visits by the "great Outassete
                    [i.e., Outacity], the warrior and orator of the Cherokees" to his father's home and later
                    to 
                        Williamsburg
                     when Jefferson was studying at William and Mary. Outacity's "sounding voice,
                    distinct articulation, animated action, and the solemn silence of his people at their several fires,
                    filled me with awe and veneration," Jefferson told John Adams in 1812, "altho' I
                    did not understand a word he uttered." Jefferson then "acquired impressions of
                    attachment and commiseration for them which have never been obliterated."12 As Jefferson matured, Indian eloquence acquired new meanings, most famously in the lament
                    of the Mingo chief Logan, whose family allegedly had been "murdered… in cold
                    blood" by Colonel Michael Cresap in the spring of 1774. Logan's speech, addressed to
                    Governor Dunmore, and memorialized in Jefferson's Notes, struck the tragic note
                    that shaped Jefferson's understanding of the Indians' fate. Logan (speaking of himself in the third
                    person) had been "a friend of white men" but was now resigned to his own imminent
                    death. "He will not turn on his heel to save his life. Who is there to mourn for
                    Logan?—Not one."
            Jefferson, for one, would remember Logan. As much as the Virginian cherished the classic authors of
                    antiquity, he would "challenge 
                  
                     11 Refutation of the Argument that the Colonies Were Established at
                            the Expense of the British Nation [after January 19, 1776], in Jefferson
                            Papers, I, 277-85. On charters as "evidence of [colonial] rights,"
                            see John Phillip Reid, The Authority of Rights: Vol. I, Constitutional History
                                of the American Revolution (
                        Madison, Wisc
                     ., 1986),
                            159-68.
                  
                     12 TJ to John Adams, 
                                Monticello
                            , June 11, 1812, in The Adams-Jefferson Letters, ed. Lester J.
                            Cappon (2 vols., 
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1959), II, 307. For a brief account of TJ's response to this speech,
                            given by Outacity on the eve of his departure for 
                                England
                             in 1762, see Malone, Jefferson the Virginian, 60-61.
               
                    
                    
                  THREE CHEROKEES—OUTACITY,
                                AUSTENACO, AND USCHESEES—WHO VISITED
                                LONDON IN 1762
                  National Anthropological Archives, Smithsonian Institution, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C. (Neg. no. 1063-h-1).
               
                     the whole orations of Demosthenes and Cicero, and of any more
                    eminent orator, if Europe has furnished more eminent, to produce a single passage, superior to the
                    speech of Logan." The chiefs oratorical gifts surely marked him as a natural republican,
                    whose eloquent appeal went straight to the heart. But it was the content of Logan's speech,
                    lamenting his family's and his people's displacement and demise, that moved Jefferson. When he
                    "commiserated" the Indians' sad destiny, he mourned the passing of an
                    "uncultivated people who exemplified the natural virtues of the human race in its
                    "childhood." So, too, Jefferson would remember his own childhood, before the
                    arduous process of self cultivation made him a republican revolutionary.13
            
            As governor and president, Jefferson addressed Indian leaders as "brothers" or
                    "children," invoking the traditional language of frontier diplomacy. Fictive kin
                    relationships integrated European and American sovereigns into the complex and shifting system of
                    alliances and obligations that linked Indian peoples. The paternalistic Jefferson was less sensitive
                    to the diplomatic dimension of "family" ties in Indian country than to the way
                    that reliance on such ties demonstrated the natives' pre-political, childlike condition.14 Jefferson's famous celebration of Indian virtues in the Notes was predicated on "the circumstance of their having never submitted themselves
                    to any laws, any coercive power, any shadow of government," because without recourse to
                    "laws" and "government" Indian societies remained small they
                    also remained virtuous: "their only controuls are their manners," Jefferson wrote,
                    "and that moral sense of right and wrong, which, like the sense of tasting and feeling, in
                    every man makes a part of his nature." Among the Indians, offences could only be
                    "punished by contempt, by exclusion from society, or, where the case is serious, as that of
                    murder, by the individuals whom it concerns." Yet the result was not the
                    anarchy—the imagined war of all against all—that certain social contract
                    theorists invoked to justify the coercive authority of the early modern state. On the contrary,
                    Jefferson suggested, the natural affection and sociability that sustained peace and harmony in
                    "lawless" Indian communities constituted an attractive alternative to coercive
                    state power. It might well be asked "whether no law, as among the savage Americans, or too
                    much law, as among the civilized Europeans, submits man to the greatest evil." As
                    "one 
                  
                     13 Query VI ("Productions Mineral, Vegetable and
                            Animal"), in TJ, Notes on the State of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                     , 63, 62. During his vice-presidency TJ took extraordinary pains to
                            vindicate the authenticity of Logan's speech. See Appendix 4 in ibid.,
                            226-58, and the discussion in Malone, Jefferson and the Ordeal of Liberty: Vol. III, Jefferson and His Time (
                                Boston
                            , 1962), 346-56.
                  
                     14 My discussion here is indebted to Francis G. Hutchins,
                            "The Constitution and the Tribes" (unpublished manuscript in author's
                            possession), particularly chapters 4 and 5 on the differences between 
                                Washington
                            's and Jefferson's Indian diplomacy. See also Sheehan, Seeds of
                                Extinction, 152, on Jefferson's tendency to "infantilize the
                            Indian."
               
                     who has seen both conditions of existence," Jefferson
                    voted for lawlessness: "the sheep are happier of themselves, than under care of the
                        wolves."15
            
            The logical corollary of Jefferson's familial conception of Indian society was that it could not
                    survive over an extensive domain. "The Savages" recognized instinctively
                    "that great societies cannot exist without government" and "therefore
                    break them into small ones."16 But these small, self-contained family
                    societies were poorly equipped to resist the encroachments and seductions of powerful European and
                    American neighbors. The Indians could only sustain their way of life as long as they had access to
                    the vast supply of undeveloped land that a primitive, hunting economy required and that isolated
                    them from each other and the world. Jefferson's Edenic view of indigenous societies thus reinforced
                    his sentimental identification with the Indians even as it explained and justified their
                    displacement.
            But there was trouble in paradise, and not simply because of the encroachments of the modern world.
                    Jefferson's idealized account of the Indians' society-without-government reflected the profound
                    ambivalence at the core of his sentimental politics. First, the choice between "too much
                    law" and "no law" was not a genuine one for Americans, who were supposed
                    to submit happily to laws of their own making under their new republican governments. As an
                    enlightened republican, Jefferson was the enemy of despotic rule, where law was the command of
                    supposedly superior beings, but not of "great societies." The revolutionary
                    challenge was to perfect republican governments that would preserve liberty—and the
                    sanctity of republican families—while enabling Americans to participate in, and
                    contribute to, the progress of civilization. For Americans this meant that they should establish
                    more perfect unions, thus expanding the sphere of their republican empire, not retreating into a
                    more primitive, isolated, and lawless state. Under republican governments, the rule of law defined
                    and protected the domestic sphere, securing the ambit of natural virtue and sociability that proved
                    so vulnerable for the Indians.
            Indian lawlessness did not reflect any natural incapacity. As Jefferson assured his friend Marquis de
                    Chastellux, the Indian was "in body and mind equal to the whiteman."17 Yet, despite their natural genius, Indian men would resist the regime of law because of
                    their profound attachment to male prerogatives. If Indian men were natural republicans, exhibiting
                    in their dealings with one another 
                  
                     15 Query XI ("Aborigines"), in TJ, Notes on the State of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                     , 93. For another discussion of "wolves" and
                            "sheep," suggesting that those who, like the Indians, "live
                            without government" enjoyed "an infintely greater degree of happiness than
                            those who live under European governments," see TJ to Edward Carrington, 
                                Paris
                            , January 16, 1787, in Jefferson Papers, XI, 49.
                  
                     16 Query XI ("Aborigines"), in TJ, Notes on the State of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                     , 93.
                  
                     17 TJ to Chastellux, 
                                Paris
                            , June 7, 1785, in Jefferson Papers, VIII, 186.
               
                     the manly virtues Jefferson celebrated in the Notes, the tyranny they exercised over women made them natural aristocrats of the most
                    brutal sort. The very premise of Indian culture, the regime of the "manners" that
                    preserved order in their lawless societies, was male supremacy, a "perversion" of
                    the consensual conjugal union that constituted the foundation of a just and lawful social order.18 Jefferson's belief in the capacity of individual Indians for civil life thus
                    justified his unwillingness to recognize the collective rights of Indian communities, for these
                    communities were based on force, not consent. Tragically, brave Indian men demonstrated this
                    capacity for reason and choice in their willful resistance to white civilization. The tragedy was
                    not simply that such resistance was hopeless, but that Indians chose to defend unnatural
                    prerogatives, not natural rights.
            Indian men could only be virtuous, and only then in their relations with one another, when they were
                    left alone. In Jefferson's view, any form of social or political organization among the Indians that
                    American revolutionaries encountered could only reflect the demoralizing effects of contact with
                    Europeans. Far from promoting the progress of their civilization, adaptations to European diplomacy
                    and warfare stripped Indians of their natural virtues, transforming them into the
                    "merciless Indian Savages" Jefferson excoriated in the Declaration. The natives'
                    moral degradation was a function of their unnatural dependency on an English
                    "father" who had betrayed his children, red and white. But while American patriots
                    resisted George's tyranny, standing up for their rights and assuming the "separate and
                    equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them," their native
                    "brothers" served as the mindless instruments of the king's wrath, rioting
                    "in an undistinguished destruction of all ages, sexes and conditions."19
            
            Jefferson's rage against the Indians proceeded from sentimental identification.20
                    These "wretches" were not ordinary enemies to be treated with the moderation and
                    restraint that the law of civilized nations enjoined. The Indians were at once too close,
                    "brothers" born in the same land, indistinguishable from whites in their
                    "uncultivated" state, and, in their perverse and stubborn opposition to the
                    progress of civilization, too different to be welcomed into the family of nations. In more benign
                    moments, Jefferson could nostalgically 
                  
                     18 Sec the insightful discussions in Jay Fliegelman, Prodigals and Pilgrims: The American Revolution against Patriarchal Authority
                                    (
                        Cambridge, England
                     , 1982), 123-54, and Jan Lewis, "The
                            Republican Wife: Virtue and Seduction in the Early Republic," William
                                and Mary Quarterly, 3rd series, XLIV (October, 1987), 689-721.
                  
                     19 Declaration of Independence, in Jefferson Papers,
                            I, 429, 431.
                  
                     20 For a provocative discussion of Jefferson's misogyny, suggesting
                            that his sentimental celebration of female virtue and republican family life may have
                            proceeded from tormented feelings (especially about his mother), see Kenneth A. Lockridge,
                                On the Sources of Patriarchal Rage (
                                New York
                            , 1992). The best treatment of Jefferson as a sentimentalist is Andrew Burstein,
                                The Inner Jefferson: Portrait of a Grieving Optimist (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1995).
               
                     evoke childhood attachments or project paternalistic solicitude
                    for his childlike charges. But when Indians made war on the Americans, it was as if they had
                    violated some fundamental taboo. Now that they had "commenced war" against us,
                    Jefferson told his childhood friend John Page in August, 1776, Congress was justified in
                    "pushing the war into the heart of their country." But Jefferson would not be
                    satisfied with a mere reprisal that was proportionate to the original injury. "I would
                    never cease pursuing them while one of them remained on this side the Misisippi."21
            
            Like their loyalist counterparts, Indians who served as pawns of British power forfeited their
                    natural place in the new republican dispensation. As fellow "Americans" they
                    should have joined the resistance against a despotic authority, eschewing the corrupt enticements of
                    treaty agreements that deepened their dependency on English weapons and trade goods. Under the
                    bastard political forms that flourished in Indian country during a century of imperial conflict,
                    Indians had failed to develop the civil institutions that would have sustained their collective
                    moral development. The history of the Indians thus offered a dark counterpoint to Jefferson's grand
                    narrative of the progress of white civilization across the continent: their trajectory moved in the
                    opposite direction, from a regime of natural virtue and sociability to the degradation and
                    dependency that contact with European powers entailed. When they looked westward, Americans
                    therefore did not simply encounter an earlier version of themselves; they encountered instead the
                    perverse and corrupt forms that "civilization' would take under the aegis of despotic
                    power, an image of their own future should their struggle for independence fail.
            Jefferson thus offered a counter-narrative to the story of New World degeneracy told by Buffon and
                    Raynal that vindicated the Indians' natural potential as fellow human beings, condemned the
                    corruption of despotic imperial regimes, and identified the fatal weaknesses of Indian societies.
                    The degraded condition of indigenous peoples in Spanish America who had "passed through ten
                    generations of slavery" offered the most poignant testimony to the human costs of despotic
                    rule. Insult compounded injury when natural philosophers such as Buffon, basing their judgments on
                    reports of recent travelers, mistakenly concluded that humans, like other species, degenerated in
                    the New World. Species did not degenerate on this side of the Atlantic because of the debilitating
                    effects of the environment; they were sustained, as Jefferson showed in the Notes, by an
                    extraordinary natural abundance. If the native inhabitants were in such a degraded condition, it was
                    because of their contact with European "civilization." As Jefferson told
                    Chastellux, it was "very unfair… to judge of the natural genius of this race of
                    men" on the basis of the corrupted 
                  
                     21 TJ to John Page, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , August 5, 1776, in Jefferson Papers, I, 485-86.
               
                    
                    
                  UPPER JAWBONE OF THE AMERICAN MASTODON
                  
                  
                     
                                Monticello
                            , Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, Inc., 
                        Charlottesville, Virginia
                     .
                "sample" adduced by Buffon. "It is in N[orth] America we are to
                    seek their original character: and I am safe in affirming, that the proofs of genius given by the
                    Indians of N. America, place them on a level with whites in the same uncultivated
                        state."22
            
            To penetrate beyond Buffon's misrepresentations to a proper assessment of the natives' true
                    "genius," Jefferson recalled his own observations, studied the literary artifacts
                    of earlier encounters, sponsored expeditions into the uncorrupted regions beyond the frontier, and
                    assembled a vast collection of word lists that could provide philological clues to Indian
                        beginnings.23 Jefferson's vindication of the natives' natural equality began
                    with a refutation of Buffon's assertion that "the savage is feeble, and has small organs of
                    generation; he has neither hair nor beard, and nor ardor whatever for his female." In fact,
                    Jefferson retorted, the Indian "is neither more defective in ardor, nor more impotent with
                    his female, than the white reduced to the same diet and exercise." Nor was the Indian woman
                    less fertile than her European counterpart. Birth rates were low because of periodic 
                  
                     22 TJ to Chastellux, 
                                Paris
                            , June 7, 1785, in Jefferson Papers, VIII, 185.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid. On Jefferson's word lists see Sheehan, Seeds of
                                Extinction, 54-56, and Daniel J. Boorstin, The Lost World of Thomas
                                Jefferson (1948; reprint, 
                                Chicago
                            , 1981), 75-80.
               
                     famine, the exploitation of female labor, and the voluntary
                    abortions that preserved the rough balance between population and resources in hunting societies.
                    Indian women "produce and raise as many children as the white women," Jefferson
                    reported, "when married to white traders, who feed them and their children plentifully and
                    regularly, who exempt them from excessive drudgery, who keep them stationary and unexposed to
                        accident."24
            
            That Indian country was so lightly populated was a function both of environmental constraints and
                    cultural choices, not of the natives' sexual deficiencies. These choices, most notably the
                    preference for hunting over agriculture, made Indian societies weak and vulnerable to European and
                    American encroachments. As president, Jefferson never tired of preaching to his Indian
                    "children" the great advantages of a settled, agricultural regime that would
                    enable them to have more children and thus counter the devastating effects of population loss. For
                    Indian men who were, by Jefferson's account, affectionately devoted to their families, this should
                    have been sufficient incentive to abandon their primitive ways, liberate their women from
                    "drudgery," and build farms. Indian men in their natural state were far from
                    unthinking brutes, incapable of reasoned choices. Quite the contrary, Jefferson told Chastellux,
                    Indians exhibited "a male, sound understanding."25 They were
                    brave and stoical when the occasion required but, in stark contrast to the supposedly
                    "civilized Europeans, preferred "finesse" and
                    "persuasion" to the exercise of force. Developing these themes in the Notes, Jefferson offered one of his characteristic paeans to human nature. The Indian
            
                    meets death with more deliberation, and endures tortures with a firmness unknown almost to
                        religious enthusiasm with us: that he is affectionate to his children, careful of them, and
                        indulgent in the extreme: that his affections comprehend his other connections, weakening, as
                        with us, from circle to circle, as they recede from the center: that his friendships are strong
                        and faithful to the uttermost extremity: that his sensibility is keen, even the warriors weeping
                        most bitterly on the loss of their children.26
               
                
            
               
                  24 Query VI ("Productions Mineral, Vegetable and
                        Animal"), in TJ, Notes on the State of 
                                Virginia
                            
                  , 58, 59, 61. In the 1787 edition of the Notes TJ
                        included as an appendix commentaries by Charles Thomson, secretary of Congress, confirming his
                        position on the Indians' potency and potential. See Appendix 2 in ibid.,
                        199-202. There are many discussions of these passages in the literature. I am particularly
                        indebted to Sheehan, Seeds of Extinction, 66-88, and Boorstin, Lost World, 81-88. For an enthusiastic treatment of TJ as a democratic theorist,
                        focusing on this query, see Richard K. Matthews, The Radical Polities of Thomas
                            Jefferson: A Revisionist View (Lawrence, Kans., 1984), 53 65; for a darker account of
                        the implications of TJ's turn to natural philosophy in his argument against the degeneracy
                        thesis, see James W. Ceaser, Reconstructing America: The Symbol of America in
                            Modern Thought (
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., 1997), 19-53.
               
                  25 TJ to Chastellux, 
                            Paris
                        , June 7, 1785, in Jefferson Papers, VIII, 185.
               
                  26 Query VI ("Productions Mineral, Vegetable and
                        Animal"), in TJ, Notes on the State of 
                            Virginia
                        , 59-60.
            
            
            Indians were fully the equals of Europeans in possessing and expressing the social virtues that
                    formed the foundation of the new republican social order. But living in small-scale familial
                    societies, these natural republicans had never developed the legal institutions or cultivated the
                    respect for the law that enabled civilized republicans to extend their empire across the continent.
                    The greatest obstacle to their civilization was the Indians' exploitation of their women. Although
                    they happily lacked the means for the tyranny that characterized the despotic regimes of the Old
                    World, Indian men inflicted an "unjust drudgery" on their women. In this crucial
                    respect, among "every barbarous people… force is law." As a man who
                    admired the natives' manly virtues, Jefferson might well prefer a regime of "no
                    law" where "the stronger sex… imposes on the weaker" to the
                    universal oppression of "too much law." But Jefferson recognized the injustice of
                    this primal form of domination. "It is civilization alone which replaces women in the
                    enjoyment of their natural equality," he wrote in the Notes. If the absence of despotic
                    government over men made Indian societies seem more "natural" to Jefferson, the
                    oppression of Indian women clearly violated their natural rights and showed why the progress of
                    civilization was a moral necessity. "Women are formed by nature for attentions,"
                    he later asserted, "not for hard labor." By this exalted standard, Indian
                    societies, despite their apparent virtues, were fundamentally flawed.27
            
            Jefferson's account of gender relations provides the crucial pivot in his broader discussion of the
                    future of native peoples on the American continent. When Jefferson shifted his gaze from manly
                    virtues to female oppression, the terms of his analysis reversed: it was native, not European,
                    societies that exhibited the most fundamental reliance on the rule of force. Indeed, from this
                    perspective, the rough equality that prevailed among Indian men was merely adventitious: lacking the
                    political means to enforce their will on one another, they were forced to act as if they respected
                    each other's rights. If under such circumstances Indian men developed "a male, sound
                    understanding" that counseled prudence and circumspection in their dealings with other men,
                    however, their moral capacity remained radically undeveloped, for it was the women who served as
                    moral exemplars and arbiters in civilized societies. Civilization "teaches us to subdue the
                    selfish passions," Jefferson asserted. By restraining their licentious impulses to exploit
                    powerless dependents, civilized men learned "to respect those rights in others which we
                    value in ourselves." Jefferson's celebration of Indian society and his moral indictment of
                    European despotism thus gave way to his more profound identification with the great struggle of
                    civilization against savagery. 'Were we in equal barbarism" 
                  
                     27 Query VI ("Productions Mineral, Vegetable and
                            Animal"), in TJ, in Notes on the State of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                     , 60; Memorandums on a Tour from 
                                Paris
                             to Amsterdam, Strasburg, and back to 
                                Paris
                            , March 3 to April 22, 1788, in Jefferson Writings, Peterson,
                            651-52.
               
                     with the Indians, Jefferson concluded, "our females
                    would be equal drudges." This was not only a contest for possession of a continent, but a
                    struggle for the "natural equality" of the sexes in a virtuous republican regime
                    that would foster mankind's moral development.28
            
            Indian societies were like republican families in their reliance on persuasion and affection to
                    sustain harmonious social relations. But it was the radically defective constitution of Indian
                    families, with men exercising brute force over women, that stunted the moral and political
                    development of Indian societies. Lacking a sense of the "rights of others" that,
                    for civilized Europeans, began at home, Indians were incapable of looking beyond the particular to
                    see themselves as part of a "great society" that could secure reciprocal rights
                    and benefits for an expanding population. Habituated by their domestic tyranny over women to confuse
                    force and law, Indian men could not imagine their own submission to a regime of law as anything less
                    than dishonorable and degrading, even if it was grounded in consent.
            The proud independence of Indian men constituted the most formidable obstacle to the assimilation of
                    indigenous peoples in republican society. Those cultural traits that some Americans professed to
                    admire in the natives—the "ardent love of liberty and independence"
                    that Jefferson memorialized in his Second Inaugural—were, paradoxically, those traits
                    that guaranteed their demise. With "no desire but to be undisturbed," natives
                    resisted those changes—from hunting to agriculture, from oppressing women to recognizing
                    their just claims—that would have promoted not only the growth of population but, more
                    importantly, the moral and political development that would enable them to participate as equal
                    partners in the expansion of the Americans' new empire of liberty.29 Thus, while
                    the Americans declared their independence from Europe in order to promote the progress of
                    civilization, Indians fought a hopeless rearguard action against the future, identifying their own
                    independence with a barbarous regime that retarded the population and prosperity of the western
                    world. The tragic outcome of this struggle was predetermined by willful Indian men who refused to
                    allow their peoples to fulfill their human potential.
            The whites' great advantage in displacing Indians from their aboriginal homes was demographic. With
                    every succeeding generation the American population doubled, increasing the pressure of settlement
                    to the West even as the Indians' numbers—and their ability to resist—dwindled.
                    But this progress, however certain in the long run, was subject to obstacles and reverses,
                    particularly during the revolutionary era when Britain mobilized Indian allies in assaults on 
                  
                     28 Query VI ("Productions Mineral, Vegetable and
                            Animal"), in TJ, Notes on the State of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                     , 60.
                  
                     29 TJ, Second Inaugural Address, March 4,1805, in Jefferson Writings, Peterson, 520.
               
                     the new nation's frontiers. The very weaknesses that Jefferson
                    believed would ultimately guarantee the Indians' demise made them dangerous enemies in war. Their
                    hunting, bellicose culture may have oppressed women, retarded population growth, and prevented moral
                    and political progress in Indian societies, but it also produced formidable warriors. Insufficiently
                    domesticated by female influence, impatient with and contemptuous of the rule of law, Indian men
                    were vulnerable to European corruption. As they exchanged their services as mercenaries for
                    essential material support, these wilderness aristocrats—a leisured, warrior class that
                    traditionally lived off the labor of oppressed women—became increasingly dependent on
                    their European masters. Proud and independent Indians were thus transformed into Jefferson's
                    "merciless Savages," ruthlessly efficient tools of ministerial corruption.
            When Jefferson contemplated Indians at war, as he did throughout the Revolution and its protracted
                    aftermath, the image of wilderness aristocrat obliterated the natural republican he had invoked in
                    his polemic against the degeneracy thesis of Buffon and Raynal. This degradation was cultural and
                    historical, Jefferson insisted, the final sad effect of the "barbarous perversion of the
                    natural destination of the two sexes" in Indian societies. As long as the Indians remained
                    immune to Europe's corrupting influence, the effects of this "perversion" were
                    mitigated by the small scale of their societies and the inability of savage men in their natural
                    state to tyrannize each other systematically. But competing European imperial powers solved the
                    problem of scale for Indian warriors, providing both the armaments that only advanced commercial
                    societies could produce and the political resources of "great societies" that
                    could exercise authority over extensive empires. As Jefferson wrote in April, 1788, while traveling
                    in the French countryside, "every Indian man is a soldier or warrior, and the whole body of
                    warriors constitute a standing army, always employed in war or hunting. To support that army, there
                    remain no laborers but the women. Here, then, is so heavy a military establishment, that the civil
                    part of the nation is reduced to women only."30
            
            American patriots could extol the bravery of Indian warriors, in retreat before the inexorable
                    torrent of white settlement, desperately fighting to preserve their traditional way of life.31 And, as in Jefferson's apotheosis of Chief Logan, Indian resistance could be
                    compared to the patriotic mobilization of citizen-soldiers in defense of their own families and
                    communities. For Jefferson, the "half-way pacifist," defensive war was always
                    legitimate, especially when republican men fought to protect their women and children.32 But for Jefferson 
                  
                     30 TJ, Memorandums on a Tour, in Jefferson Writings,
                            Peterson, 651-52.
                  
                     31 On the "noble savage" see Sheehan, Seeds of Extinction, 89-116.
                  
                     32 Reginald C. Stuart, The Halfway Pacifist: Thomas
                                Jefferson's View of War (
                        Toronto,
                                    Canada
                     , 1978).
               
                     and fellow patriots who drew deeply on the English libertarian
                    tradition, there was a fundamental difference between citizens who became soldiers in times of local
                    and national emergency and a "standing army," hireling soldiers such as those
                    "foreign Mercenaries" George III had sent to America "to compleat the
                    works of death, desolation and tyranny." When "merciless Indian Savages"
                    served as mindless tools of British despotism, the worst of two worlds converged, threatening to
                    retard and reverse the progress of republican civilization across the continent.33
            
            For Jefferson the familial forms that governed Indian diplomacy and made European sovereigns into
                    "fathers" of dependent native peoples represented another, more dangerous
                    manifestation of the fundamental flaw of Indian societies, the tyranny of Indian men over their
                    women. Where later generations of historians have recognized that the elaboration of these kinship
                    connections constituted creative intercultural adaptations to the changing balance of power in
                    Indian country, Jefferson could see only the debasement and corruption of family values.34 Indians were bound to transgress the sacred boundaries of family life, the
                    moral foundation of civilized societies, precisely because their families were founded on the rule
                    of force, not love. Thus, at the very moment that patriotic Americans were overthrowing monarchy and
                    aristocracy—the perverted forms of familial rule that retarded the progress of political
                    civilization in the Old World—Indian peoples embraced new, more degrading forms of
                    dependency as the "children" of European despots.
            During wartime Jefferson's most immediate and compelling concern was with the military threat that
                    Indian enemies presented to vulnerable frontier settlements. But his apparently paradoxical account
                    of Indian strength and weakness—a formidable fighting force that lived off the dwindling
                    resources of demoralized and depopulated communities—pointed to a more pervasive threat.
                    The Indians' ultimate removal may have been inevitable, but the actual sequence of events that led
                    to that outcome would leave an indelible imprint on the western landscape. The great fear shared by
                    Jefferson and like-minded colleagues was that competition for Indian lands among the American states
                    and private land companies, as well as between the new nation and its imperial neighbors, would,
                    like the bidding for Indian auxiliaries in wartime, foster dangerous concentrations 
                  
                     33 Declaration of Independence, in Jefferson Papers,
                            I, 429.
                  
                     34 James H. Merrell, "Declarations of Independence: Indian
                            White Relations in the New Nation," in The American Revolution: Its
                                Character and Limits, ed. Jack P. Greene (
                                New York
                            , 1987), 197-223; Richard White, The Middle Ground: Indians,
                                Empires, and Republics in the Great Lakes Region, 1650-1815 (
                                New York
                            , 1991); Colin G. Calloway, The American Revolution in Indian
                                Country: Crisis and Diversity in Native American Communities (
                                New York
                            , 1995); Eric Hinderaker, Elusive Empires: Constructing Colonialism
                                in the Ohio Valley, 1673-1800 (
                                New York
                            , 1997); Hutchins, "Constitution and the Tribes."
               
                     of property and power. If fertile western lands offered a
                    vision of prosperity for "our descendants to the thousandth and the thousandth
                    generation," they also dazzled speculators with the possibility of landed properties that
                    would support their aristocratic pretensions.35 The uncertain future of the vast
                    domain the Indians relinquished hinged on the transactions, violent or peaceful, that led to their
                    removal. The question for Jefferson and his followers was not whether in the process justice would
                    be done to native proprietors, but rather whether the Americans, in resolving their own conflicts
                    over jurisdiction and property rights, would lay the groundwork for the expansion of republican
                    institutions or for a counterrevolutionary, aristocratic revival.36
            
            The future of the West posed a series of related problems. First, the new American union had to
                    resolve the conflicting jurisdictional pretensions of its members, potentially the most divisive and
                    destructive legacy of the old imperial regime. Jefferson and his fellow Virginians insisted that the
                    other states would have to recognize the integrity and inviolability of their commonwealth's
                    colonial charter claims, the same demand they had made on George III; for their part, the Virginians
                    "ceded, released, and forever confirmed" to the peoples of neighboring states the
                    Virginian territory that had been granted to them by subsequent charters.37 To
                    the consternation of 
                        Virginia
                    's delegates, this apparently straightforward demand was rejected in 1781 when they
                    tendered their state's offer to cede the region north and west of the Ohio
                    River to the 
                        United States
                     in exchange for confirmation of 
                        Virginia
                    's remaining claims. The impasse jeopardized union at the very time the new nation's
                    military and diplomatic success most depended on cooperation among the states.
            
               
                  35 As George 
                            Washington
                         wrote in 1784, "men in these times talk with as much facility of fifty, a
                        hundred, and even 500,000 Acres as a Gentleman formerly would do of 1000 acres." See
                        George 
                            Washington
                         to Jacob Read, November 3,1784, in The Writings of George 
                                Washington
                            
                  , ed. John C. Fitzpatrick (39 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1931-1944), XXVII, 486. See the discussion in Peter S. Onuf, Statehood and Union: A History of the Northwest Ordinance (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1987), 33-36.
               
                  36 Thomas Perkins Abernethy, Western Lands and the American
                            Revolution (
                            New York
                        , 1937); Dumas Malone, Jefferson the Virginian, 247-60; Peter S.
                        Onuf, The Origins of the Federal Republic: Jurisdictional Conflicts in the 
                                United States
                            , 1775-1787 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1983), 75-102; TJ, Notes and documents relating to the Transylvania and Other
                        Claims and Bills for Establishing a Land Office, editorial notes, in Jefferson
                            Papers, II, 64-66, 133-38. Jefferson was not troubled by the mode in which Indian
                        titles had been liquidated: "That the lands of this country were taken from them by
                        conquest, is not so general a truth as is supposed. I find in our historians and records,
                        repeated proofs of purchase, which cover a considerable part of the lower country; and many more
                        would doubtless be found on further search." In his original manuscript, Jefferson
                        acknowledged that "these purchases were sometimes made with the price in one hand and
                        the sword in the other." But more transactions set a higher standard, perhaps
                        indicative of the Virginians' moral progress: "The upper country we know has been
                        acquired altogether by purchases made in the most unexceptionable form." TJ, Notes on the State of 
                                Virginia
                            
                  , 96, 281n.
               
                  37
                        
                            Virginia
                         Constitution, June 29, 1776, in Jefferson Papers, I, 383.
            
            
            
               
                        Virginia
                    's leaders had a simple explanation for the obduracy of the "landless"
                    state bloc in Congress: land speculators who based their claims to western property on treaties or
                    private purchases from the Indians that disregarded 
                        Virginia
                    's charter rights distributed company shares to corrupt politicians in
                            
                  Maryland, Pennsylvania, New Jersey
               , and
                    other states. To advance their own interests, aspiring aristocrats would recklessly put the
                    Revolution itself at risk. But this was not surprising, after all, for all of the great land
                    speculations could be traced back to the colonial era, when prominent politicians on both sides of
                    the Atlantic combined forces to grab large chunks of Indian country. Perhaps these silent English
                    partners lurked in the background, exercising a corrupt influence that was manifest in land company
                    machinations. Perhaps the ostensible patriots who claimed to lead the companies would benefit from
                    the failure of the Revolution, particularly if 
                        Virginia
                     and the other landed states succeeded in vindicating their charter claims, disallowing
                    prior grants and purchases, and preempting future encroachments.38
            
            The western lands controversy thus reinforced the Virginians' fundamental understanding of the
                    Revolution as the vindication of the corporate rights of the peoples of British America, defined by
                    their charters, against the assaults of a corrupt metropolitan government that was beholden to the
                    selfish private interests of speculators and financiers. As the controversy unfolded, however, the
                    implications of that understanding became increasingly complicated and confusing. In 1776
                    enthusiastic patriots might well imagine that "killing the king" would inaugurate
                    the republican millennium. But such hopes were all too soon dashed: the removal of the king simply
                    meant that corruption would take on new, more insidious forms. Under the influence of the land
                    companies, corrupt congressmen would argue that the 
                        United States
                     should assume title to the crown lands in the West, disregarding state charters.39 In a sharply worded remonstrance of December, 1779, the 
                        Virginia
                     Assembly warned, 
                        Should Congress assume a jurisdiction, and arrogate to themselves a right of adjudication,
                            not only unwarranted by, but expressly contrary to the fundamental principles of the
                            confederation; superseding or controuling the internal policy, civil regulations, and
                            municipal laws of this or any other State, it would be a violation of public faith,
                            introduce a most dangerous precedent which might hereafter be urged to deprive of territory
                            or subvert the sovereignty and government of any one or more of the 
                        
                           38 Onuf, Origins of the Federal Republic,
                                    76-83. On the land companies see Shaw Livermore, Early American Land Companies:
                                    Their Influence on Corporate Development (
                                        New York
                                    , 1939). Membership lists may be found in the Thomas Jefferson Papers
                                    (microfilm ed., Library of Congress, 
                                        Washington
                                    , D.C.), VII, 1164 (Vandalia), 1166 (Indiana and 
                                        Illinois
                                    -
                                        Wabash
                                    ).
                        
                           39 This was the recommendation of "Lucius Quintus
                                    Cincinnatus," The Mote Point of Finance, Or the Crown Lands
                                        Equally Divided (broadside, 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    , December 30, 1779).
                     
                            
                            
                                United States
                            , and establish in Congress a power which in process of time must degenerate
                            into intolerable despotism.40
                  
                     By this jurisdictional legerdemain, Congress would take the place of the king, using its
                    property to spread its influence among a new class of supposedly republican courtiers and retainers;
                    a new metropolis would emerge, subjecting the American provinces, stripped of their rights, to its
                    despotic rule. In resisting these assaults on their vital interests, Virginians learned that
                    counterrevolutionary threats were pervasive, even among those Americans who most loudly professed
                    their patriotism. It was a lesson that would shape the responses of Jefferson and like-minded 
                        Virginia
                     patriots to the dangers of "consolidation" in decades to come.
            Concerns about the consolidation of power at the center were inextricably linked to anxieties about
                    how that power would be exercised on the peripheries of the new republican empire. To prevent an
                    aristocratic revival it was essential that republican governments act as careful stewards of the
                    public domain. The great challenge was to liberate landholdings from the incubus of feudal tenures,
                    enabling free men to enjoy genuine independence on their own properties. Looking back on the
                    headright system of early 
                        Virginia
                     (under which, supposedly, land was distributed to free white settlers), and looking
                    forward to rising generations of young republicans spreading across the hinterland, Jefferson saw
                    the West as a vast reservoir of free land, unencumbered by the fraudulent titles that proliferated
                    under a corrupt ministry. Jefferson's hostility to feudal tenures, and the aristocratic rule that
                    they supported, provided the ideological justification for overlooking the imperfect forms of
                    "property" that covered the West in the wake of imperial rivalries, land
                    speculation, and the opportunism (or desperation) of native peoples. His vision of a "fee
                    simple empire" was the radical republican counterpoint to a British imperial regime that
                    threatened to transplant feudal corruption to the New World, and so reverse the proper course of
                    world history.41
            
            The British Empire in North America was an incoherent complex of discrete jurisdictions, each
                    standing in a distinct, though not often clearly defined, relationship to metropolitan authority.
                    Jurisdictional confusion in the West was exacerbated in the last decade of imperial rule by a
                    diplomatic revolution, ratified by the Peace of 
                        Paris
                     in 1763, that destroyed the balance of power that Indian tribes, most notably the
                    Iroquois, had successfully exploited for decades. 
                  
                     40 Remonstrance of December 14, 1779 (drafted by George Mason), in The Statutes at Large: Being a Collection of All the Laws of 
                                    Virginia
                                , from the First Session of the Legislature, in the Year 1619, ed.
                            William Waller Hening (13 vols., 
                                Richmond
                            , Va., 1809-1823), X, 557-59.
                  
                     41 Henry Nash Smith, Virgin Land: The American West as
                                Symbol and Myth (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1950), 15-18, 132-44; Drew R. McCoy, The Elusive Republic:
                                Political Economy in Jeffersonian America (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1980).
               
                     Anxious to curb the costs of their newly extended empire,
                    British authorities reduced their "gifts" or subsidies to Indian clients even as
                    they sought to exploit new sources of revenue in the coastal colonies. Meanwhile, settlers and
                    speculators pushed aggressively against the successive boundaries—beginning with the
                    Proclamation line of 1763—that were supposed to restrain westward settlement. The
                    escalating costs of negotiating and enforcing these boundaries led imperial authorities to delegate
                    increasing responsibility to the colonial governments, subverting any possibility of effective,
                    centralized rule in Indian country. It was against this background of imploding imperial authority
                    and proliferating claims in backcountry that Virginians projected their own exclusive territorial
                    right to the vast domain defined by the 1609 charter.42
            
            To secure 
                        Virginia
                    's territorial integrity, Jefferson and his colleagues asserted their state's monopoly
                    over Indian purchases in the 1776 constitution.43 Threats to 
                        Virginia
                    's essential rights and vital interests ultimately derived from the "detestable
                    and insupportable Tyranny" of George III, but the king's corrupt influence was most
                    immediately and dangerously present in the machinations of royal officials in America and their
                    Indian clients. For republican Virginians, the "covenant chain" that linked the
                    English king to his native children was recast as a chain of corruption, which was the epitome of an
                    unnatural aristocracy. In exchange for patronage and protection, servile and dependent Indians
                    bartered away their dubious and at best imperfect rights to western lands, providing the putative
                    source for the many title claims that threatened to deprive future generations of Virginians of
                    their patrimony. Conspiring against the property rights of a free and independent people, the king
                    and his Indian clients, the highest and the lowliest, were slavishly interdependent. When the war
                    came and the king's character and intentions stood revealed, it was hardly surprising to Jefferson
                    that the English tyrant's "Savage" tools should descend on the American frontiers
                    in a frenzy of "undistinguished Destruction."44
            
            
               
                  42 My understanding of the old regime in Indian country is indebted to
                        Dorothy V. Jones, License for Empire: Colonialism by Treaty in Early America (
                            Chicago
                        , 1982), 36-119. See also Louis De Vorsey, Jr., The Indian Boundary in
                            the Southern Colonies, 1763-1775 (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 1961); John Alden, John Stuart and the Southern Colonial
                            Frontier: A Study of Indian Relations, War, Trade, and Land Problems in the Southern
                            Wilderness, 1754-1775 (
                            Ann Arbor
                        , Mich., 1944); White, Middle Ground, 205-365; Hinderaker, Elusive Empires, 134-75; and Daniel K. Richter, "Native Peoples of
                        North America and the Eighteenth-Century British Empire," in The
                            Eighteenth Century, ed. P.J. Marshall: Vol. II, The 
                                Oxford
                             History of the British Empire, ed. William Roger Louis
                                (
                     Oxford, England
                  , 1998), 347-71.
               
                  43 And no purchases of Land shall be made of the Indian Natives but on
                        behalf of the Publick, by authority of the General Assembly." 
                            Virginia
                         Constitution, June 29, 1776, in Jefferson Papers, I, 383.
               
                  44 The language is Jefferson's and may be found both in the 
                            Virginia
                         Constitution and in successive drafts of the Declaration. See Constitution as
                        Adopted, in Jefferson Papers, I, 378, and Composition Draft, Original Rough
                        Draft, and Declaration as Adopted, in ibid., 419, 425, 431.
            
            
            Jefferson's language in the Declaration seems intemperate to modern commentators, striking a note
                    that hardly resonates with the philosophical and philanthropic views eloquently expressed in the Notes and in his addresses to Indian leaders. But the animus in the Declaration
                    was directed against a corrupt imperial regime that had reduced so many natives to their present
                    pathetic state, not against the Indians who might still be found in their
                    "natural" condition or in their reformed state if they submitted to the new
                    republican dispensation. The frightening scenes Jefferson conjured in the Declaration revealed
                    profound anxieties about the king's awesome power to mobilize so many auxiliaries in his assault on
                    American liberties: from "large Armies of foreign Mercenaries," to
                    "merciless Indian Savages," to "fellow-subjects" allured by the
                    prospect of the "forfeiture & confiscation of our property," to the
                    enslaved Africans who labored on 
                        Virginia
                    's plantations. This ever-tightening circle of despotism, culminating in George's
                    instigation of murderous slave revolts, shaped Jefferson's dark image of the British Empire on the
                    eve of American independence.45 Whatever Americans might declare, this empire
                    was not about to whither away but was pervasive, reaching through porous frontiers into the
                    neighborhoods of treasonous "fellow citizens" and into the homes of patriot
                    planters.
            In some fundamental sense Jefferson may have been expressing anxiety about his own virtue, or more
                    plausibly about the virtue of his countrymen. How else could the toryism of so many Americans be
                    explained? But Jefferson was less concerned with character defects than with the corrupt foundation
                    of the imperial constitution: the inequality of persons, classes, and communities that fostered
                    dependency and servility and produced so many willing tools of despotic rule. Thus for Jefferson the
                    crucial republican premise was equality. Within 
                        Virginia
                     this meant the dismantling of primogeniture and entail, the legal props of a landed
                    aristocracy, where families—and generations—were unequal; it also meant that
                    the new state's public domain should not be encumbered by the claims of court favorites,
                    speculators, or their Indian clients, but should be broadly distributed on equal terms to all of 
                        Virginia
                    's free families.46 The integrity of 
                  
                     45 The references to "Mercenaries" and
                            "Savages" are to the Declaration as Adopted, ibid., I,
                            431; the passage on "fellow subjects" appears only in TJ's Original Rough
                            Draft, in ibid., I, 425.
                  
                     46 The point of these reforms in the land system, TJ later explained,
                            was "to make an opening for the aristocracy of virtue and talent, which nature has
                            wisely provided for the direction of the interests of society," thus replacing the
                            "aristocracy of wealth" that had flourished under British rule. Before
                            independence "the transmission of [landed] property from generation to generation
                            in the same name raised up a distinct set of families who, being privileged by law in the
                            perpetuation of their wealth were thus formed into a Patrician order, distinguished by the
                            splendor and luxury of their establishments. From this order too the king habitually
                            selected his Counsellors of State, the hope of which distinction devoted the whole corps to
                            the interests & will of the crown." TJ, Autobiography
                            [1821], in Jefferson Writings,
               
                    
                    
                        Virginia
                    's public domain depended in turn on the constitution of a new American union that was
                    purged of all monarchical forms and influences. The new states all must be republican, independent
                    of each other and the world, yet bound together in a perfectly harmonious and consensual union. Just
                    as consent among individuals was only possible where they were truly equal, so too states in union
                    must be equal. The British imperial regime prior to independence seemed deeply flawed, not only
                    because of the dangerous concentration of power in the metropolis, but equally because of the wide
                    diversity of colonial governments and jurisdictions through which Britain ruled America.
                    "Divide and rule" was the ministry's motto: distinctive
                    "constitutions," overlapping boundaries, and competing interests would keep
                    provincial Americans at each other's throats—and guarantee the supremacy of a corrupt
                    ministry.
            Jefferson and fellow defenders of 
                        Virginia
                    's claims insisted that the states must enjoy a territorial monopoly in the union,
                    precluding any jurisdiction by a less than equal, less than fully republican government that would
                    concentrate power dangerously in the central government. Provision for the creation of new and equal
                    republican states in the hinterland, as required by the state land cessions to Congress, meant that
                    the federal government would never be able to develop a system of colonies or client states in the
                    West that could be mobilized against the original members of the union.47 This
                    determination to prevent the emergence of a powerful metropolitan government meant that there was no
                    political space for native peoples within the new American empire. Adroit negotiators in the
                    diplomacy of the imperial regime, Indians were too prone to seek corrupt, unequal
                    advantages—"gifts," subsidies, and military aid—that would
                    make genuine union impossible; lacking the attainments of political civilization, native peoples
                    were incapable of forming true republican governments and therefore of meaningfully consenting to
                    any durable engagements.
            The ultimate victory of 
                        Virginia
                     and the other landed states in the protracted controversy set the framework for Indian
                    diplomacy in the early republic. Had Congress been able to assert its own title in the West without
                    depending on the cession of state claims, it would have been, as successor to the crown's
                    prerogatives, better situated 
                  Peterson, 32. Holly Brewer has recently shown that these reforms had a much greater effect
                            than historians have generally recognized. See Holly Brewer, "Entailing Aristocracy
                            in Colonial 
                                Virginia
                            : 'Ancient Feudal restraints' and Revolutionary Reform," William and Mary Quarterly, 3rd series, LIV (April, 1997), 307-46.
                  
                     47 Nor could frontier squatters and speculators be allowed to form
                            their own states. These "banditii and adventurers" would form
                            "Establishments not only on dissimilar principles to those which form the basis of
                            our Republican Constitutions, but such as might eventually prove destructive to
                            them." 
                                Virginia
                             Delegates to Governor Benjamin Harrison, November 1, 1783, in Letters of the Members of the Continental Congress, comp. Edmund C. Burnett (8
                            vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1921-1936), VII, 365.
               
                     to enter into political engagements with native peoples.48 But Congress's title in the new national domain would be both derivative and conditional: the vast western hinterland would be held in
                    trust for future white settlers who, as the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 promised, would eventually
                    be entitled to draft their own republican constitutions and claim admission to the union on equal
                    terms. In other words, Congress announced that any political arrangements short of statehood would
                    be temporary: direct rule by Congress in the "territorial" phase would give way to
                    republican self-rule; implicitly, any recognition of Indian rights under treaties also was
                    understood to be provisional, subject to future negotiations that would guarantee the land's highest
                    use and the ultimate establishment of republican government, the most civilized form of rule.49
            
            Congress's reliance on state titles logically culminated in the "conquest theory,"
                    first set forth in negotiations with the Indians at Fort Stanwix, 
                        New York
                    , in 1784. As wartime allies of the British, congressional commissioners explained, the
                    tribes had forfeited any legitimate claims within the limits of the 
                        United States
                     as recognized by the recently concluded Peace of Pans and therefore could only continue
                    to live in their ancestral homes at the new nation's sufferance: "you are a subdued people;
                    you have been overcome in war which you entered into with us, not only without provocation, but in
                    violation of most sacred obligations."50 Congress now pretended to much
                    more authority in Indian country than the British "father" had ever claimed before
                    American independence. But Congress did not stake out this ultimately untenable position on its own
                    behalf. On the contrary, because the conquest theory was premised on the sufficiency of the state
                    titles, it preempted politically controversial counterclaims from other sources, most notably from
                    Congress itself as the successor to the British crown's jurisdiction in the West. Accepting all
                    state cessions, regardless of their defects and mutual contradictions, 
                  
                     48 For Jefferson and many of his fellow Virginians, the protracted
                            agitation by the land companies against 
                                Virginia
                            's jurisdiction cemented the connections among the defense of charters,
                            resistance to a strong central government, and hostility to native rights. The most
                            important assaults on the charter included Thomas Paine, Public Good: Being an
                                Examination into the Claims of 
                                    Virginia
                                 to Vacant Western Territory (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1780), and Samuel Wharton, Plain Facts: Being an Examination into
                                the Rights of the Indian Nations of America (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1781). In their efforts to reach some kind of settlement with the federal
                            government, Wharton and his land company associates continued to argue against 
                                Virginia
                            's charter claims long after the cession was completed, thus reinforcing the
                            link between land speculation and solicitude for native rights.
                  
                     49 Francis Philbrick, The Laws of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 Territory, 1809-1818 (
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society Collections, Vol. XXV; 
                                Springfield
                            , 1950), introduction; Onuf, Statehood and Union, 44-66.
                  
                     50 Commissioners quoted in The Olden Time, ed.
                            Neville Craig (2 vols., 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1876), II, 406-28. The
                            commissioners' position was based on a congressional report adopted on October 15, 1783, in
                            Journals of the Continental Congress, ed. Worthington C. Ford (34 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1904-1937), XXV, 681-93.
               
                     Congress would not challenge the territorial integrity of the
                    states within their remaining, still extensive claims; in dealings with the Indians, Congress would
                    act as the agent of the respective states, within their recognized boundaries, or of the states
                    collectively in the new national domain. The conquest theory fully accorded with these political
                    imperatives. In effect, the Confederation government promised not to pursue an independent policy
                    with the Indian tribes that, through the process of treaty negotiations, could provide a plausible
                    foundation for its own title claims, claims that could then be turned against the states.51
            
            The peace and stability of the American union depended on the definitive resolution of jurisdictional
                    issues, not the perpetual conflict and negotiation that historically characterized Indian diplomacy.
                    The need for a settlement offered eloquent testimony to the weakness of an
                    "imbecilic" union teetering on the verge of collapse. But while resolution of the
                    land controversy kept the 
                        United States
                     from falling apart and thus offered the wise men at 
                        Philadelphia
                     their historic opportunity to frame a still "more perfect" union, it
                    defied geopolitical realities in Indian country. Abandoned by their British protectors, the tribes
                    had not been represented at the Peace of 
                        Paris
                     in 1782 and their concerns were not heard in Congress when the states resolved their
                    differences and charted the future of the West. The Indians' absence was no coincidence but rather
                    the essential condition for bringing these negotiations to a successful conclusion. For it was only
                    by ignoring the indigenous peoples that the American states could assert their collective claims
                    against the other sovereignties of the world and simultaneously reconcile their own conflicting
                    claims without risking a dangerous concentration of power in Congress. Not surprisingly, the logic
                    of these settlements was lost on the Indians. Indeed, the combination of extravagant American
                    pretensions, articulated in the conquest theory, and the new nation's obvious weaknesses as a
                    military "power" set the stage for a series of disastrous and humiliating
                    setbacks. The Americans could not have devised a surer means to promote a belligerent, pan-Indian
                    mobilization, even among tribes that had allied with them, or remained neutral, during the
                    Revolution.
            Historians of early American Indian policy have lavished the conquest theory with all the contempt it
                        deserves.52 Pacification of 
                  
                     51 Chief Justice John Marshall's "discovery
                            doctrine," set forth in the landmark case of Johnson v. McIntosh (1823), reaffirmed state titles as the foundation of federal
                            title, thus turning back the last serious land company challenge to the charter claims of 
                                Virginia
                             and other ceding states on behalf of the Indians' original property rights. The
                            definitive study of this case is Lindsay Robertson, "Johnson v. M'Intosh: Land, Law
                            and the Politics of Federalism, 1773-1842" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                                Virginia
                            , 1997). For another interpretation see Hutchins, "Constitution and the
                            Tribes," chapter 9.
                  
                     52 See, for instance, Reginald Horsman, Expansion and
                                American Indian Policy, 1783-1812 (East Lansing, Mich., 1967), 40-45; Francis Paul
                            Prucha, American Indian Treaties: The History of a Political Anomaly
                            (Berkeley, Calif., 1994), 42-48.
               
                     the frontier depended both on mobilizing a more credible force
                    than the Americans could muster and on negotiating with the natives in good faith, according to the
                    traditional conventions of Indian diplomacy. The new 
                        Washington
                     administration learned these lessons quickly, although it took several years before
                    Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    's decisive campaign against the 
                        Ohio
                     Indians prepared the way for a return to more conventional treaty making. Carrying a
                    much bigger stick than the old Congress, the Federalists negotiated reasonable treaty settlements
                    with the Indians, one of their most important achievements in consolidating the new nation's
                    position in a dangerous world.53 But the emerging Republican opposition was
                    skeptical about Federalist Indian policy, and not simply because early military setbacks offered
                    plausible targets for partisan sniping. Sniffing "consolidation" in every shifting
                    breeze, Republicans feared that the administration would make unacceptable concessions to the tribes
                    and to their British sponsors in order to pacify the frontier: recognizing Indian rights through
                    treaties could subvert the carefully crafted territorial settlement on which the federal union
                    itself was grounded.
            The thrust of Republican polemics through the 1790s was to show that Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                     and his accomplices were intent on transforming the new national government into a
                    corrupt, British style aristocracy, covering their tracks through loose misconstructions of the
                    federal Constitution.54 A properly strict interpretation of the Constitution
                    would respect the states' territorial rights as they were confirmed in the settlement of the western
                    lands controversy. Instead, as the opposition's leading ideologue John Taylor explained, the
                    administration's misguided efforts to placate the Indians violated the conditions of cession
                    compacts in the Northwest and "dismembered" states to the south.55 For a Jeffersonian who remembered why Virginians had fought the Revolution in the first
                    place, history seemed to be repeating itself. In blatant disregard of colonial charter rights, a
                    corrupt imperial government had sought to block western settlement and cultivate Indian clients, the
                    "merciless savages" the ministry proceeded to unleash on defenseless frontiers. As
                    they 
                  
                     53 Stanley Elkins and Eric McKitrick emphasize the connection between
                            Federalist Indian policy in the Northwest and Anglo American diplomatic relations; British
                            evacuation of its forts in the region, according to the terms of the Jay Treaty (1794) was
                            crucial to the pacification of the frontier. See Stanley Elkins and Eric McKitrick, The Age of Federalism (
                                New York
                            , 1993), 436-39.
                  
                     54 The definitive work on this subject is Lance Banning, The Jeffersonian Persuasion: Evolution of a Party Ideology (
                                Ithaca
                            , N.Y., 1978).
                  
                     55 John Taylor, Definition of Parties; or, the Political
                                Effects of the Paper System Considered (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1794), 12. The best study of Taylor's political thought is Robert E. Shalhope,
                                John Taylor of Caroline: Pastoral Republican (
                                Columbia
                            , S.C., 1980). For TJ's appreciation of Taylor's polemical efforts see TJ to
                            James 
                                Madison
                            , September 1, 1793, in Jefferson Papers, XXVII, 8; and TJ to
                                    
                        Madison, Monticello
                     , May 15, 1794, in The Papers of James 
                                Madison
                            , Congressional Series, eds. Robert A. Rutland et al. (17 vols., 
                                Chicago
                             and 
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1959-1991), XV, 333. On Federalist Indian policy in this period see
                            Sheehan, "The Indian problem in the Northwest."
               
                     jettisoned the conquest theory and negotiated new treaties with
                    the tribes, Federalists pursued a similar policy, buttressing the consolidation of power in the
                    central government by promoting the pretensions of native auxiliaries on the new nation's periphery.
                    For Taylor, this arrangement was the very image of imperial corruption and the antithesis of the
                    republican union of equal states that Americans had sought to create in 1776 and perfected through
                    the resolution of the western lands controversy.
            The Federalists had no intention of winning the war in the West. Invoking a favorite theme in
                    Republican rhetoric, Taylor juxtaposed the effectiveness of citizen-soldiers, fighting for their
                    homes and families, with a corrupt and dangerous "standing army." Frontier
                    self-help, a few "incursions of mounted riflemen," and the rapid distribution of
                    the public lands would have cleared the 
                        Ohio
                     country of Indians without any assistance from a "military establishment." But it was in the Federalists' interest to keep the frontiers
                    aflame. "An expensive and unsuccessful war," Taylor wrote, "may cultivate
                    the public mind into a willingness to treat away this territory to the Indians." As a
                    result, the conditions of 
                        Virginia
                    's 1784 land cession, the model for subsequent state cessions, would not be fulfilled.
                    Public lands would not be sold at reasonable prices to industrious settlers, thus helping to
                    discharge the nation's revolutionary debts, nor would frontier settlements be formed into new
                    states, "in faithful compliance with the solemn compacts long since entered into with the
                    ceding states." Scarcely a financial boon, the national domain would instead be a constant
                    drain on the Treasury and a justification for higher taxes. "Nothing is wanting to
                    consummate the system," Taylor concluded, "but a relinquishment of the right of
                    preemption to the Indians, beyond the 
                        Ohio
                    . So that the Indians and British may mount guard over the growth of republicanism in
                    that quarter."56
            
            The shape of things to come could be seen in the western reaches of 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Georgia
                    , where treaties with the Creeks (1790) and Cherokees (1791) recognized Indian property
                    rights within state boundaries as defined by colonial charters. If transactions with the tribes,
                    duly confirmed by the Senate, were to enjoy the exalted status of treaties, there was nothing to
                    stop the administration from "dismembering" the states: "from the power
                    of making treaties, a power of dismembering a state has been deduced and exercised. And a power of
                    dismemberment, is evidently equivalent to a power of annihilation." Indian treaties
                    subverted the union—by encroaching on the states' territorial rights or violating the
                    "solemn compacts" in state land cessions that provided for the creation of new
                    states—and invested the tribes with political and property rights under the law of
                    nations. Before the Revolution, imperial officials had sought to 
                  
                     56 Taylor, Definition of Parties, 4, 12.
               
                     establish "a perpetual boundary" with the
                    Indians that would have given them similar standing as client states under British protection. The
                    Federalists apparently "forget," Taylor concluded, "that a violation of
                    charters, and an endeavour to prevent population, were of late two articles of impeachment against
                    the king of 
                        England
                    ."57
            
            Of course, Taylor well knew, the cunning 
                        Hamilton
                     and his corrupt allies forgot nothing. Taylor's polemics were designed to arouse the
                    great Republican majority from its forgetful slumbers, teaching vigilant voters to see dangerous
                    patterns in apparently disconnected policies: Americans should be prepared to play their patriotic
                    part when a "long train of [Federalist] abuses" finally forced them to reenact the
                    Revolution. Taylor exposed the nefarious initiatives of the "paper junto," the
                    incipient aristocracy of security holders—"the 5000"—who
                    sought to exploit and impoverish the great mass of the people—"the
                    5,000,000." 
                        A paper junto can find an interest in restraining population, even at the expence of the
                            constitution. The danger and difficulty, with which our frontier are extended, invariably
                            engenders an intrepid republican spirit. The enmity of this spirit to an intriguing junto,
                            is so constant, that it is already regarded as a deadly foe. Besides, an aristocracy for
                            ever obstructs mankind in pursuit of competency and happiness, because by compressing them
                            within the locality of their devices, they are more easily brought to the magical mint, and
                            coined into money.58
                  
                     Federalist "aristocrats" promoted a standing army, opposed the formation
                    of new states—potential "recruits for the 5,000,000"—and
                    sought allies among Indian clients whose "rights" they recognized.
            Taylor's denunciation of Federalist Indian policy echoed 
                        Virginia
                    's complaints against the king during the revolutionary crisis. "Instead of
                    encroaching upon the barbarians," the Federalists were encouraging "the barbarians
                    to encroach upon us;… instead of procuring safety," so-called "treaties
                    of peace" proved to be little more than "annual supplies of arms, ammunition and
                    clothing to the enemy;… instead of securing the territories, acquired in a time of
                    comparative weakness and distress," the administration was "surrendering [them] to
                    a despicable banditti."59 These would-be aristocrats had the same
                    antirepublican vision of the West's future that had inspired land speculators before the Revolution:
                    they hoped to acquire "principalities out of the national territory for
                    themselves." To do so, Taylor predicted, "those who call themselves
                    federal" would "league with Indians and foreigners, to remove the land marks of
                    union, and to revoke a fundamental stipulation for the security of independency itself."60
            
            In the short run, Taylor proved a poor prophet. Federalist campaigns in Indian country culminated in
                    treaties that opened up vast 
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 12, 13.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., 13.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., 14.
                  
                     60 John Taylor, An Enquiry into the Principles and
                                Tendency of Certain Public Measures (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1794), 85.
               
                     new territories to settlement while pacifying the tribes.
                    Meanwhile, the administration negotiated treaties that promised the removal of British forts from
                    American territory (the Jay Treaty) and opened the 
                        Mississippi
                     to American commerce (the Treaty of San Lorenzo), ratified in 1795 and 1796
                    respectively. Under these new circumstances, it was no longer clear that the "intrepid
                    republicans" of the new settlements, the chief beneficiaries of these diplomatic successes,
                    would rally behind the Republican opposition. But Taylor's evocation of an aristocratic conspiracy
                    against states' rights and republicanism would leave its imprint on the "Jeffersonian
                    Persuasion," both in the dark days immediately ahead and in the party's triumphant revival
                    in the election of 1800. The lurid details of Taylor's dire predictions about the future of the West
                    were less important than the underlying conception of the union that he drew from Jefferson and his
                    fellow 
                        Virginia
                     patriots.
            Jefferson's vision of republican empire, an empire without a powerful metropolis or an aristocratic
                    ruling class, provided the conceptual framework for Taylor's gloomy scenario of corruption and loss.
                    Growing out of the defense of 
                        Virginia
                    's charter claims, Jefferson's ideas about states' rights and union had always been
                    subject to challenge, whether from the British crown, "merciless Savages," land
                    speculators, or corrupt congressmen; in the 1790s the ascendant Federalists showed how an energetic
                    central government, raising the cry of national security, could so easily subvert federal union and
                    republican liberty. Yet the people came to their senses in the epochal election of 1800,
                    rehabilitating republicanism by routing the aristocratic Federalists.
            The American people had attested to their "federal and republican principles,"
                    Jefferson exulted in his Inaugural Address. The "empire of liberty" would now
                    expand westward, liberated at last from the incubus of aristocracy. "Kindly separated by
                    nature and a wide ocean from the exterminating havoc" of the Old World, Americans happily
                    possessed "a chosen country, with room enough for our descendants to the thousandth and
                    thousandth generation." The Indians who had loomed so large in Taylor's vision of a
                    shrinking West, dismembered by treaties and parceled out in corrupt new
                    "principalities," simply disappeared in Jefferson's optimistic account. But this
                    was precisely the point: however formidable their warriors might be, Indian
                    "nations" were mere shadows, the tools of corrupt European paymasters, incapable
                    of exercising any real power of their own. Without the artificial support of the British Empire or
                    of Federalist administrations, the Indian threat would quickly dissipate. Like Federalist leaders
                    who had been abandoned by enlightened voters, the Indians were suddenly rendered impotent and
                    harmless; like a standing army, deprived of royal patronage, the 'barbarians" could only
                    retreat. They were no match for "the strongest Government on earth… where every
                    man, at the call of the law, would fly to the standard of  the
                    law, and would meet invasions of the public order as his own personal concern."61
            
            Jefferson could afford to ignore the Indians because of the diplomatic and military successes of
                    Federalist administrations, not because voters had finally come to their senses and purged the
                    federal republic of dangerous aristocratic and monarchical tendencies. Americans owed their reprieve
                    from diplomatic and military entanglements to a brief interval in the European wars, not to the
                    irresistible power of citizen-soldiers. But Jefferson struck a responsive chord when he
                    congratulated his fellow Americans on the vast arena open to their enterprise. The absence of
                    Indians in his account was testimonial to a powerful new sense of the new nation's manifest destiny,
                    held in check throughout the 1790s by the ascendancy of aristocratic Federalists.
            Jefferson's vision of continental greatness represented the convergence of two distinct, but
                    interdependent, historical narratives. By redeeming their republican experiment in the
                    "Revolution of 1800," Americans rejoined the story of their revolutionary struggle
                    against British tyranny with the larger story of civilization's westward progress. If the Revolution
                    failed, a possibility that seemed increasingly likely to Republicans during the 1790s'
                    "civilization" necessarily would take a radically different course. Keen students
                    of the new "science of politics," republican theorists recognized that there was a
                    dangerous discrepancy between the progress of civilization generally and the development of
                    enlightened political regimes: aristocratic and monarchical elements constituted archaic survivals
                    in European regimes that jeopardized their stability and prosperity. Through the degradation and
                    enslavement of native peoples, these regimes could extend their sway through the American
                    hemisphere, throttling the natural development of republican institutions.
            In both of Jefferson's stories, converging in the Inaugural Address's triumphant vision of a dynamic
                    and expansive republican empire, Indians played roles that disgraced and dishonored their natural
                    gifts. The only hope for the individual Indians was that they follow the arduous path toward
                    republican civilization; they must abandon political pretensions that made them dependent on corrupt
                    imperial patrons and retarded their moral development. With the war for the West apparently won, the
                    philanthropic Jefferson was prepared to teach his Indian children how they too could become
                    Americans.
            Jefferson did not hate Indians. Instead, he hated their degraded condition under the pernicious
                    influence of America's antirepublican enemies; it was George III, after all, who turned the natives
                    into "merciless Savages." After his inauguration in 1801, the new 
                  
                     61 TJ, First Inaugural Address, March 4, 1801, in Jefferson Writings, Peterson, 494, 493.
               
                     president rarely expressed hostile sentiments toward the
                    Indians. The balance of power now decisively favored the Americans; with European powers no longer
                    offering critical support, dwindling numbers of Indians were no match for the rapidly growing
                    American population. "You see that we are as numerous as the leaves of the trees,"
                    Jefferson told one Indian leader in 1808, "strong enough to fight our own battles, and too
                    strong to fear any enemy."62
            
            The Americans' numerical preponderance was so great that the Indians would never again be able to
                    intervene in the new nation's conflicts with neighboring imperial powers. Toward the end of his
                    second term, when chronic conflict over maritime rights threatened war with 
                        England
                    , Jefferson told the northwestern Indians that though the English were "strong
                    on the water," they were "weak on the land." The Indians should play no
                    role in this looming conflict: "we do not ask you to spill your blood in our
                    quarrels," nor, he added ominously, "do we wish to be forced to spill it with our
                    own hands." His meaning could not be mistaken: "the tribe which shall begin an
                    unprovoked war against us, we will extirpate from the earth, or drive to such a distance as that
                    they shall never again be able to strike us." Jefferson's chilling warning recalled his
                    revolutionary rage against the "savages" and undoubtedly betrayed similar
                    anxieties. But the message's tone was calculated and confident, with professions of friendship
                    balancing threats. Jefferson presented a stark choice to his native "children" so
                    that they would learn an important lesson: Indians must abandon war if they ever hoped for the
                    peace, prosperity, and population growth that would make them a "great nation."63
            
            The British were responsible for chronic warfare in the Northwest, Jefferson told another group of
                    chiefs. "While we were under that government," before independence, "we
                    were constantly kept at war with the red men our neighbors." Then many tribes fought
                    against the 
                        United States
                     in the Revolution, leaving a legacy of "ill blood… after we had
                    made peace with the English," and the English had abandoned their Indian allies;
                    "it was not till the treaty of Greeneville that we could come to a solid peace and perfect
                    good understanding with all our Indian neighbors," he wrote.64
                    According to Jefferson, 
                  
                     62 TJ to Kitchao Geboway, 
                                Washington
                            , February 27, 1808, in Writings of Jefferson, XVI, 425-27. My
                            understanding of "philanthropy" is indebted to Bernard Sheehan, who
                            observes that, ultimately, "hating Indians could not be differentiated from hating
                            Indianness…. Philanthropy had in mind the disappearance of an entire
                            race." See Sheehan, Seeds of Extinction, 277, 278. For a critical
                            account of TJ's Indian policy during his presidency see Hutchins, "Constitution and
                            the Tribes," chapter 6.
                  
                     63 TJ to the Chiefs of the Wyandots, Ottawas, Chippewas,
                            Powtewatamies, and Shawanese, 
                                Washington
                            , January 10, 1809, in Writings of Jefferson, XVI, 462-63; TJ
                            to Captain Hendrick, the Delawares, Mohicans, and Munries, 
                                Washington
                            , December 21, 1808, in ibid., XVI, 453.
                  
                     64 TJ to the Chiefs of the Ottawas, Chippewas, Powtowatamies,
                            Wyandots, and Senecas of Sandusky, 
                                Washington
                            , April 22, 1808, in ibid., XVI, 428.
               
                     wars between Indians and Americans were unnatural; they could
                    only be explained by outside interference. Their British allies and patrons were not the Indians'
                    true friends, for they fomented the chronic conflicts that led directly to the depopulation and
                    demoralization of their communities. "Now, my children," the paternalistic
                    president exhorted, "if we wanted to diminish our numbers, we would give up the culture of
                    the earth, pursue the deer and buffalo, and be always at war; this would soon reduce us to be as few
                    as you are, and if you wish to increase your numbers you must give up the deer and buffalo, live in
                    peace, and cultivate the earth."65
            
            Constant warfare led to a massive sacrifice of Indian peoples, not only of the young warriors wasted
                    in battle, but of future generations as well. Indians need only look across the frontier, to the
                    rising tide of white settlement, to see the future they were forfeiting by holding fast to their
                    savage way of life. "What a brilliant aspect is offered to your future history, if you give
                    up war and hunting," exclaimed Jefferson, and "adopt the culture of the earth and
                    raise domestic animals; you see how from a small family you may become a great nation by adopting
                    the course which from the small beginning you describe has made us a great nation."66 Jefferson invoked two related themes as he urged his native
                    "children" on toward civilization. Only by turning to agriculture would Indians be
                    able to sustain an enduring relation to their country, "the earth which covers the bones of
                    your fathers," and therefore to their own past; only by making farms, by growing instead of
                    wasting children, could they hope for a future.67 The choice lay with the
                    present generation and its leaders: "it depends on yourselves alone to become a numerous
                    and great people." 
                        Nothing is so easy as to learn to cultivate the earth; all your women understand it, and to
                            make it easier, we are always ready to teach you how to make ploughs, hoes, and necessary
                            utensils. If the men will take the labor of the earth from the women they will learn to spin
                            and weave and to clothe their families. In this way you will also raise many children, you
                            will double your numbers every twenty years, and soon fill the land your friends have given
                            you, and your children will never be tempted to sell the spot on which they have been born,
                            raised, have labored and called their own.68
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     65 TJ to Captain Hendrick, the Delawares, Mohicans, and Munries, 
                                Washington
                            , December 21, 1808, in ibid., XVI, 451.
                  
                     66
                            Ibid., XVI, 453. See also TJ to the Chiefs of the Shawanee Nation, 
                                Washington
                            , February 19, 1807, in ibid., XVI, 424: "When the
                            white people first came to this land, they were few, and you were many: now we are many, and
                            you few; and why? because, by cultivating the earth, we produce plenty to raise our
                            children, while yours, during a part of every year, suffer for want of food, are forced to
                            eat unwholesome things, are exposed to the weather in your hunting camps, get diseases and
                            die. Hence it is that your numbers lessen."
                  
                     67 TJ to the Chiefs of the Wyandots, Ottawas, Chippewas,
                            Powtewatamies, and Shawanese, 
                                Washington
                            , January 10, 1809, in ibid., XVI, 463.
                  
                     68 TJ to Captain Hendrick, the Delawares, Mohicans, and Munries, 
                                Washington
                            , December 21, 1808, in ibid., XVI, 452.
               
                    
                    
                  THOMAS JEFFERSON PEACE
                                MEDAL
                  
                  American Numismatic Society, 
                        New
                                York, New York
                     .
               
                     If the Indians rejected Jefferson's advice, they would
                    "disappear from the earth."69 Demographic disaster was the
                    real enemy, not American armies or the legions of white settlers that followed in their wake. And if
                    the Indians should succumb to this enemy, if these refractory "children" should
                    spurn their father's teaching, it would be their own responsibility.
            Jefferson's presidential addresses to the Indians offered a self-righteous justification for an
                    expansionist territorial policy that would set the stage, within less than two generations, for
                    Jackson's removal policy. The inexorable progress of civilization absolved Americans of agency or
                    moral responsibility for the displacement of indigenous peoples; in stark contrast, the Indians did
                    face choices and were responsible for their own fate. Professing solicitude for the welfare of his
                    red children, the white father could offer them little protection from the expansion of settlements
                    and the penetration of market forces. Jefferson argued that Indian peoples could only benefit by
                    submitting to the discipline of the market, paying their debts to merchant creditors, and exchanging
                    portions of their vast land reserves for the capital needed to make farms. White settlers' land
                    hunger thus was not a threat but a resource Indians should exploit: "Our people multiply so
                    fast that it will suit us to buy as much as you wish to sell," Jefferson told the Chickasaw
                    chiefs in 1805, and "if at this time you think it will be better for you to dispose of some
                    of them to pay your debts, and to help your people to improve the rest, we are willing to buy on
                    reasonable terms."70
            
            The self-serving logic of the addresses provided the ideological rationale for an expansive
                    republican empire. But Jefferson did not consciously seek to deceive or defraud his native charges,
                    and if he was manipulative in his dealings with them, he was equally so with his own children.71 Everything he said in his messages to the Indians 
                  
                     69 TJ to the Chiefs of the Ottawas, Chippewas, Powtowatamies,
                            Wyandots, and Senecas of Sandusky, 
                                Washington
                            , April 22, 1808, in ibid., XVI, 429.
                  
                     70 TJ to My Children, Chiefs of the Chickasaw Nation, Mingkey, Mataha,
                            and Tishohanta, 
                                Washington
                            , March 7, 1805, in ibid., XVI, 411-12. See also TJ to the
                            Chiefs of the Ottawas, Chippewas, Powtowatamies, Wyandots, and Senecas of Sandusky, 
                                Washington
                            , April 22, 1808, in ibid., XVI, 429: "Whenever you
                            find it your interest to dispose of a part to enable you to improve the rest, and to support
                            your families in the meantime, we are willing to buy, because our people increase
                            fast."
                  
                     71 TJ sought to accelerate the liquidation of Indians' property rights
                            by promoting their indebtedness. See TJ to Governor William H. Harrison, 
                                Washington
                            , February 27,1803, in ibid., X, 370: "when these
                            debts get beyond what individuals can pay, they become willing to lop them off by a cession
                            of lands;… they will in time either incorporate with us as citizens of the 
                                United States
                            , or remove beyond the 
                                Mississippi
                            ." Modern commentators understandably find this strategy abhorrent.
                            (Hutchins charges that "Jefferson advocated debt ensnarement, to place the Creeks
                            under the exploitative control of the U.S. government." Hutchins,
                            "Constitution and the Tribes," chapter 6.) But TJ's Indian messages did
                            not disguise the mechanism at work, nor could he escape the discipline of debt in his own
                            private life and public career. On the issue of debt see Herbert E. Sloan, Principle and Interest: Thomas Jefferson and the Problem of Debt (
                                New York
                            , 1995); on Jefferson as manipulator see Jan Lewis,
               
                     was meant for their own good: by giving up land they could not
                    use, they might improve and secure the remaining land. Becoming good husbands, Indian men would reap
                    bountiful harvests and father many children; learning to live under laws of their own making, Indian
                    communities would become true republics, ultimately merging with white Americans in a single
                    "great nation." If all of these adaptations to republican civilization served the
                    interests of land-hungry white farmers, this was only as it should be in a peaceful and harmonious
                    union of peoples. After all, Jefferson insisted, the assumption of a natural enmity between Indians
                    and white settlers was false, an ugly image from the old regime fostered by generations of imperial
                    warfare and diplomacy. The New World, purged of the Old World corruption that had fostered Indian
                    savagery, presented a different picture. If they did not disappear from view altogether, the Indians
                    would be a part of this picture. This was Jefferson's promise to Captain Hendrick, the Indian
                    leader, in December, 1808: "unite yourselves with us, join in our Great Councils and form
                    one people with us, and we shall all be Americans; you will mix with us by marriage, your blood will
                    run in our veins, and will spread with us over this great island."72
            
            Jefferson knew that the choice would be difficult. "Are you prepared for this?" he
                    asked the Upper Cherokees when they sought assistance in civilizing themselves, and "have
                    you the resolution to leave off hunting for your living, to lay off a farm for each family to
                    itself, to live by industry, the men working that farm with their hands, raising stock, or learning
                    trades as we do, and the women spinning and weaving clothes for their husbands and
                        children?"73 For Jefferson the choice itself, not federal
                    patronage, was crucial. The real American Revolution would come to Indian country when Indian men
                    renounced their "aristocratic" prerogatives, elevated women to their naturally
                    equal position, and provided for the welfare of future generations. The first challenge was to have
                    children at all: Indian men should know that their "savage" way of life was a form
                    of generational murder against unborn children, a criminal waste of the male potency and female
                    fertility Jefferson celebrated in his Notes.
            
            
               "'The Blessings of Domestic Society': Thomas Jefferson's Family and the
                        Transformation of American Politics," in Jeffersonian Legacies, ed.
                        Peter S. Onuf (
                            Charlottesville
                        , Va., 1993), 109-46.
               
                  72 TJ to Captain Hendrick, the Delawares, Mohicans, and Munries, 
                            Washington
                        , December 21,1808, in Writings of Jefferson, XVI, 452. TJ made
                        the same suggestion to the Cherokee in 1803, through Benjamin Hawkins, the 
                            United States
                         agent: "in truth, the ultimate point of rest and happiness for them is to
                        let our settlements and theirs meet and blend together, to intermix, and become one
                        people." TJ to Benjamin Hawkins, 
                            Washington
                        , February 18, 1803, in ibid., X, 363.
               
                  73 TJ to the Chiefs of the Upper Cherokees, 
                            Washington
                        , May 4, 1808, in ibid., XVI, 434. For the context of this message
                        see William G. McCloughlin, "Thomas Jefferson and the Beginning of Cherokee
                        Nationalism, 1806 to 1809," William and Mary Quarterly, 3rd series,
                        XXXII (October, 1975), 564-65.
            
            
            
               TITLE PAGE OF THE
                        NOTES ON THE STATE OF VIRGINIA
                  
               
               Courtesy, The Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            
               TABLE OF CONTENTS IN THE
                        NOTES ON THE STATE OF VIRGINIA
                  
               
               Courtesy, The Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            Jefferson's addresses to the Indians revealed powerful emotions. Far from cynical productions of a
                    manipulative diplomacy, these addresses were heartfelt testimonials to the principles on which, he
                    believed, the new American regime was founded. As they asserted their rights and declared their
                    independence, Americans acted as moral agents, following the precepts of natural law. The Revolution
                    was lawful, not licentious; republicanism represented the high achievement of a civilized people,
                    not a regression to savagery. Jefferson and his fellow patriots provided the freedom and prosperity
                    for future generations by liberating a great continent from monarchy and aristocracy. This great
                    boon, "our country," required great sacrifices in years of bloody warfare. Indians
                    who would share in this magnificent legacy had to change themselves into civilized republicans and
                    good Americans. Their arduous progress, recapitulating the progress of civilization itself, must
                    begin at home.
            Jefferson's sentimental republicanism also began at home, in the idealized domesticity constituted by
                    consensual conjugal union. In his most extravagantly optimistic moments he could envision unions of
                    unions, spreading circle upon circle, layer upon layer, until the whole enlightened world was
                    transformed and redeemed. This republican millennium would be both the culminating moment in the
                    progress of world history and a return to the wholeness and perfection of the family circle. The
                    same pattern of thought can be traced through Jefferson's Indian addresses. When he imagined the
                    reconciliation of the races, the merging of nations into "one people," the old
                    language of Indian diplomacy took on new life for him: Jefferson was no longer a
                    "father" by courtesy or convention, nor were the Indians
                    "children" who would opportunistically adopt and dispose of
                    "fathers" as the balance of forces in Indian country changed. Instead, Jefferson
                    foresaw white Americans and their "red brethren" forming a single great family,
                    connected by the most intimate ties of consanguinity. For the Indians this merging of the races
                    would be at once a moment of their restoration—"peace and agriculture will raise
                    you up to be what your forefathers were"—and their rebirth as Americans. Once
                    "you… possess property" and "live under regular
                    laws," Jefferson said to the Indians, "[you will be prepared] to join us in our
                    government, to mix with us in society, and your blood and ours united will spread over the great
                        island."74
            
            In becoming Americans the Indians would regain the continent that their forefathers had recklessly
                    forfeited. Through this same process, the new nation's title to its imperial domain would become
                    perfect: any lingering misgivings about the Americans' claims to their country would be allayed.
                    When, for instance, Jefferson told the Mandan that "we consider ourselves
                    no longer of the old nations 
                  
                     74 TJ to the Miamis, Powtewatamies, Delawares, and Chippeways, 
                                Washington
                            , December 21, 1808, in Writings of Jefferson, XVI,
                        439.
               
                     beyond the great water, but as united in one family with our
                    red brethren here," or declared to the Osage that "it is so long since our
                    forefathers came from beyond the great water, that we have lost the memory of it, and seem to have grown out of this land, as you have done," he acknowledged that
                    native peoples had a prior, and in some sense more legitimate, claim to the land.75 But as the two peoples merged into one, their common patrimony would be a bond of union,
                    not a source of strife.
            It is tempting to dismiss Jefferson's vision of interracial nationhood. Invoking his own experience
                    and observation of Indian culture and politics, he emphasized the formidable obstacles to its
                    fulfillment in his Indian addresses. Perhaps Jefferson was simply setting the stage for experiments
                    that he knew were bound to fail; he was full of "commiseration" for the Indians
                    but free of any sense of moral responsibility. Yet Jefferson's Indian addresses did speak powerfully
                    to some of the central concerns of his public career and private life. How could the Americans
                    justify their claim to being a distinct people? By what right did they claim the continent as their
                    own? How did native peoples figure in his understanding of the American Revolution? What place could
                    these people claim for themselves in the new republican empire?
            Jefferson never betrayed feelings of guilt about the fate of the Indians. He was more likely to be
                    righteously enraged at their savagery or, in times of peace, philosophically resigned to their
                    cultural resistance. But running through all of his responses was a sense of personal
                    identification, the "attachment and commiseration" evoked by childhood memories
                    that were still vivid in his old age. Perhaps, reasonable men would be inclined to agree, the
                    Indians were doomed to "disappear from the earth." The wish for a different fate
                    for the Indians, the fantasy of a "great island redeemed from European corruption and the
                    savagery it fostered, and nostalgia for lost childhood innocence—all were palpable in
                    Jefferson's romantic image of the millennial moment when, he told the Indians, "your blood
                    will mix with ours" and a truly new nation would emerge.
            
               
                  75 TJ to the Wolf and People of the Mandan Nation, 
                            Washington
                        , December 30, 1806, in Jefferson Writings, Peterson, 564; TJ to
                        My Children, White-hairs, Chiefs, and Warriors of the Osage Nation, 
                            Washington
                        , July 16, 1804, in Writings of Jefferson, XVI, 406.
            
         
         
         
            "In perfect accordance with his character": Thomas Jefferson, Slavery, and the
                    Law
            
                    Mark D. McGarvie
                    ∗
                
            Few issues in American history remain as troubling as Thomas Jefferson's toleration of slavery, so
                    clearly inconsistent with his own expressions of man's natural rights. Not only the cruelty but also
                    the manifest injustice of slaveholding detracts from Jefferson's reputation. The terrible irony of
                    his public life was that the very principles he advocated for the design of the new
                    nation—a commitment to majority rule, limited government, the authority of law, and the
                    protection of property right—restrained him in attacking the institution that he knew
                    threatened the American republic. This is not to say, as some have argued, that republican ideology
                    embraced slavery, but that Jefferson's conception of its implementation in the new nation's
                    political and legal institutions precluded aggressive governmental action to emancipate the slaves.
                    Jefferson accepted the "form" of republican government as the only means of
                    securing man's political liberty. This governmental form included a commitment to the rule of law as
                    the basis of both social organization and change.
            Jefferson's belief in the importance of form, evident in his architectural and musical preferences,
                    and even in his personal relationships, is less obvious in his commitment to law as the means of
                    social governance. In this commitment he epitomizes the Enlightenment modernist's acceptance of form
                    as liberalizing. In the same way that the symmetry of Mozart's compositions or the American
                    adaptation of classical columns or friezes reflected the limits upon man's reason posed by taste and
                    judgment, the founding father's dependence upon law reflected a recognition of liberty restrained by
                    the need for social order. Only when the parameters of taste, judgment, order, or virtue were
                    accepted could man truly be free to pursue the limits of his reason. In this way law restrained the
                    policy initiatives that could legitimately be pursued to achieve social goals. As Richard Posner
                    writes, "Systems of thought that emphasize hierarchy, tradition, authority, and precedent
                    disvalue the kind of critical inquiry that tests belief and advances knowledge, and as a result, the
                    truths that 
                  
                     ∗ Mark D. McGarvie is a Ph.D. candidate in history at
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . Beginning in August, he will be the Hodgson Russ Fellow at the Baldy Center
                            for Law and Interdisciplinary Studies and instructor of law, SUNY-Buffalo School of Law, 
                                New York
                            .
               
                     such systems accept are not robust."1 Jefferson's actions on slavery must be understood in this context.
            Jefferson, perhaps more than any of the founding fathers, has had his political motivations, economic
                    status, psychological composition, and personal relationships explored in attempts to explain how
                    the author of the Declaration of Independence could hold slaves. Jefferson's own musings on slavery
                    have been portrayed as rationalizations for his tolerance of the institution. The recent
                    Jeffersonian historiography emphasizes social, economic, and psychological factors, arguing that
                    Jefferson's true motivations were political self-interest, greed, or racism.2 In
                    embracing social concerns as the sole 
                  
                     1 Richard A. Posner, The Problem of Jurisprudence (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1990), 8.
                  
                            
                        2 The literature on Jefferson is consistent with a larger body of
                                work on slavery in general, which subordinates ideology to social factors. Gary Nash
                                contends that southern colonists overcame "restraining ideologies" to
                                "develop a labor process unknown in 
                                    England
                                ," and thereafter "articulated an ideology of racial
                                paternalism to justify and support it." Gary Nash, "Social
                                Developments," in Colonial British America: Essays in the New
                                    History of the Early Modern Era, eds. Jack P. Greene and J. R. Pole (
                                    Baltimore
                                , 1984), 233-61. Edmund Morgan asserts that white southern society overcame
                                gross disparities in wealth that threatened republicanism by subordinating dark-skinned
                                peoples to an underclass, thereby constructing a social equality among the white
                                population upon which participatory government could be premised. Edmund S. Morgan,
                                American Slavery, American Freedom: The Ordeal of Colonial 
                                        Virginia
                                    
                         (
                                    New York
                                , 1975), 363-87. David Brion Davis adds that southern planters found a
                                rationalization for slavery consistent with the paternalistic role that they played in
                                society. The moral obligation of free persons to care for those who could not care for
                                themselves reinforced the holding of slaves as it did the obligation of public service.
                                David Brion Davis, The Problem of Slavery in the Age of Revolution,
                                    1770-1823 (
                                    Ithaca
                                , N.Y., 1975), 212. Winthrop D. Jordan explains that slaveholders justified
                                their actions through the creation of an image of black men and women as evil and
                                oversexed heathens. Racial differences required the exclusion of blacks from education,
                                religious practice, property ownership, and other accoutrements of freedom. Society
                                could then reject them for their cultural failings after denying them the opportunity to
                                become acculturated. Winthrop D. Jordan, White Over Black: American
                                    Attitudes Toward the Negro, 1550-1812 (
                                    New York
                                , 1968).
                            According to Davis, "Jefferson had only a theoretical interest in promoting the
                                cause of abolition." Davis attributes Jefferson's position to his political
                                aspirations and his being imbued with the cultural values and beliefs of his society.
                                Abolition had subversive implications, and therefore "it was not accidental
                                that [it was] virtually ignored by Jefferson and the other political leaders who
                                professed an abhorrence of slavery." Davis, The Problem of
                                slavery, 172. Erik H. Erikson's study of Jefferson uses the man as an example of
                                the thought processes of southern slaveholders. Erikson asserts that a lower class was
                                necessary to provide the "negative identity" as a counterpoint to the
                                role to be played by the natural aristocracy. The recognition of people in need of
                                paternal care by their social betters at once legitimized aristocratic involvement in a
                                democratic government and the perpetuation of institutionalized inequality. Erik H.
                                Erikson, Dimensions of a New Identity: The 1973 Jefferson Lectures in the
                                    Humanities (
                                    New York
                                , 1974), 20, 36, 71. Paul Finkelman concludes that Jefferson did little, if
                                anything, to further the case of abolition. Social considerations as reflected in
                                reputation and lifestyle were paramount. Finkelman finds his subject "more
                                concerned with avoiding irritation [or personal controversy] than he was in promoting
                                emancipation… Jefferson could not maintain his extravagant lifestyle without
                                his slaves and, to judge from his lifelong behavior, his grand style was far more
                                important than the natural rights of his slaves." Paul Finkelman,
                                "Jefferson and Slavery: Treason Against the Hopes of the World," in
                                    Jeffersonian Legacies, ed. Peter S. Onuf (
                                    Charlottesville
                                , Va., 1993), 183. Don Fehrenbacher reads Query XIV in Jefferson's Notes on the State of 
                                    Virginia
                                 as evidence of both the man's racial prejudice and fears. Yet he does not
                                attribute Jefferson's inaction on slavery solely to racism, finding political
                                self-interest as party leader and southerner to limit Jefferson's political options. Don
                                E. Fehrenbacher, Slavery, Law and Politics: The Dred Scott Case in
                                    Historical Perspective (
                                    New York
                                , 1981), 46-47. Even recent historians who are more sympathetic to Jefferson
                                have focused attention away from ideology in attempting to understand their subject's
                                tolerance of slavery. Psychological or social considerations, politics, and economics
                                are used to explain Jefferson's reticence on this issue. Merrill Peterson writes that
                                "neither he nor any other prominent Virginian was ever willing to risk friends,
                                position, and influence to fight for it." Merrill D. Peterson, Thomas Jefferson and the New Nation (
                                    New York
                                , 1970), 153. Jack 
                                    Greene
                                 found Jefferson to be restrained in his approach to abolish slavery by
                                overriding doubts that differences in color, culture, and possibly intellectual ability
                                precluded freed slaves from ever "achieving full civic competence or being
                                satisfactorily incorporated into the polity as a whole." Jack P. Greene,
                                "The Intellectual Reconstruction of 
                                    Virginia
                                 in the Age of Jefferson," in Jeffersonian
                                Legacies, ed. Peter S. Onuf (
                                    Charlottesville
                                ,
                        
               
                     determinants of historical action, modern scholars have lost
                    something in historical understanding. As Joyce Appleby observes, the post-1960s maxim of historians
                    and social scientists that "cultural influences are manifest in all intellectual
                    activity" has created "new models [that] have structured the historian's
                        imagination."3 This artificial structure has often obscured
                    historical truth.4
            
            
               Va., 1993), 229, 244. William Freehling describes Jefferson's antislavery as an
                        "antiblack conservatism," conditional, and racist. William W. Freehling, The Reintegration of American History: Slavery and the Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1994), 121. This book includes a revision of Freehling's article, "The
                        Founding Fathers and Slavery," American Historical Review, LXXVII
                        (February, 1972), 81-93. Freehling's revision is more critical of Jefferson and the founding
                        fathers but still acknowledges their good intentions. "If men were evaluated in terms
                        of dreams rather than deeds," he observes, "everyone would concede the
                        antislavery credentials of the Founding Fathers." The founding fathers desired to
                        abolish slavery but were restrained in doing so both by radical sentiments and social-political
                        concerns. "The master passion of the age," Freehling writes, "was not
                        with extending liberty to blacks but with erecting republics for whites," but he does
                        not explain how the pursuit of the latter precluded the former. Most significantly, Freehling,
                        like Fehrenbacher, recognizes the founder's philosophical commitment to property rights as at
                        least equal to the rights of the slaves to liberty. Freehling, "Founding
                        Fathers," 83. Donald Robinson finds the revolutionary era and early republic were
                        periods of great paradox, as America embraced liberty, political equality, and slavery. He too
                        argues that political, economic, and social exigencies prevented the founders from addressing
                        slavery in the early days of the new nation. Yet Jefferson, Robinson says, was "the
                        only political leader of consequence in Revolutionary America who moved openly against Negro
                        slavery." Robinson reads Query XIV less as a racist diatribe than as a sincere, yet
                        embarrassingly inadequate and erroneous, examination of "the best available evidence of
                        natural science" on racial differences. Donald L. Robinson, Slavery in the
                            Structure of American Politics, 1765-1820 (
                            New York
                        , 1971), 80-97. It certainly was not the only time Jefferson was wrong in his
                        conclusions drawn from natural science—the megalonyx debate and his inability to
                        explain the presence of seashells in the soil of 
                            Monticello
                         were other examples. Dumas Malone, Jefferson and the Ordeal of
                            Liberty: Vol. III, Jefferson and His Time (
                            Boston
                        , 1962), 314-45.
               
                  3 Joyce Appleby, "Value and Society," in Colonial British America, 
                            Greene
                         and Pole, 292, 298.
               
                  4 Defining culture as "common ideation" and society as
                        "behavioral interdependence," Robert Berkhofer writes, "The less the
                        coincidence between a culture and society, the less the construction of that culture will tell
                        the analyst about that society." Robert K. Berkhofer, Jr., A Behavioral
                            Approach to Historical Analysis (
                            New York
                        , 1969), 167. Certainly for Jefferson's generation, culture and society did not
                        constitute radically different conceptions.
            
            
            Joseph Ellis has commented on the relevance of "ideology" to Jefferson, noting that
                    he "harbored a set of attractive ideals… that he mistakenly believed could be
                    implemented in this world merely because they existed in his head."5
                    Focusing on ideology as a determinant of behavior broaches the issue: given this set of beliefs,
                    what could the historical actor have been expected to do with regard to a certain issue? Examining
                    Jefferson's toleration of slavery from this perspective may not provide the sole explanation for his
                    seemingly inconsistent position, but it will provide a necessary piece in the attempt to understand
                    and reconstruct this complex historical puzzle.
            Studying Jefferson's approach to slavery from an ideological perspective helps to explain his refusal
                    to work more aggressively for abolition. Jefferson believed that his ideological position inhibited
                    greater action. Because the idea of a social contract involved compromise, the sacrifice of some
                    natural rights was necessary in order to secure others in a societal context. Jefferson's conception
                    of American democracy required that all citizens subordinate themselves to the rule of law. As
                    American law came to embody the values and goals of republicanism, it too served to restrain those
                    who sought to use institutional authority to abolish slavery.
            Jefferson believed in the necessity of a government of laws secured by the Constitution. The law
                    ensured that social policy and change would derive from the expressed wishes of the public by
                    denying the governing elite, however enlightened and wise, the power to dictate policy to the
                    nation. The people should make the laws; likewise, reform in them must result from expressed public
                    opinion. Jefferson wrote that the only way to accomplish the legitimate objects of power was to
                    institute "government by the people, acting not in person but by representatives chosen by
                    themselves—that is to say, by every man of ripe years and sane mind who either
                    contributes with his purse or person to the support of his country."6
            
            In the prelude to his second draft of 
                        Virginia
                    's constitution, Jefferson premised the authority to write the social contract on the
                    popular election of delegates selected for that purpose.7 In his Notes on the State of 
                            Virginia
                        
                (1785) he criticized the adopted constitution, asserting that the majority of
                    men who paid for and defended the state were not represented.8 He wrote,
                    "I am not among those who fear 
                  
                     5 Joseph J. Ellis, American Sphinx: The Character of
                                Thorn Jefferson (
                                New York
                            , 1997), 246.
                  
                     6 Thomas Jefferson (cited hereafter as TJ) to Adamantios Coray,
                            October 31, 1823, in The Writings of Thomas Jefferson (cited hereafter as
                            Jefferson Writings), eds. Andrew A. Lipscomb and Albert Ellery Bergh (20 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1903-1904), XV, 480.
                  
                     7 TJ, "Draft of a Fundamental Constitution for the
                            Commonwealth of 
                                Virginia
                            , 1783," in The Political Writings of Thomas
                            Jefferson, ed. Edward Dumbauld (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1955), 109.
                  
                     8 TJ, Query VIII, Notes on the State of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                     , in Jefferson Writings, II, 160.
               
                     the people. They… are our dependence for continued
                        freedom."9 In the same letter he stated that the people should
                    regularly exercise their will to amend the constitution.10 In this ideological
                    framework the men who shaped and applied the law were compelled to do so in accordance with the
                    wishes of the public.11 The popular will, once expressed, created the law in
                    accordance with which all in the society were to live.
            Despite Jefferson's confidence in the people, he was nonetheless frustrated at times by the
                    impediment to social progress posed by the popular will. Early in his first term as president, he
                    complained, "how difficult it is to move or inflect the great machine of society, how
                    impossible to advance the notions of a whole people suddenly to ideal right."12 However, instead of encouraging him to vest more authority in government, this
                    realization compelled Jefferson to put greater emphasis on education. "I know of no safe
                    depository of the ultimate powers of the society but the people themselves," he wrote,
                    "and if we think them not enlightened enough to exercise their control with a wholesome
                    discretion, the remedy is not to take it from them but to inform their discretion by
                        education."13 If at times popular will frustrated a desired policy,
                    then education, not tyranny, was the preferred solution. "Laws and institutions,"
                    Jefferson thought, '(must go hand in hand with the progress of the human rnind."14
            
            Law could represent the best in man. It could limit the evils that resulted when men, unrestrained by
                    law, exercised their passions, greed, and pettiness in economic or political dominion over others.
                    It could at once serve to ennoble men in their pursuit of virtue while it restrained them in their
                    exercise of selfishness. This two-pronged focus of law as empowering man in the creation of civil
                    society while restraining him in the exercise of his baser instincts is key to understanding how
                    Jefferson's ideology compelled a temporary acceptance of slavery. For it is precisely the need for
                    law to restrain the passions of those without virtue that created a system of laws that could also
                    restrain the most farsighted from effecting major social change. Jefferson's reliance on the rule of
                    law to address society's problems precluded radical solutions inconsistent with existing substantive
                    law. 
                  
                     9 TJ to Samuel Kercheval, July 12, 1816, in ibid.,
                            XV, 32.
                  
                            10
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     11 "We say with truth and meaning," Jefferson
                            observed, "that governments are more or less republican as they have more or less
                            of the element of popular election and control in their composition; and believing as I do
                            that the mass of the citizens is the safest depository of their own rights, and especially
                            that the evils flowing from the duperies of the people are less injurious than those from
                            the egoism of their agents, I am a friend to that composition of government which has in it
                            the most of this ingredient." ibid.
                  
                  
                     12 TJ to Walter Jones, March 31, 1801, in Jefferson
                                Writings, X, 256.
                  
                     13 TJ to William C. Jarvis, September 28, 1820, in ibid., XV, 276.
                  
                     14 Quoted in Merrill D. Peterson, "Afterward," in
                                Jeffersonian Legacies, Onuf, 462.
               
                     This reliance was derived from a political ideology that was
                    shaped by Enlightenment thought, influenced by legal training and practice, and reinforced by
                    Jefferson's own rationality and dogmatism. Jefferson's adherence to established legal means to
                    address social issues can be seen as a commitment to form over substance that blinded him to the
                    intellectual inconsistency of even the temporary toleration of slavery in a republic committed to
                    human liberty.
            The Enlightenment world view, the context of Jefferson's political ideology, rested on the belief of
                    an ordered universe. Man's nature was a given truth, represented in the inherent proclivities and
                    rights that defined his essence. Winthrop 
                        Jordan
                     describes the Enlightenment perception of man's rights as absolute: "to know
                    whether certain men possessed natural rights, one had only to inquire whether they were human
                        beings."15 Writing later in life of his peers and himself at the
                    time of the Revolution, Jefferson stated, "We believed… that man was a rational
                    animal, endowed by nature with rights and an innate sense of justice."16 To Jefferson the right to be free to pursue one's own happiness was inherent in human
                    nature. Yet, as human beings existed in a society formed by law, their rights were given meaning
                    only through legal expression. As David Thomas Konig notes, a political contract was necessary to
                    allow humanity to exercise its natural rights, albeit with restrictions necessitated by consent to
                    the rule of law.17
            
            Popular thought in revolutionary America may have associated natural law and natural rights with
                    man-made law under the premise that "what is right is therefore what is the law."
                    Leaders in the law at the time, such as Jefferson, "were seldom, if ever guilty of
                    confusing natural right with law."18 Natural law was evident only in
                    the actions, morals, and attitudes of man. In Jefferson's words:
            
                    Questions of natural right are triable by their conformity with the moral sense and reason of
                        man. Those who write treatises of natural law, can only declare what their own moral sense and
                        reason dictate in the several cases they state. Each of them as happen to have feelings and a
                        reason coincident with those of the wise and honest part of mankind, are respected and quoted as
                        witnesses of what is morally right or wrong in particular cases.19
               
                
            Theoretically natural law imposed limits on the legitimate exercise of governmental authority.
                    Statutes were required to conform 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Jordan
                            , White Over Black, 431.
                  
                     16 TJ to William Johnson, June 12, 1823, in Jefferson
                                Writings, XV, 439.
                  
                     17 David Thomas Konig, "Jurisprudence and Social Policy in
                            the New Republic," in Devising Liberty: Creating and Preserving
                                Freedom in the New American Republic, ed. R. W. Davis (
                                Stanford
                            , Calif., 1995), 184.
                  
                     18 Robert M. Cover, Justice Accused: Antislavery and the
                                Judicial Process (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1975), 27.
                  
                     19 TJ, "Opinion on the question whether the 
                                United States
                             have a right to renounce their treaties with 
                                France
                            , or to hold them suspended till the government of that country shall be
                            established," April 28, 1793, in Jefferson Writings, III, 226-47,
                            235.
               
                     to the broad principles of natural law. In examining the
                    relevance of natural law to the slavery debate in the late eighteenth century, Robert Cover finds
                    that natural law ideas were used to judge slavery intolerable in the fifteen to twenty-five years
                    after the Revolution. During this time slavery was abolished in the North and seriously debated in
                    the South. Yet, natural law merely provided principles against which slavery was measured. It was
                    still subordinate to law made by man in constitutions, statutes, and case law precedent. According
                    to Cover, the use of natural law in the slavery debate recognized the gap between law as it was and
                    as it should be.20
            
            Thus an unwritten natural law, in the presence of contradictory man-made law, had little legal
                    relevance outside the realm of theory.21 Konig notes that by the late 1700s
                    natural law "had little or no practical force in American jurisprudence."22 Natural law reflected the natural rights of slaves to liberty and political
                    equality. To deny these rights in the late eighteenth century was a moral wrong, but to assert them
                    was to contravene positive man-made law. Moreover, that same man—made law also recognized
                    the rights of people—the slaveholders-and established protections for them.
            The distinction between natural law and a separate body of law governing man in the polity is best
                    seen in the perceived necessity, amounting to what one commentator described as a
                    "compulsive mania," for constitutions.23 Constitutions
                    recognized the need to form a body of laws to govern a civil society. While natural law embodied
                    eternal truths in the theoretical realm of the state of nature, positive law governed man's social
                    interactions in the polity, in which liberty was restrained by social duty. No society ever existed,
                    nor ever could exist, in which all of one's natural liberties were freely exercised.
            
               
                  20 Cover, Justice Accused, 33-35.
               
                  21 An example of how natural law offered only theoretical guidance is
                        presented by Cover in contrasting St. George Tucker's role as professor of law at William and
                        Mary with his subsequent duties as judge. As a professor, Tucker once sent an essay to the 
                            Virginia
                         legislature pleading for the emancipation of slaves as inconsistent with the
                        natural right of freedom. Ten years later, while seated on the 
                            Virginia
                         Supreme Court in review of George Wythe's decision in Hudgins v.
                            Wright, he was unwilling to apply natural law or even to consider positive law so as to
                        recognize an implicit incorporation of natural rights. Tucker reversed Wythe, who found that the
                        "free and equal" clause in the 
                            Virginia
                         constitution made all men in the state presumptively free. Wythe asserted a
                        specific positive law was necessary to overcome the presumption. Tucker refuted Wythe's argument
                        as inconsistent with the intent of the drafters, regardless of its compliance with natural law.
                        Cover adds that "by the late eighteenth century, natural law had been rejected as
                        lacking relevance and meaning, as a basis of social policy through law." Ibid., 37-40, 50-55, 25.
               
                  22 Konig, "Jurisprudence and Social Policy in the New
                        Republic."
               
                  23 Cover, Justice Accused, 27. More recently Jack Rakove noted the
                        difficulty Jefferson had in reconciling "natural rights with the legal protection of
                        those rights." Constitutions were an attempt to restrict the legislature's ability to
                        infringe upon natural rights. Jack N. Rakove, Original Meanings: Politics and Ideas in the
                        Making of the Constitution (
                            New York
                        , 1997), 312-13.
            
            
            Jefferson recognized the same principle in asserting that social duties corresponding to the
                    preservation of rights arose naturally in civil society.24 In his commonplace
                    book he transcribed the following quotation from Lord Kames: "The perfection of human
                    society consists in that just degree of union among individuals, which to each reserves freedom and
                    independency, as far as is consistent with place and order."25
                    Jefferson believed that social duties included the subordination of one's own political will to the
                    will of the majority and the acceptance of the rule of law governing one's actions. "Every
                    man, and every body of men on earth, possesses the right of self government," Jefferson
                    wrote in 1790 in a "Cabinet Opinion." "They receive it with their being
                    from the hand of nature. Individuals exercise it by their single will—collections of men
                    by that of their majority; for the law of the majority is the natural law of every society of
                        men."26 He expressed the same idea in his correspondence to 
                        Washington
                    . "I consider the source of authority with us to be the nation. Their will,
                    declared through its proper organ, is valid till revoked by their will declared through its proper
                    organ again also."27 To Jefferson, law was both an expression of the
                    majority's will and a limitation on the exercise of personal liberties to be accepted by all members
                    of the society, even those dissenting. "The first principle of republicanism," he
                    wrote, "is that the lex majoris partis is the fundamental law of every
                    society of individuals of equal rights; to consider the will of the society enounced [sic] by the majority of a single vote as sacred as if unanimous is the first of all
                    lessons in importance, yet the last which is thoroughly learnt."28
            
            Ideally, man's moral sense would express itself in majority rule to conform society's laws to natural
                    law. Yet Jefferson realized that the creation of a civil society held no short-term guarantee of the
                    fulfillment of this ideal. Rather than causing him to abandon his reliance on law, this realization
                    only reinforced the need for law to exercise a restraining influence.29
            
            
               
                  24 TJ to Francis W. Gilmer, June 7, 1816, in Jefferson
                            Writings, XV, 23. While denying the diminution of any of man's natural rights through
                        participation in a civil society, Jefferson accepted the limitation of those rights by
                        corresponding natural duties.
               
                  25 TJ quoted in The Commonplace Book of Thomas Jefferson, a
                            Repertory of His Ideas on Government, ed. Gilbert Chinard (
                            Baltimore
                        , 1926), 107-108.
               
                  26 TJ, "Cabinet Opinion," July 15, 1790, in The Papers of Thomas Jefferson (cited hereafter as Jefferson Papers), ed. Julian P.
                        Boyd et al. (27 vols. to date, 
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1950-), XVII, 195.
               
                  27 TJ to George 
                            Washington
                        , February 4, 1792, in Jefferson Papers, XXIII, 100.
               
                  28 TJ to Alexander Humboldt, June 13, 1817, in Jefferson
                            Writings, XV, 126.
               
                  29 James 
                            Madison
                         similarly believed that, because in a republic the powers of the government were
                        subjected to the will of the majority, danger to the social interest emanated from the majority
                        using law to pursue its own interests at the expense of minority rights. James 
                            Madison
                         to TJ, October, 1788, in The Papers of James 
                                Madison
                            
                  , Congressional Series, eds. Robert A. Rutland et al. (17
                        vols., 
                            Chicago
                         and Char-lottesville, Va., 1959-1991), XI, 297-98.
            
            
            Jefferson's fear of state power tempered his conviction that members of a civil society granted some
                    of their natural liberties to the state in order to secure protection for the rest.30 Governments were to do no more than use their limited powers to allow the exercise of
                    liberty in a social environment. The aggrandizement of the state, either by exercising more power
                    than was necessary for this task or by interference in matters not properly contained within its
                    legitimate scope of authority, Jefferson deemed tyranny. The exercise of liberty within a social
                    setting could be restrained by government or by each person in the society recognizing the rights of
                        others.31 Jefferson approvingly quoted Vattel to the effect that justice is
                    the equivalent of an "obligation to respect the rights of others."32 Man-made law existed to ensure a just society by sanctioning men or governments who
                    failed to recognize this obligation to respect others' rights. Jefferson noted that "every
                    power is dangerous which is not bound up by general rules."33 The
                    threat to rights from government was greater than that from individuals and was addressed by
                    constitutions and declarations of rights restricting governmental authority.
            In a bill of rights the government both recognized individual liberties and pledged not to abridge
                    those liberties. One writer has described this as a "Lockean conception of liberty as a
                    'natural right' to be protected against government."34 Jefferson made
                    the same point in the following terms: "that a bill of rights is what the people are
                    entitled to against every government on earth, general or particular; and what no just government
                    should refuse or rest on inference."35
            
            John Locke wrote that government "has no other end but the preservation of
                        property."36 His position was definitive for many Enlightenment
                    theoreticians and was shared by most colonial leaders.37 Jefferson, 
                  
                     30 TJ to Noah Webster, December 4, 1790, in Jefferson
                                Writings, VII, 112-13.
                  
                     31 This concept, frequently defined as "private
                            virtue," is integral to republican ideology and American Whiggism. See Gordon S.
                            Wood, The Creation of the American Republic, 1776-1787 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1969). Support for the proposition that Jefferson was an American Whig
                            in political ideology can be found in Jack P. Greene, "Society, Ideology, and
                            Politics: An Analysis of the Political Culture of Mid-Eighteenth Century 
                                Virginia
                            ," in Society, Freedom, and Conscience: The American
                                Revolution in 
                           Virginia, Massachusetts
                        , and 
                                    New York
                                
                     , ed. Richard Jellison (
                                New York
                            , 1976), 14-76, 191-201; George M. Curtis III, "The Role of the Courts
                            in the Making of Revolution in 
                                Virginia
                            ," in The Human Dimensions of Nation-Making: Colonial and
                                Revolutionary America, ed. James Kirby Martin (
                        Madison, Wisc
                     .,
                            1976) 144-45; H. Trevor Col-bourn, The Lamp of Experience: Whig History and the
                                Intellectual Origins of the American Revolution (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1965), 162-87.
                  
                     32"TJ, "Opinion on the question whether the 
                                United States
                            …," 239.
                  
                     33 TJ to James 
                                Madison
                            , February 17, 1826, in Jefferson Writings, XVI, 156.
                  
                     34 James MacGregor Burns, The Vineyard of Liberty (
                                New York
                            , 1982), 263.
                  
                     35"TJ to James 
                                Madison
                            , December 20, 1787, in Jefferson Writings, VI, 387-88.
                  
                     36 John Locke, The Second Treatise of Government: An
                                Essay Concerning the True Original, Extent, and End of Civil Government, ed. Peter
                            Laslett (1690; reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1960), 373.
                  
                     37 Bernard Bailyn states that the natural rights of men were generally
                            understood to be life, liberty, and property. Pamphlets of the American
                                Revolution, 1750-1776,
               
                     apparently, departed from Lockean orthodoxy on property.38 In the Declaration he listed only life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness
                    as unalienable rights and recommended the same to 
                        Lafayette
                     in his drafting of the Declaration of the Rights of Man. Nonetheless, Jefferson
                    believed the right to property essential to the pursuit of happiness and a legitimate focus of
                    governmental action.39 Laws for the protection of private property were
                    essential to the maintenance of the civil society.
            Jefferson contended that laws governing property and society in general should reflect the natural
                    law and serve the social good. "A right to property," he wrote, "is
                    founded in our natural wants in the means with which we are endowed to satisfy these wants, and that
                    right to what we acquire by those means without violating the similar rights of sensible
                    beings."40 He also wrote of "a right given by nature to all men, individual or
                    associated: that of rescuing their own property wrongfully taken."41
            
            Property rights were established by labor or creative energy. Both were products of man's natural
                    wants that produced social good. Land rightfully belonged only to men who would occupy and use it.
                    Likewise, an inventor could benefit from the product of his ideas, but the ideas belonged to
                    society, not to the individual.42 Accordingly, the profits due a person from his
                    efforts in working land or inventing a new product should not be taken arbitrarily. The laws of
                    property should protect a man's economic interest in these pursuits. But inheritance on the basis of
                    birth was something else. No labor or invention created a property right in inherited property.
                    Jefferson saw inheritance laws that transferred the benefit of property to people who expended no
                    effort in creating its value as inconsistent with natural 
                  ed. Bernard Bailyn (2 vols., 
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1965), I, 109. Gary Nash writes of "a revolutionary generation
                            that had seen property and human rights as closely intertwined." Gary B. Nash, Race and Revolution (
                        Madison, Wisc
                     ., 1990),
                            36; John Chester Miller asserts that a central tenet of that ideology was the right to
                            property as "a moral right of man." John Chester Miller, The
                                Wolf By The Ears: Thomas Jefferson and Slavery (
                                New York
                            , 1977), 15.
                  
                     38 To the contrary, he described the purpose of government to be the
                            more inclusive provision for the people's happiness. TJ to Republican citizens of
                                    
                        Washington County, Maryland
                     , March 31, 1809, in Jefferson
                                Writings, XVI, 355; TJ to Francis A. Vanderkamp, March 22, 1812, in ibid., XIII, 135.
                  
                     39 See Willi Paul Adams, The First American
                                Constitutions: Republican Ideology and the Making of the State Constitutions in the
                                Revolutionary Era (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1980).
                  
                     40 TJ to Pierre Samuel DuPont de Nemours, April 24,1816, in Jefferson Writings, XIV, 487.
                  
                     41 TJ to W. C. C. Claiborne, May 3, 1810, in ibid.,
                            XII, 383.
                  
                     42 TJ to Rev. James 
                                Madison
                            , October 28, 1785, in ibid., XIX, 15; TJ to Isaac McPherson,
                            August 13, 1813, in Selections of the Writings of Thomas Jefferson, ed.
                            Saul K. Padover, 1011-17. See also the discussion of early property rights in English law
                            and society in Morgan, American Slavery, 23-24. Morgan Notes a general
                            acceptance, as early as the sixteenth century, of the precept that work on the land preceded
                            property rights in the land, the sole purpose of the latter being to protect the
                        former.
               
                     law. These laws could be changed without depriving a person of
                    any natural rights.43
            
            Jefferson conceived another function of government to be the protection of equality. "Of
                    liberty," he wrote in 1819, "then I would say that, in the whole plenitude of its
                    extent, it is unobstructed action according to our will, but rightful liberty is unobstructed action
                    according to our will within limits drawn around us by the equal right of others."44 For Jefferson "equal rights" existed not as a positive
                    right to be secured by government, but as a legal recognition of the limits of liberty. Government
                    authority preserved one citizen's rights from interference by others. Yet the government's ability
                    to exercise this authority was tempered by the greater risk posed to human rights from government
                    than from other men.45 Jefferson never envisioned a government acting positively
                    to create or assert the rights of one citizen relative to another, especially not in the name of
                    "equality": "To take from one, because it is thought his own industry and
                    that of his father had acquired too much in order to spare to others who or whose fathers have not
                    exercised equal industry or skill is to violate arbitrarily the free principle of association, the
                    guarantee to everyone a free exercise of his industry and the fruits acquired by it."46
            
            Jefferson believed that government should be limited both in size and scope and that government power
                    should be centered in those institutions closest to the people. David Mayer has recently written
                    that Jefferson's Whig constitutionalism was rooted in "a profound distrust of concentrated
                    political power and, with it, an especially intense devotion to the ideal of limited
                        government."47 In his Notes Jefferson wrote that
                    the "legitimate powers of government extend to such acts only as are injurious to
                        others."48 At his 1801 inauguration he described his institutional
                    ideal as "a wise and frugal government, which shall restrain men from injuring one another,
                    which shall leave them free to regulate their pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not
                    take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government."
                    Ellis, relying on this and similar pronouncements, has concluded that Jefferson "remained
                    true to the Whig tradition, which regarded any explicit exercise of authority that was not
                    consensual or voluntary as inherently invasive."49 Thus to ensure that
                    the government did not exceed its authority, Jefferson believed that local and state governments
                    should be 
                  
                     43 TJ to James 
                                Madison
                            , September 6, 1789, in Jefferson Papers, XV, 392.
                  
                     44 TJ to Isaac H. Tiffany, April 4, 1819, in Political
                                Writings, Dumbauld, 55.
                  
                     45 TJ, "A Bill for Establishing Religious Freedom,"
                                Selections, Padover, 946-47.
                  
                     46 TJ to Joseph Milligan, April 16, 1816, in Jefferson
                                Writings, XIV, 466.
                  
                     47 David N. Mayer, The Constitutional Thought of Thomas
                                Jefferson (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1994), 2.
                  
                     48 TJ, Query XVII, Notes on the State of 
                                    Virginia
                                , in Jefferson Writings, II.
                  
                     49 Ellis, American Sphinx, 183.
               
                     given broad responsibility relative to the
                    "general" or national government.50
            
            The 
                        Kentucky
                     Resolution of 1798 in protest of the Alien and Sedition Laws and the Proposed Protest
                    of 
                        Virginia
                     in 1825 both reflect Jefferson's commitment to this constitutional ideal. In 1798 he
                    wrote: 
                        Resolved, That the several States composing the 
                                United States
                             of America; are not united on the principle of unlimited submission to their
                            General Government, but that, by a compact under the style and title of a Constitution for
                            the 
                                United States
                            , and of amendments thereto, they constituted a General Government for special
                            purposes, —delegated to that government certain definite powers, reserving, each
                            State to itself, the residuary mass of right to their own self-government.51
                  
                    The same idea he expressed even more vehemently in 1825:
            
                    But the federal branch has assumed in some cases and claimed in others a right of enlarging its
                        own powers by constructions, inferences, and indefinite deductions from those directly given,
                        which this assembly does declare to be usurpations of the powers retained to the independent
                        branches, mere interpolations into the compact, and direct infractions of it.52
               
                
            Some have claimed that Jefferson, while president, compromised or was untrue to these professed
                    beliefs in limited government exercised in institutions closest to the people.53
                    However, as Mayer argues, Jefferson came increasingly to a republican constitutionalism in which the
                    Constitution and the elective power of the people together checked governmental authority. As
                    president, he had surplus revenues in the treasury and recognized a public need for internal
                    improvements that could not feasibly be pursued on anything but a national scale. Yet he still would
                    not act without a constitutional amendment authorizing the government to undertake the construction
                    of "new and indissoluble ties" through expenditures in support of
                    "rivers, canals, roads, arts, manufactures, and education."54
                    
                  
                     50 TJ to Archibald Stuart, December 23, 1791, in Jefferson Papers, XXII, 436; TJ to George Wythe, September 16, 1787, in ibid., XII, 127. See also Ellis, American Sphinx, 254,
                            261.
                  
                     51 TJ, "The 
                                Kentucky
                             Resolutions," October, 1798, in The Portable
                            Jefferson, ed. Merrill D. Peterson (
                                New York
                            , 1975), 281.
                  
                     52 TJ, "The Solemn Declaration and Protest of the
                            Commonwealth of 
                                Virginia
                            , on the Principles of the Constitution of the 
                                United States
                             of America and on the Violations of Them," 1825, in The
                                Works of Thomas Jefferson, ed. Paul Leicester Ford (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1892-1899), X, 348-52.
                  
                     53 For a response to this contention see Joyce Appleby,
                            "Jefferson and His Complex Legacy," in Jeffersonian
                            Legacies, Onuf, 11.
                  
                     54 TJ, Second Inaugural Address, March 4, 1805, in Jefferson Works, X, 130. John Lauritz Larson concludes, however, that Jefferson's
                            ideological dogmatism on this point is attributable less to a belief in limited government
                            than to a reactionary position of political opposition and perceived Federalist abuses of
                            power. John Lauritz Larson, "Jefferson's Union and the Problem of Internal
                            Improvements," in Jeffersonian Legacies, Onuf, 340-69. Yet, even
                            Larson implicitly recognizes Jefferson's need for consistency and the way in which his
                            ideology restrained his political behavior. During the presidency of John Quincy Adams,
                            federal government initiatives for building roads and canals were proposed. In the course of
                            debate on these proposals,
               
                     The law, in the form of the Constitution, could restrain
                    elected officials from addressing necessary social goals until the people allocated to them
                    sufficient authority. A similar adherence to constitutional principle is evident in Jefferson's
                    hesitancy in finalizing the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase or advocating a national university without a constitutional amendment.55
            
            American republicanism rested on civic humanism that envisioned rational and virtuous men exercising
                    their natural rights of political self-governance with full respect for the equal rights of fellow
                    citizens to pursue their own political, economic, and personal goals. Gordon Wood writes that this
                    ideal of "republicanism meant more for Americans than simply the elimination of a king and
                    the institution of an elective system. It added a moral dimension, a utopian depth, to the political
                    separation from 
                        England
                    —a depth that involved the very character of the society."56 In the years after the Revolution, the civic humanism contained in American
                    republicanism would be challenged by, and integrated with, a liberal doctrine of unfettered
                    individual freedoms and capitalistic pursuits.57
            
            While political leaders fought their constitutional and public law battles over how much the new
                    nation was going to reflect "republican virtue" or "democratic
                    self-interest," the decision was largely being made in the private law forum. The
                    importance of private law courts derived in part from the legal confusion following the Revolution.
                    Morton Horowitz finds that postrevolutionary America had to reconstruct the legitimacy of law on a
                    consensual foundation. This required either legislative enactment, reliance on custom, or, as James
                    Wilson maintained, acceptance of common law judges as agents of a sovereign people. The judges
                    themselves chose the third option in the absence of any other authority. Judges came to see their
                    function as having expanded beyond merely applying existing law to reshaping and modifying law to
                    meet the needs and wants of a growing society. Judges believed that they could be more responsive
                    than the legislatures—they had to be for their dockets would not wait for legislative
                    direction. Implicitly, they argued, judicial authority remained checked, for if the legislature
                    disagreed with a developing common law doctrine, it could always reverse it. Meanwhile, the growth
                    of judicial authority created an expanded role for common law judges to play in directing the
                    nation's course into the nineteenth century.58
            
            
               Jefferson remarked that disunion was a great calamity, "but not the greatest. There
                        is yet one greater—submission to a government of unlimited powers." TJ,
                        "Protest of 
                            Virginia
                        ," in Jefferson Works, X, 348-52.
               
                  55 Dumas Malone, Jefferson the President, First Term,
                            1801-1805: Vol. IV, Jefferson and His Time (
                            Boston
                        , 1970), 236, 311-32.
               
                  56 Gordon S. Wood, "Interests and Disinterestedness in the Making
                        of the Constitution," in Beyond Confederation: Origins of the Constitution
                            and American National Identity, ed. Richard Beeman (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 1987), 70, 81.
               
                  57 Wood, Creation of the American Republic, 31.
               
                  58 Morton J. Horowitz, The Transformation of American Law,
                            1780-1860 (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1977), 11-17.
            
            
            The judicial assumption of greater power did not meet with universal approbation. Republican theory
                    provided that under a constitutional framework judges were to follow the letter of the law as
                    expressed by the populace through its legislature. Jefferson wrote in 1785 that by applying their
                    own sense of right and reason judges had sought to render the law more certain, but instead they
                    made it more uncertain.59 Partly in response to these attacks, a self-conscious
                    judiciary moved to ensure greater legitimacy by insisting on published reports of common law
                    precedents, relying on stricter enforcement of legal rules of procedure and thereby sharpening
                    pleadings and limiting the role of juries, elevating the stature of a professional bar, and relying
                    on established common law principles to instruct juries or set aside jury verdicts.60 Justice Joseph Story, himself a key proponent of judicial positivism, notes that judges
                    were restrained in shaping the law by immutable principles of reason, morality, and order, as well
                    as by the need to follow precedent.61
            
            Recent scholarship in the American legal history of the early republic has opposed the earlier
                    teachings of the instrumentalist school that law served merely as a tool to organize society to
                    reflect prevailing social values. Newer work in this area has shown law's role to be much more
                    complex than initially postulated. Law does not merely reflect social values, economic interests, or
                    political structure. It is not subject to change at the whim of a business, political, or legal
                    elite. The multiplicity of legal actors and their varied motivations reject this reductionist
                        idea.62
            
            Law, to maintain its legitimacy, must rely on certain eternal truths as well as its own internal
                    integrity, referred to as precedent, procedure, or constitutionality. It also must either embody
                    prevailing social values and beliefs or risk divorcing itself from the public and prompting anarchy
                    or revolution. In America it has fulfilled both these needs by assuming a relatively autonomous and
                    hegemonic function, reminding society of its traditional values and beliefs even as it has
                    reoriented them in changing legal decisions. Many authors have noted that the pace of legal change
                    is incrernental.63 Law's structural 
                  
                     59
                     Ibid., 18.
                  
                     60
                     Ibid., 1-17.
                  
                     61 R. Kent Newmyer, Supreme Court Justice Joseph Story:
                                Statesman of the Old Republic (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1985), 96-97.
                  
                     62 See Michael Grossberg, Governing the Hearth: Law and
                                Family in Nineteenth-Century America (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1985); Christopher Tomlins, Law, Labor, and Ideology in the
                                Early American Republic (
                                New York
                            , 1993).
                  
                     63 Grossberg, Governing the Hearth, xi. Similar
                            conclusions have been offered by other historians. Tomlins finds that judges in the early
                            republic perceived law as "the great rock of cultural stability and ideological
                            certainty." He asserts that during this period law was determined by recourse to
                            legal discourse's own rules of formation rather than by obedience to extralegal societal
                            forces or considerations. "Law's relationship to the economy, as to any social
                            process, is hence mediated by the particularities and anomalies of its own process of
                            creation." Tomlins,Law, Labor, and Ideology, 284, 294. Similarly,
                            Mark Tushnet concludes, "Legal institutions mediate the impact of
               
                     dependence on the Constitution, common law precedent, and the
                    procedural dictates of pleading recognizable legal arguments mitigate any social tendencies toward
                    rapid transformation. Typical of many of the founding fathers, Jefferson respected law precisely for
                    its institutional inertia.
            To Jefferson the Constitution guaranteed that the people's will should be expressed in the laws. He
                    was unwilling to give the court any authority that might impinge on the rights of the electorate.
                    Herbert Sloan argues that Jefferson's advocacy of generational revision of the Constitution must not
                    be misunderstood as endorsing the idea of a living constitution. Jefferson was a strict
                    constructionist. To him the only proper interpretation of law was the original intent of the
                    drafters. To rewrite the Constitution because it no longer fit social needs was quite different than
                    to misread the old document to serve political purposes.64 Likewise, statutory
                    law was to be modified only in accordance with the opinions of a changing electorate. Judges and
                    legislators alike were compelled to accept the laws as written. Jefferson expressed the supremacy of
                    law as the basis of a judge's authority when he wrote, "Relieve the judges from the rigor
                    of text law, and permit them, with praetorian discretion, to wander into equity and the whole legal
                    system becomes uncertain."65 Elsewhere, he advocated "strict
                    and inflexible" rulings by judges acting as "mere machines."66 John Dos Passos notes that Jefferson wanted law to create a system of
                    authority. This differed from the practice of much of the world where authority laid down the
                        law.67 Christopher Tomlins summarizes what could be Jefferson's own thoughts
                    on legal authority: "Law, not politics, furnished the discourse of rule in this American
                    model…. America was to be a polity of laws and not men, a polity of the rule of
                        law."68 Law embodied the best in man—his reason,
                    rationality, and ability to conceive a social ideal. It could not be subordinated to the passions of
                    a few reformers.
            In the early republic law came to encompass republican ideals. Constitutions delineated the
                    authorities of various governmental bodies and restricted the scope of their actions relative to
                    citizens' rights. Public and private law expressed the Jeffersonian precepts of the primacy of civil
                    law, a preference for limited government exercised in institutional bodies closest to the people,
                    respect of majority 
                  interest on law by creating a profession with its own interests and by making precedent
                            important." Mark Tushnet, The American Law of Slavery, 1810-1860:
                                Considerations of Humanity and Interest (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1981), 31.
                  
                     64 Herbert Sloan, "The Earth Belongs in Usufruct to the
                            Living," in Jeffersonian Legacies, Onuf, 303. See also Dumas
                            Malone, Jefferson and the Ordeal of Liberty: Vol. II, Jefferson and His Time (
                                Boston
                            , 1962), 341-42.
                  
                     65 TJ to Philip Mazzei, November, 1985, in Jefferson
                                Papers, IX, 67-72.
                  
                     66 TJ to Edmund Pendleton, August 26, 1776, in ibid., I, 505.
                  
                     67 John Dos Passos, The Head and the Heart of Thomas
                                Jefferson (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1954), 161.
                  
                     68 Tomlins, Law, Labor, and Ideology, 92.
               
                     rule, and the security of property rights. Moreover, law came
                    to function as the civil authority. Its reliance on precedent, constitutionality, and procedural
                    conformity precluded radical social change. As an expression of Jeffersonian ideas as well as the
                    authority within the civil society, it would shape whatever alternatives the man or the country
                    could pursue regarding slavery.
            Whether Jefferson was restrained by his own political and legal ideology in his approach to slavery
                    would be largely irrelevant if he had not desired its abolition. The historiography that has been
                    critical of Jefferson's inaction on slavery has frequently assumed that Jefferson condoned the
                        institution.69 His writings and public actions, however, expressed a
                    different attitude.70
            
            Jefferson believed slavery to be a social evil because it denied men their natural liberties. In
                    addition, it corrupted the slaveholders and their society. Lastly, it created the possibility of
                    armed conflict within society through a slave revolt. Jefferson explained the basis of his fears of
                    revolt in his belief that "all men would and should rise up against so antirepublican a
                    horror as slavery."71 The "Saint Domingue" revolt was
                    an example of this fear becoming reality. Jefferson's statements of his own attitude about slavery
                    included condemnations of the institution for each of the above reasons, combined with elements of
                    self-excoriation and rationalization.72 Yet these statements are included in the
                        Notes in which Jefferson also emphasized perceived differences between the
                    races, appearing to some even to justify slavery.
            In Query XIV of the Notes, Jefferson identified only one
                    "difference… fixed in nature" between the races—that of
                    color. And while he derived from that difference some aesthetic conclusions, he did not find color
                    to render blacks any less entitled to recognition of their natural rights than whites. Jefferson
                    wrote of a "suspicion… hazarded with great diffidence" that blacks were
                    "inferior to whites in the endowments of both mind and body," while seeming
                    willing, even anxious, to have his suspicion proved wrong. In any case political equality was never
                    dependent upon equal faculties but rather on a natural liberty. Jefferson never doubted the humanity
                    of slaves. "Nothing is more certainly written in the book of fate than that these 
                  
                     69 See, for example, Paul Finkelman, "Thomas Jefferson and
                            Antislavery: The Myth Goes On," 
                        
                                    Virginia
                                 Magazine of History and Biography, CII (1994), 193.
                  
                     70 Ellis argues similarly, finding that Jefferson believed
                            "that slavery was morally incompatible with the principles of the American
                            Revolution" and felt embarrassment before both French friends and even God for his
                            country's toleration of the institution. Ellis, American Sphinx, 86-87.
                  
                     71 This fear and the irony of Americans themselves being victims of a
                            republican revolution is also evident in a letter to George Tucker in 1797, in which
                            Jefferson writes, "if something is not done, and done soon, we shall be the
                            murderers of our own children;… the revolutionary storm, now sweeping the globe,
                            will be upon us." TJ to St. George Tucker, August 28, 1787, in Jefferson Writings, IX, 418.
                  
                     72 TJ, Query XVIII, Notes on 
                                    Virginia
                                , in Jefferson Writings, II, 225-28.
               
                     people are to be free," he observed in his
                        autobiography.73 In the Notes he even referred to them as
                        citizen^."74
            
            Cover notices that Jefferson's tone on slavery in the Notes varies from the chapter
                    on "Administration of Justice," (Query XIV), in which he offers a "racist
                    tentative justification," to a strong condemnation in (Query XVIII), "Particular
                    Customs and Manners." He surmises astutely that Jefferson could allow himself less room to
                    offer radical criticism in writing about the laws than he could in writing about social behavior.75 Citizens in the society were to live in accordance with the laws until they
                    were changed; social customs were not due any similar deference. John C. Miller writes that
                    "the significance of the Notes is not that Jefferson presented a brief
                    for black inferiority but that he demanded the extinction of slavery.'76 This
                    reading puts the work in agreement with Jefferson's other public writings, correspondence, and
                    political actions regarding slavery and the law.
            Jefferson believed black slaves to be human and thus entitled to the legal protection of their
                    natural rights. This belief, in part, led him to take the actions opposing slavery that he did. Yet
                    the extent to which Jefferson was willing to take public action in support of abolition was
                    restrained by other ideological beliefs as strong and important to Jefferson as his belief in the
                    humanity of the slaves. Jefferson's awareness of these competing tensions was manifested in his
                    public actions. These actions, when examined in light of his political philosophy, show him to have
                    acted purposefully in a manner consistent with his beliefs.
            
               
                  73 TJ, "Autobiography," in Selections,
                        Padover, 1150. See also TJ to Henri Gre-goire, February 25, 1809, in Portable
                            Jefferson, Peterson, 517.
               
                        
                     74 As much as many slaveholders may have been troubled by slavery, it was
                            a fact of their lives. Jefferson was surrounded by slavery. He owned slaves, his friends
                            owned slaves, and the law recognized slaves. Despite personal anguish over the institution,
                            Jefferson continued it. When he wrote the Declaration of Independence, Jefferson had almost
                            two hundred slaves; fifty years later he had over two hundred. Morgan, American
                                Slavery, 4. He bought and sold over fifty slaves between 1784 and 1794. Miller, Wolf By the Ears, 107. Indeed, 
                                Virginia
                            's law limited manumission in order to preserve civic order and economic
                            stability; yet Jefferson asserted that slaveholders merely "lacked the courage to
                            divest their families of a property, which however, keeps their conscience
                            unquiet." TJ to Richard Price, August 7, 1785, in Jefferson
                            Writings, V, 55.
                        For Jefferson's treatment of and attitude toward his slaves see Lucia Stanton,
                            "Those Who Labor for My Happiness: Thomas Jefferson and His Slaves," in
                                Jeffersonian Legacies, Onuf, 147-80.
                    
               
                  75 Cover, Justice Accused, 106.
               
                  76 John Chester Miller, "Slavery," in Thomas Jefferson: A Reference Biography, ed. Merrill D. Peterson (
                            New York
                        , 1986), 426. It should be added that Jefferson's antipathy for slavery was shared
                        by many of his closest friends. Of George Wythe, Jefferson wrote, his "sentiments on
                        the subject of slavery are unequivocal." TJ to Richard Price, August 7, 1785, in Jefferson Writings, IX, 67-72. Another member of their
                        "circle," Francis Fauquier, noted in his will that slavery was "in
                        its nature disagreeable." Dos Passos, Head and the Heart of Thomas
                            Jefferson, 161. See also Drew McCoy, The Last of the Fathers: James 
                                Madison
                             and the Republican Legacy (
                            New York
                        , 1989), 261.
            
            
            In 1769, as a young legislator in the 
                        Virginia
                     House of Burgesses, Jefferson attempted to change the law in his state to allow private
                    manumission of slaves. He subsequently referred to the experience in his autobiography and in a
                    letter to Edward Coles:
            
                    I drew to this subject the attention of Col. Bland, one of the oldest, ablest, and most respected
                        members, and he undertook to move for certain moderate extensions of the protection of the laws
                        of these people. I seconded his motion, and as a younger member was more spared in the debate;
                        but he was denounced as an enemy of his country and treated with the grossest indecorum.77
               
                
            The next public statement Jefferson made on slavery came in his drafts of grievances against Britain
                    prior to the Revolution. Perhaps the best insights into Jefferson's understanding of law as
                    establishing a "form" of social governance are presented in these writings.
                    Jefferson's commitment to including comments on slavery in his draft of the Declaration of
                    Independence is evident in his earlier use of a slavery clause in a submission to the 
                        Virginia
                     Convention that was later published in A Summary View of the Rights of
                        British America (1774). There Jefferson accused the king of perverting the government
                    "by prompting our negroes to rise in arms among us, those very negroes whom, by an inhuman
                    use of his negative, he hath refused us permission to exclude by law." In the Declaration
                    Jefferson separated these two arguments. In his draft he wrote, "He has incited…
                    insurrections among slaves… [encouraging them to] rise in arms." His point in
                    this grievance was that the king was using slaves, like Indians and loyalists, to fight for Britain,
                    a reference to Governor Dunmore's call in 1775 for slaves to attack their masters. Congress
                    condensed the assertion: "[he has] excited domestic insurrection amongst us." The
                    other argument, from A Summary View, Jefferson spelled out in greater detail:
            
                    He [the king] has urged cruel war against human nature itself, violating its most sacred rights
                        of life and liberty in the persons of a distinct people who never offended him, captivating and
                        carrying them into slavery in another hemisphere or to incur miserable death in their
                        transportation thither. This piratical warfare, the opprobrium of infidel powers is the warfare
                        of the Christian king of Great Britain. Determined to keep open a market where men should be
                        bought and sold, he has prostituted his negative for oppressing every legislative attempt to
                        prohibit or to restrain this execrable commerce.78
               
                
            Jefferson referred to King George's veto of colonial bills limiting the importation of slaves.
                    Congress struck this paragraph when 
                        South Carolina
                     and 
                        Georgia
                     made plain their desire to continue importing slaves and because it deemed the
                    provision inconsistent with 
                  
                     77 TJ, "Autobiography," in Selections, Padover, 1148. Jefferson mentioned this action only in two writings many
                            years after the event, but this should not, of itself, render his account unbelievable.
                  
                     78 Garry Wills, Inventing America: Jefferson's
                                Declaration of Independence(
                                New York
                            , 1970), 67-75.
               
                    
                    
                  Isaac Jefferson (1775-1849)
                  Montieello, Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, Ihe., 
                        Charlottesville, Virginia
                     .
               
                     the earlier criticism of the king. Garry Wills puts the
                    congressional position succinctly, "How can Congress criticize the King for freeing the
                    slaves to fight against their owners and also for imposing slavery, a cruel and inhumane
                    institution, upon the colonies?"79
            
            Yet Jefferson did not see the inconsistency. He believed that the colonial exercise of the public
                    will through elected officials to limit the growth of an abhorrent institution was legitimate, while
                    encouraging slaves to revolt against the American populace, as the king did in total disregard for
                    property rights and law, was not a legitimate governmental action. To most of the world the revised
                    document is more consistent and supportable. But for Jefferson the point concerning the legitimate
                    exercise of governmental power was lost in the revision. He expressed an antipathy toward slavery by
                    referring favorably to bills designed to limit the importation of slaves.80 Yet
                    the draft also expressed his anger at the king's efforts to free the slaves. The inconsistency
                    disappears if one's focus is not the slaves but the use of governmental authority consistent with
                    constitutional law. Both actions by the king were illegal according to Jefferson. If Jefferson's
                    statements concerning slavery in the Declaration are read in reference to the colonial petitions
                    against British policy in the years before the Revolution, his antipathy toward slavery and his
                    insistence that it be addressed within the limits of law become clear.
            The Declaration offers an excellent example of Jefferson's reasoning regarding the use of
                    governmental authority and law in dealing with social concerns. John Phillip Reid argues that
                    American grievances were written as appeals to King George to reassert the traditional 1688
                    constitution of 
                        England
                     in which the colonists perceived the king's prerogative as a check on parliamentary
                    tyranny. Jefferson's language in the Declaration evinced the same argument. In this way, the
                    Revolution is understandable as a legalistic reaction to changes in the English constitution that
                    resulted in increased parliamentary rule over the colonies. Parliament had not only undermined the
                    authority of colonial legislatures by 1765 but the authority of the king as well.81
            
            Some might argue that if Jefferson could advocate revolution, seemingly in disregard of the
                    legitimacy of law and constitutional order, to secure the natural rights of white Americans, how
                    could he 
                  
                     79
                            Ibid.
                  
                     80 In his "Autobiography," Jefferson referred to a
                            subsequent bill he proposed in 1778, which passed. Its stated purpose was to stop
                            "the increase of the evil by importation, leaving to future efforts its final
                            eradication." Jefferson's sincerity may be judged by the repeated expression of
                            this same desire to take steps to eliminate slavery, ultimately to be accomplished only when
                            the public willed it. Jefferson, "Autobiography," in Selections, Padover, 1141.
                  
                     81 John Phillip Reid, Constitutional History of the
                                American Revolution: The Authority of Law (
                        Madison, Wisc
                     .,
                            1993). See also Mayer, Constitutional Thought, 28-52.
               
                     be restrained by a political theory endorsing the primacy of
                    law and constitutionalism from acting to secure the same rights for black Americans? The answer is
                    that in justifying the Revolution Jefferson was appealing to, not arguing against, the established
                    constitutional order. He believed that 
                        England
                     had violated its own constitution and was dependent upon America to save it. The same
                    argument would not support political action to free black Americans held in slavery. In that case,
                    America's own elected representatives created positive laws of slavery. As Judge Mansfield
                    implicitly said in the 
                        
                            Somerset
                        
                     case in 
                        England
                     in 1772, positive law could occasionally create a situation contrary to reason and
                    nature. When this occurred, as it did in the instance of slavery, Jefferson had confidence enough to
                    rely on the ultimate reason of the American people to bring about change through the political-legal
                    system. He could encourage that change first in the minds of his fellow citizens and then through
                    proposals to revise its laws; but he could not dictate it.
            During the Revolution, Jefferson served on a committee to revise the laws of 
                        Virginia
                    , whose lofty purpose he described as follows: "that our whole code must be
                    reviewed, adapted to our republican form of government, and now that we had no negative of councils,
                    governors, kings to restrain us from doing right, that it should be corrected in all its parts with
                    a single eye to reason, and the good of those for whose government it was formed."82 But doing what was right and reasonable for the good of the governed did not
                    include freeing the slaves. For Jefferson complete abolition was not then, or evidently at any other
                    time, even a possibility. Abolition would either have taken from current property holders that which
                    they had earned by their own efforts or forced the government to amass huge sums of money for
                    purchasing slaves and making some provision for them. The committee did, however, make a more modest
                    proposal, one consistent with Jefferson's ideas on property and the limits of government power.
            The first and only meeting of the committee in January, 1777, dealt with the conceptual framework of
                    a revision. Edmund Pendle-ton proposed using William Blackstone's model, to which Jefferson
                    objected. In his 1765 edition of the Commentaries on the Laws of 
                            England
                        
               , Blackstone asserted natural persons "are such as the God of nature
                    formed us." Blackstone deduced that slavery was invalid except as regards prisoners of war
                    and then only for the duration of the war.83 Chattel slavery, recognizing
                    bondage in perpetuity, did not and could not exist in 
                        England
                    . In his 1773 edition Blackstone modified his text to recognize slavery resting on
                    contract law in the colonies but did not change his conclusion regarding the legality of 
                  
                     82 Jefferson, "Autobiography," in Selections, Padover, 1148.
                  
                     83 John T. Noonan, Jr., Persons and Masks of the Law:
                                Cardozo, Holmes, Jefferson, and Wythe as Makers of the Masks (
                                New York
                            , 1976), 47.
               
                     the institution in 
                        England
                    .84 John Quincy Adams later surmised that Jefferson realized that
                    adopting Blackstone's expression of English law would mean the abolition of slavery. "They
                    [then] must have restored slavery after having abolished it," Adams wrote, "they
                    must have assumed to themselves all the odium of establishing it as a positive institution, directly
                    in face of all the principles they had proclaimed."85 Jefferson
                    remembered that Blackstone's model was rejected because it would have eliminated the body of common
                    law that had been developed in America. The new code would then be subject to interpretation by the
                    courts, with the inevitable problem of property rights being, in Jefferson's words, up "in
                    the air" until decisions could be issued.86 Certainly the peculiar
                    American property right of slavery would have been one of those up "in the air."
            Jefferson and Wythe instead suggested a gradual abolition, emancipating slaves born some time after
                    the passage of the new code, educating them, and transporting them to a new land.87 This plan preserved current property interests, posed only a minimal disruption to society,
                    expanded governmental powers only slightly, and rid America of slavery and the risk of racial
                    violence and miscegenation. Moreover, because inherited property could more lawfully be alienated by
                    government action than earned property, postponement bought legitimacy. Jefferson's reasoning in
                    this proposal is best seen in his more detailed explanation of a similar plan put forward in 1824.
                    He proposed establishing a colony of freed slaves in Africa: 
                        To send off the whole of these at once, nobody conceives to be practicable for us, or
                            expedient to them. Let us take twenty five years for its accomplishment, within which time
                            they will be doubled. Their estimated value as property, in the first place, (for actual
                            property has been lawfully vested in that form, and who can lawfully take it from the
                            possessors?) at an average of two hundred dollars each, young and old, would amount to six
                            hundred million dollars, which must be paid or lost by somebody.88
                  
                    
                    
                  
                            
                        84 William M. Wiecek, "
                                    Somerset
                                : Lord Mansfield and the Legitimacy of Slavery in the Anglo-American
                                World," in Law, the Constitution and Slavery, ed. Paul
                                Finkelman (
                                    New York
                                , 1989), 582. Blackstone's 1773 edition reflected the effects of the 
                                    
                                        Somerset
                                    
                                 decision of 1772. That case said of slavery, "It is so odious that
                                nothing can be suffered to support it, but positive law." Judge Mansfield ruled
                                that positive law, such as the laws on slavery in the colonies, could create a situation
                                contrary to reason and nature. Once created, this law and the social situations it
                                engendered, would have to be enforced. To a lawyer in the late eighteenth century, the
                                law determined justice.
                            It should also be noted that Jefferson's aversion to Blackstone may have been rooted in
                                concerns other than slavery. Jefferson and other colonial lawyers and political
                                theorists found greater empathy with the writings of Coke expressing ideas more
                                compatible with the colonists' understandings of constitutional law. An excellent
                                analysis of this issue is found in John Phillip Reid, Constitutional
                                    History. For a discussion of the colonial preference of Coke over Blackstone
                                see also A. E. Dick Howard, The Road from Runnymeade: Magna Carta and
                                    Constitutionalism in America (
                                    Charlottesville
                                , Va., 1968).
                        
                  
                     85 Noonan, Persons and Masks, 50.
                  
                     86 TJ to Shelton Jones, July 28, 1809, in Jefferson
                                Writings, XII, 298-99.
                  
                     87 TJ, "Autobiography," in Selections, Padover, 1149-50.
                  
                     88 TJ to Jared Sparks, February 4, 1824, in Jefferson
                                Writings, XVI, 10.
               
                     Jefferson obviously did not find this plan feasible and
                    suggested instead emancipating children, since the "estimated value of the new born infant
                    is so low (say twelve dollars and fifty cents), that it would probably be yielded by the
                        owner."89 Yet even this proposal was rejected. "It was
                    thought that this should be kept back," he reflected in his autobiography, "and
                    attempted only by way of amendment…. It was found that the public mind would not yet bear
                    the proposition, nor will it even this day."90 Instead, the bill
                    contained only a provision banning the importation of slaves, which, rather than limiting the growth
                    of slavery, merely increased the value of the "property" already in the
                        commonwealth.91 In 1783 Jefferson had prepared a draft of a new 
                        Virginia
                     constitution that called again for gradual abolition. "The General assembly
                    shall not… permit the introduction of any more slaves to reside in this state,"
                    the document declared, "or the continuance of slavery beyond the generation which shall be
                    living on the 31st day of December 1800; all persons born after that day being hereby declared
                        free."92 While Jefferson's plan was never enacted, it confirmed the
                    consistency of his approach to slavery.
            In 1784 Jefferson took an important role in the congressional debates over westward expansion. 
                        Virginia
                     had ceded millions of acres north and west of the Ohio River to
                    the government. Jefferson was assigned to a committee to draft an ordinance outlining the course of
                    expansion into these lands. The committee recommended that the territory be closed to slavery after
                    1800. It was the first proposal of federal government action regarding slavery.93 This provision failed by one vote.94 The defeat prompted Jefferson to
                    write that the "fate of millions unborn [was] hanging on the tongue of one man, and heaven
                    was silent in that awful moment."95 He could support this provision
                    because it deprived no one of property and did not expand federal powers. At that point there was no
                    law permitting slavery in the Northwest Territory, so in its absence, natural law applied. In this
                    instance, Jefferson could give free expression to his antislavery sentiments.
            This was not the case when, in 1815, Congress attempted to dictate policy to territories attempting
                    to become states. Jefferson feared recent Supreme Court decisions expanding federal power relative
                    to the states. He believed that Congress lacked the power to prohibit new states from entering the
                    union by prescribing conditions 
                  
                            89
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     90 TJ, "Autobiography," in Selections, Padover, 1149-50.
                  
                     91 Noonan, Persons and Masks, 51; Dumas Malone, Jefferson the Virginian: Vol. I, Jefferson and His Time (
                                Boston
                            , 1948), 264.
                  
                     92 TJ, "Draft Constitution," in Jefferson Papers, IV, 298.
                  
                     93 William M. Wiecek, The Sources of Antislavery
                                Constitutionalism in America, 1760-1848 (
                                Ithaca
                            , N.Y., 1977), 60.
                  
                     94 Miller, Wolf By The Ears, 111-19.
                  
                     95 Freehling, "Founding Fathers," 87.
               
                     or establishing restrictions different from those imposed on
                    the original thirteen states. In support of states' rights and the primacy of popularly created law,
                    Jefferson was prompted, once again, to tolerate slavery. Unlike the Northwest Territory, the lands
                    in question in 1815, soon to enter the union as 
                        Missouri
                    , had legally sanctioned slavery consistent with the 
                        United States
                     Constitution. The federal government had no more right to prohibit slavery in these
                    territories than it had in 
                        Georgia
                     or 
                        Virginia
                    . One is tempted to say that Jefferson's fear of governmental power was greater than his
                    hatred of slavery. Yet this is misleading. Slavery could be wrong; but Jefferson could nonetheless
                    believe that the government lacked the power to alter it.
            Drew McCoy notes that there was a "greater issue" involved in the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise than whether 
                        Missouri
                     would be free or slave: whether Congress had the constitutional authority either to
                    restrict slavery in the territories or to attach conditions to the admission of new states.
                    Jefferson's opposition to the increase in federal government power at the time of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise was an expression of concern with this "greater issue."
            The Constitution provided that Congress could not act for twenty years, or until 1807, to abolish the
                    slave trade. William Wiecek observes that Jefferson as president at the time "called for
                    action at the earliest possible moment." Even then, the proposed ban of the slave trade
                    resulted in "heated… almost riotous debate" in the House.96 In Jefferson's annual message to Congress on December 2, 1806, he said,
            
                    I congratulate you, fellow citizens on the approach of the period when you may interpose your
                        authority institutionally [to stop Americans] from all further participation in those violations
                        of human rights, which have been so long continued on the unoffending inhabitants of Africa, and
                        which the morality, the reputation, and the best interests of our country have long been eager
                        to proscribe.97
               
                
            In retrospect, the abolition of the slave trade, secured in legislation, signed into law in 1807, and
                    effective January 1, 1808, may appear inconsequential. Slavery continued unabated in the South, and
                    the primary effect of the legislation was the increase in the value of slaves already in America.
                    Yet, William Freehling thinks disparaging the ban on the slave trade is a mistake. "This
                    accomplishment," he writes, "too often dismissed as a non-accomplishment, shows
                    more clearly than anything else the impact on anti-slavery of the Revolutionary generation.
                    Furthermore, nowhere else does one see so clearly that Thomas Jefferson helped cripple the Southern
                    slave establishment."98
            
            
               
                  96 Wiecek, Sources of Antislauery, 96-97.
               
                  97 Freehling, "Founding Fathers," 88.
               
                        98
                        lid.
                    
            
            
            Jefferson believed that reform must be premised on public opinion. Only the will of the people could
                    legitimately change social policy. Therefore, prohibitions of slavery must come as a result of
                    public sentiment. "You know that nobody wishes more ardently to see an abolition not only
                    of the trade but of the condition of slavery," he wrote in 1788. "But…
                    I am here as a public servant; and those whom I serve having not yet been able to give their voice
                    against this practice, it is decent for me to avoid too public a demonstration of my wishes to see
                    it abandoned.99
            
            He believed that the change would occur soon. In a letter in 1785 he wrote that the abolitionist
                    feeling was growing stronger in 
                        Virginia
                     because the young men there "under preparation for public life" had
                    "sucked in the principles of liberty as if it were their mother's milk" from the
                    teachings of Wythe.100 The key to abolition for Jefferson was education and
                    experience. Confident in the innate ability of man to perceive moral correctness and right reason,
                    it was only a matter of time before the public would realize the untenability of slavery.
            But, at the same time, Jefferson was concerned "that premature endorsement by a figure of
                    his prominence might easily damage the antislavery cause."101 In 1785
                    he told his friends that they could not count on his active participation in the abolition movement
                    and later denied support to Edward Coles, who planned to release his slaves and establish them as
                    free farmers.102 Coles sought Jefferson's public voice and the voluntary
                    manumission of his slaves, but Jefferson felt compelled to wait for public opinion to take its
                    course.
            Many have criticized Jefferson for his failure to help Coles, deducing from this refusal only a tepid
                    commitment, at best, to the antislavery cause or finding it an example of inconsistency between
                    ideological expression and public action. Jefferson was not alone in refusing support, however.
                    Coles approached Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                     and was turned down by both. These men both believed that the actions of a few in
                    support of abolition could delay the ultimate success of the movement. Isolated instances of
                    emancipation may well have led southerners to intensify their defense of the institution. Coles had,
                    in the words of McCoy, "a principled and passionate hatred of slavery." Yet he not
                    only forgave Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                     for their lack of support, but he believed their positions to be consistent with their
                    political postures. He wrote that 
                        Madison
                    's principles were "sound, pure, conscientious." Coles described
                    Jefferson's position as "in perfect accordance with his character, in fine harmony with his
                    philanthropic republicanism, and in every way worthy of the renown[ed] 
                  
                     99 TJ to Brissot de Wanrille, February 11,1788, in Jefferson Papers, XII, 577-78.
                  
                     100 TJ to Richard Price, August 7, 1785, in ibid.,
                            VIII, 357.
                  
                     101
                            
                                Jordan
                            , White Over Black, 435.
                  
                     102 TJ to Edward Coles, August 25,1814, in Portable
                                Jefferson, Peterson, 544-47.
               
                     author of the Declaration of Independence."103 Apparently, in 1814 even the most assertive abolitionists recognized more
                    than one means by which to attain their goals.
            David Brion Davis notes that Jefferson had a "hostility to any interference with slavery or
                    race relations on the part of the central government."104 This is not
                    surprising. Jefferson consistently opposed federal government involvement in any realm outside of
                    interstate and foreign relations. He could support federal laws to ban the international slave trade
                    and restrict slavery in federal territories, but he would not sanction any federal action compelling
                    abolition or emancipation in the states. In this opinion, he was far from alone. Donald Fehrenbacher
                    contends that after 1787 the Constitution recognized slavery as almost entirely in the jurisdiction
                    of the states, much like the subjects of other legal codes concerning personal property
                    relationships—marriage, inheritance, and contract.105 James 
                        Madison
                     believed that for the federal government to affect slavery legally, a constitutional
                    amendment would be required.106 Davis too recognizes that many who despised
                    slavery believed abolition was beyond the scope of the federal government's powers.107
            
            Wiecek implicitly comes to the same conclusion. He contends that the 
                        
                            Somerset
                        
                     decision was well known in America only two years after its issuance. Antislavery advocates
                    cited the decision as evidence that slavery could not exist but for positive law creating it. Yet
                    Wiecek also notes,
            
                    Americans, for better or worse, are a peculiarly legalistic people. Moral or ideological
                        pressures alone, divorced from secular legal considerations, would not have accounted for the
                        potency of antislavery in the 
                            United States
                        . But slavery was, among other things, a legal institution, and attacks on its
                        legitimacy were especially congenial to the American temperament. Abolitionists struck one of
                        their most telling blows when they asserted that slavery had been established in America in
                        violation of natural law, the common law, and the constitutional order of the British colonies.
                        Yet, even abolitionists making this argument based on natural law and 
                            Somerset
                         denied that the federal government had any constitutional authority to invalidate
                        state slavery laws.108
               
                
            If slavery remained outside the scope of federal authority in Jeffersonian America, abolition would
                    have to be a state matter. In northern states abolitionist leaders did not have to wait for public
                        
                  
                     103 McCoy, Last of the Fathers, 310-13. McCoy also
                            notes David B. Davis's "different and somewhat misleading slant" on the
                            same topic in Slavery in the Age of Revolution. McCoy observes that 
                                Madison
                             discouraged an antislavery 
                                Quaker
                             from seeking an emancipation bill in the 
                                Virginia
                             legislature in 1791, as the pressure was "likely to do harm rather
                            than good." McCoy, Last of the Fathers, 305. See also Dumas
                            Mal-one, The Sage of 
                                    Monticello
                                : Vol. VI, Jefferson and His Time (
                                Boston
                            , 1981), 320-23.
                  
                     104 Davis, Slavery in the Age of Revolution, 90.
                  
                     105 Fehrenbacher, Slavery, Law, and Politics, 16.
                  
                     106 McCoy, Last of the Fathers, 277.
                  
                     107 Davis, Slavery in the Age of Revolution, 190.
                  
                     108 Wiecek, Sources of Antislavery, 602, 20,
                        603.
               
                     opinion, manifest in new laws after the Revolution, to embrace
                    the enlightened reason that Jefferson hoped to see in his Virginians. Where the majority will so
                    desired, state action could be taken to abolish slavery. Even in the North, however, abolition was
                    accompanied by a respect for the property rights of the slaveholders. States either compensated
                    slaveholders for their losses or after 1776 imposed gradual abolition.109
            
            In the South, reaching the same accommodation was more difficult. Political ideology may have defined
                    the issue, but regional variations in culture and economics produced different results. Jefferson
                    could not obtain majority support for abolition in 
                        Virginia
                     because, by 1780, slavery was too well enmeshed into southern society. Timothy Breen
                    points out that the "charter" colonists exercised great influence in shaping
                    colonial culture for subsequent generations. Early in the seventeenth century the North and South
                    established different social arrangements that later generations accepted. Of Virginians, Breen
                    writes, "They were not free to abolish slavery or staple crop agriculture: these had become
                    expressions of a regional way of life."110 Abolition in the North did
                    not involve depriving families of their fortunes or raising huge sums of money through taxation to
                    compensate them for their losses. Jeffersonian ideology, respecting property rights, state
                    sovereignty, majority rule, the primacy of law, and limited government, provided the terms on which
                    abolition would have to occur. Southern society could not easily meet those terms. Recognizing the
                    role of political ideology also helps to explain the temporary northern acceptance of the retention
                    of the institution in the South to a degree that economic, social, and psychological explanations
                    cannot. The North and South in the early republic shared a basic political ideology and legal
                    structure, if not a common psychological, social, or economic basis.
            Because he tended to confound political principle with virtue, Jefferson found compromise difficult.
                    He saw all human behavior as a reflection of character. His condemnation of much of contemporary 
                        Virginia
                     life in the Notes, from its economy and architecture to its
                    inadequate constitution, reflected more than a difference of opinion with his fellow Virginians; his
                    comments betray a disgust with the inability of his peers to live up to his ideals. The Newtonian
                    world view was, after all, premised on absolutes in the form of natural laws, Absolutes resist
                    variation.
            Many observers of Jefferson, both in his own time and subsequently, have commented on his rigid
                    adherence to principle and his 
                  
                     109 Freehling, Reintegration of American History,
                            17-18. See also Davis, Slavery in the Age of Revolution, 507-508; Cover,
                                Justice Accused, 43-62. Freehling states that even in the North,
                            abolition involved a balancing of interests, "splitting the difference between
                            property rights and human rights."
                  
                     110 Timothy Breen, "Creative Adaptations: Peoples and
                            Cultures," in Colonial British America, 
                                Greene
                             and Pole, 205.
               
                    
                    
                  EDWARD COLES (1786-1868)
                  Reproduced from Clarence W. Alvord, ed., Governor Edward Coles
                                (Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library, Vol XV; 
                                Springfield
                            , 1920), frontispiece.
               
                     intolerance of opposing views that to him appeared merely
                    "wrong." St. George Tucker said of Jefferson that "he was occasionally
                    somewhat dictatorial and impatient of contradiction."111 Gordon Wood
                    writes, "not only did Jefferson not have an original or skeptical mind, he could in fact be
                    downright doctrinaire, an early version of a knee-jerk liberal." Wood accepts Bernard
                    Bailyn's assertion that Jefferson was an eighteenth-century Enlightenment stereotype, accepting
                    liberal attitudes and ideas totally and uncritically. "Jefferson was inspired by a vision
                    of how things could and should be," continues Wood. "He was the pure American
                    innocent. He had little understanding of man's capacity for evil and had no tragic sense
                        whatsoever."112 One need not go so far as Wood in characterizing
                    Jefferson in order to recognize him as a man so deeply committed to ideals and principles that even
                    the most desired expedients for social good would be rejected if they contradicted, and therefore
                    threatened, the greater good. Leonard Levy describes Jefferson as having "little room for
                    compromise… and no room for self doubt." He had the "passion of a true
                    believer" and "behaved as if a prisoner of his own ideas."113 Ellis notes Jefferson's "instinctive tendency to think in terms of moralistic
                    dichotomies," his "affinity for idealized or idyllic vision," and his
                    "all or nothing mentality." Ellis writes, "Rather than adjust his
                    expectations in the face of disappointment, he tended to bury them deeper inside himself and regard
                    the disjunction between his ideals and worldly imperfections as the world's problem rather than his
                    own." For Jefferson, Ellis concludes, "there was one truth, not many."114
            
            Jefferson's truth did include recognition of the natural right to freedom. His political ideology,
                    however, required positive law to give effect to natural rights in a civil society. It was precisely
                    Jefferson's hopeful "innocence," as Wood puts it, that led him to believe that the
                    majority of people in his beloved 
                        Virginia
                     and in the whole of the 
                        United States
                     would eventually embrace abolition. But, until then, respect for the laws, embodying
                    the ideas of constitutionalism and republican government, had to be preeminent. Appleby notes that
                    Jefferson felt compelled to reconcile his "radical understanding of personal freedom with
                    pervasive assumptions about order and justice."115 Only in this context
                    does Wood's comment make sense: "He knew slavery was a great evil, but he believed his
                    generation could do little about it."116
            
            
               
                  111 St. George Tucker quoted in McCoy, Last of the
                        Fathers, 29-30. McCoy cites Tucker in the context of an appraisal of Jefferson as dogmatic
                        and argumentative.
               
                  112 Gordon S. Wood, "The Trials and Tribulations of Thomas
                        Jefferson," in Jeffersonian Legacies, Onuf, 369, 415.
               
                  113 Leonard W. Levy, "Civil Liberties," in Thomas Jefferson: A Reference Biography, Peterson, 342-43.
               
                  114 Ellis, American Sphinx, 43, 34, 53, 35, 200.
               
                  115 Appleby, "Complex Legacy," 4.
               
                  116 Wood, "Trials and Tribulations," 413.
            
            
            Jan Lewis and Merrill Peterson concur that Jefferson measured "worth in ideas and
                    institutions, not human relationship"117 Take, for example, his calm
                    detachment at the news of deaths in Shays' Rebellion. "I like a little rebellion now and
                    then," he wrote. "It is like a storm in the atmosphere. It was too bad that some
                    people were killed, but the tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of
                    patriots and tyrants. It is its natural manure."118 And of the French
                    Revolution, Jefferson observed, "Rather than it should have failed, I would have seen half
                    the earth desolated."119 Family tradition had it that when Shadwell,
                    Jefferson's childhood home, burned in 1770, his first concern was for his books and papers.120 And in a letter to his beloved daughter Polly he seemed to justify his love
                    of her on her continued fulfillment of his ideals for womanhood.121 jefferson
                    was just as hard on himself, insisting that correspondence be answered and guests received, in
                    fulfillment of the expected role, even when he suffered pain and ill health in the months before his
                        death.122 To this man even the cruelties of slavery could be extended one
                    additional generation in order that the problem should be dispensed of in "the right
                    way"—through law and within a constitutional scheme that respected property
                    rights, majority will, and limited government.
            Jefferson's almost compulsive concern for order and rationality were not solely a function of his
                    personality, for each was a tenet of the Newtonian system. The acceptance of absolute truths derived
                    from order and rationality influenced popular thought on natural science, music, architecture, and
                    politics. Jefferson simply adhered to these precepts with more dedication or
                    "principle" than most. Ellis emphasizes Jefferson's attachment to ideals that
                    compelled him to adopt deductive reasoning by which certain inviolable moral truths predetermined
                    the resolution of specific issues.123
            
            Jefferson's practice of law also reinforced his natural proclivity for order and rationality. As
                    Stephen Conrad has noted, Jefferson never really turned away from the law, even though his active
                    practice 
                  
                     117 Jan Lewis, "The Blessings of Domestic Society: Thomas
                            Jefferson's Family and the Transformation of American Politics," in Jeffersonian Legacies, Onuf, 109. See also Peterson,
                            "Afterward," 460.
                  
                     118 Wood, "Trials and Tribulations," 409.
                  
                     119
                            Ibid.
                  
                     120 Douglas L. Wilson, "Jefferson's Library," in Thomas Jefferson: A Reference Biography, Peterson, 161.
                  
                     121 Jefferson encouraged Polly "to play on the harpsichord,
                            to draw, to dance, to read, and talk French and such things as…. will make you
                            more worthy of the love of your friends…. Remember too as a constant charge not
                            to go out without your bonnet because it will make you ugly and then we should not love you
                            so much." TJ to Mary Jefferson (Polly), September 20, 1785, in Jefferson Papers, XI, 348-49.
                  
                     122 Ellis, American Sphinx, 233.
                  
                     123
                            Ibid., 128-30.
               
                     ended in 1774.124 Jefferson always relied
                    heavily on the written law. The practice of law in America has long been a contest between lawyers
                    whose approach to cases is determined by the law and those who emphasize the facts. Do the facts
                    speak for themselves in calling for relief? Or rather, is the law the final arbiter in dispensing
                    justice regardless of the emotional response engendered by the facts? Accounts of Jefferson's law
                    practice indicate his emphasis on law as controlling the outcome of cases. He took the law as
                    doctrine and reasoned logically from general to specific instances in making legal arguments. Edmund 
                        Randolph
                     contrasted Jefferson's style with Patrick Henry's when he commented that, "Mr.
                    Jefferson drew copiously from the depths of the law, Mr. Henry from the recesses of the human
                        heart."125 Men such as Jefferson, who envisioned a future society
                    of greater justice, yet were committed to the rule of law as the only means of its attainment, could
                    be frustrated by the restraining effect of law. Changes in law depended upon changes in popular
                    sentiment, and accordingly law was sometimes slow to embrace other ideals.
            Perhaps no endeavor in Jefferson's life is more indicative of his desire to do things "the
                    right way" than his fifty-four-year commitment to building 
                        Monticello
                    . During this time, Jefferson was always refining and reconstructing. Still, his passion
                    was not the process but the ideal end product. Rhys Isaac argues that historians reconstruct the
                    past by careful study of how people lived. He sees Jefferson the builder of 
                        Monticello
                     as "a quantifying, rationalizing taskmaster."126
                    Likewise for Jack McLaughlin humanity replicates itself in its architecture. By looking at the
                    building process one can see the man revealed in "a deep and unaccommodated way."
                    Jefferson, according to McLaughlin, left a detailed portrait of himself in 
                        Monticello
                    , etched in timber, brick, plaster, and paint.127
            
            In 
                        Monticello
                     Jefferson's acceptance of absolutes is evident from design to finishing touches.
                    "Wythe… reinforced Jefferson's belief that the models for a pure architecture
                    had been cast in concrete by the Romans," McLaughlin notes, "and formulated
                    mathematically—with the finality of a papal bull—by the sixteenth-century
                    master, Andrea Palladio."128 Jefferson's home was to be more than a
                    residence; it was also to be a model for his society and a reflection of the absolute values by
                    which he lived his life. McLaughlin's study of Jefferson as builder lays out the values and thought
                    processes of the man: 
                  
                     124 Conrad, "Rights Talk," 273. Mayer says that
                            Jefferson was referred to as "one of the finest legal minds on either side of the
                            Atlantic." Mayer, Constitutional Thought, ix.
                  
                     125 Malone, Jefferson the Virginian, 69-70.
                  
                     126 Rhys Isaac, "The First 
                                Monticello
                            ," in Jeffersonian Legacies, Onuf, 93.
                  
                     127 Jack McLaughlin, Jefferson and 
                                    Monticello
                                : The Biography of a Builder (
                                New York
                            , 1988), vii-viii.
                  
                     128
                            Ibid., 41.
               
                    
                    
                        These early drawings and the voluminous Notes that accompany them reveal
                            much about the Jefferson personality. They are of a kind with his other known character
                            traits: self-discipline, his insistence on personal privacy, his need to save and account
                            for everything—money, books, records, facts. Even his choice of the law as a
                            profession was a measure of his desire for an ordered social and political universe made
                            permanent by rationally ordained statutes. He became a revolutionary in part because of what
                            he perceived to be the crown's breach of the integrity of the English legal system. This was
                            not simply a political or ethical decision on his part; in taxing the colonies without
                            representation, Parliament denied the validity of his very personality, of everything that
                            he was. His architectural drawings are symbolic of his kind of compulsive personality. Lines
                            are executed mechanically with rule and compass, to precise scale. Measurements are carried
                            out to four or five decimal places, an absurdity in the building trades where carpenters and
                            bricklayers are often lucky if they can keep to the inch rather than the ten-thousandth of
                            an inch. For Jefferson, those measurements were not simply practical means to an end,
                            instructions to an artisan; they were mathematical absolutes that recorded universal
                                verities.128
                  
                     Jefferson's insistence on exact measurement and his obsessive attention to detail betray
                    not a rationality predicated on the practical or the expedient, but a quest for the ideal. When
                    confronted by a choice of practical utility or abstract aesthetics, Jefferson invariably chose the
                    aesthetic and then tried to satisfy the practical within that aesthetic construct. McLaughlin
                    observes that "he was a man who demanded of his life the same symmetry he found in the
                    Newtonian universe he believed in so explicitly." Jefferson assembled data on so many
                    points of interest that McLaughlin concludes that it was something of an end in
                    itself—"a way of fitting these meaningless bits into a rational system was a way
                    of structuring and ordering his personal universe."130
            
            Jefferson arranged the thousands of books in his personal library according to a scheme established
                    by Francis Bacon and used by Jean LeRond d'Alembert in the Encyclopedia. It was a scheme that
                    premised organization on the faculties of the mind. Memory, reason, and imagination became history,
                    philosophy, and fine arts. Over 6,700 volumes in Jefferson's home were organized into categories and
                    subcategories of classification.131 Perhaps even more compulsively, he counted
                    how many peas fit in a pint jar so that he knew precisely how many pints of seed to store for the
                    next spring's planting.132
            
            In both the most personal and public moments of his life, Jefferson's behavior expressed a fervent
                    commitment to principle and order.133 He was comfortable when order imposed a
                    restraining influence 
                  
                     129
                            Ibid., 58.
                  
                     130
                            Ibid., 35-36, 22.
                  
                     131 Wilson. "Jefferson's Library." 171-75.
                  
                     132 McLaughlin, Jefferson and 
                                    Monticello
                                
                     , 22.
                  
                     133 Recent scientific research suggests a sexual liaison between
                            Jefferson and Sally Hemings, his deceased wife's half sister and a slave at 
                                Monticello
                            . Accepting this assertion as true, for the sake of argument, Jefferson's
                            silence on this issue, in fact his denial of it, can be seen as another instance of his
                            attempt to maintain an ideal image of himself consistent with his own perceptions of
                            principle and honor.
               
                    
                    
                  WEST FRONT OF MONTICELLO (C. 1803)
                  
                     
                                Massachusetts
                             Historical society 
                        Boston,
                                    Massachusetts
                     .
               
                    
                    
                  JEFFERSON'S POPLAR FOREST (1806),
                                FOREST, VIRGINIA
                  
                  Thomas Jefferson Papers, University of 
                                Virginia
                             Library, 
                        Charlottesville,
                                    Virginia
                     .
                in his life, perceiving it as rational and natural. Yet the order to which he subscribed
                    was derived from broader principles. Architectural drawings conformed to the pure absolutes of
                    mathematical symmetry; library organization conformed to the logic of man's thought processes; even
                    the retention of pea seeds recognized the virtue of frugality.
            Jefferson's passion for ideas and his conviction that ideas formed the basis of social order made it
                    extremely unlikely that he could perpetuate the cruel institution of slavery and rationalize its
                    continuation if he believed that it was inconsistent with his political beliefs and their
                    expression, at least in part, in the government of his society. As John Lauritz Larson notes,
                    Jefferson at times became a victim of his own ideological rhetoric. Fearing the
                    "monarchist" leanings of the Federalist uses of government power, he emphasized
                    his preferences for limited government, eventually restricting his own abilities, and those of his
                    followers, to serve the public good.134
            
            Jefferson's ideology did eventually trap him within a system in which he was forced to accept a
                    tragic consequence rather than to encourage a restructuring of a society that had come to accept his
                    conceptions of government power and social law. Slavery was an evil, but its eradication could have
                    been a greater evil, not only in the social, political, or economic effects of abolition, but in the
                    restructuring 
                  
                     134 John Lauritz Larson, "Jefferson's Union and the Problem
                            of Internal Improvements," in Jeffersonian Legacies, Onuf,
                            340-69.
               
                     of the government necessary to effectuate it. The abolition of
                    slavery would have necessitated an expansion of governmental authority to legislate the social
                    arrangements, property values, and moral construction of the society. This would have been
                    inconsistent with Jefferson's political ideology. Jefferson could never have endorsed the growth of
                    federal government authority necessary to dictate political change to the states. Neither would he
                    have tolerated state officials determining public policy contrary to the wishes of the majority or
                    judges pronouncing positions contrary to established law. Once established, laws on slavery could
                    not be changed by the moral opposition of a political or legal elite. Morton Horowitz contends that
                    the common law in eighteenth-century America was a fixed body of law applied to individual cases and
                    that judges could not use the law to effect social change.135 Jefferson decried
                    the growing power of nineteenth-century judges in developing legal positivism from the bench. His
                    legal ideal remained the eighteenth-century model. For either a judge or a governor to assume the
                    position of an enlightened leader, abolishing slavery in the best interests of the society and
                    contrary to popular sentiment, was antithetical to the constitutional republicanism that defined
                    Jefferson's political ideology. Any change in a state's position on slavery would have to come
                    through its legislature and then accord a due respect for the property rights of slaveholders.
                    Jefferson's proposals on abolition did just that; he recognized, however, that they would not gain
                    popular acceptance in his lifetime.
            The question then remains: given this set of beliefs, what could the historical actor have been
                    expected to do with regard to a certain issue? In the case of Jefferson and slavery, given the man's
                    political ideology premised on the primacy of law, limited government, states' rights, property
                    rights, and majority rule, there was little more he could have done to abolish the hated
                    institution. Had he tried Jefferson would have breached one of his basic beliefs, which would have
                    proved to be more inconsistent with his ideology than his position of waiting for the next
                    generation to abolish slavery.
            In this context then, Jefferson's position on slavery is not the great example of his intellectual
                    inconsistency but rather of his ideological consistency. Furthermore, the legal and ideological
                    factors that limited Jefferson also limited the nation. Ironically, the most democratic country on
                    earth was the last western nation to abolish slavery, perhaps because of its democracy. Enfranchised
                    Americans never used their political voice to express enough hatred of slavery to eliminate it. When
                    widespread emancipation did occur, it came not through normal political means but by unprecedented
                    use of the president's 
                  
                     135 Horowitz, Transformation of American Law, 1, 8.
                            Jack Rakove cites William Nelson in confirmation of this position: "Americans of
                            the prerevolutionary period expected their judges to be automatons who mechanically applied
                            immutable rules of law to the facts of each case." Rakove, Original Meanings,
                        300.
               
                     powers as commander-in-chief to act in the best security
                    interests of the nation. By avoiding the very legal and ideological factors that Jefferson and his
                    generation faced, Abraham Lincoln testified to the substantial impediment that they posed to more
                    drastic action when civil war did not provide a constitutional alternative.
         
         
         
            Sphinx without a Riddle: Joseph Ellis and the Art of Jefferson Biography
            
                    George M. Curtis III
                    ∗
                
            It would be interesting to find out when and why American readers begin their historical
                    acquaintances with Thomas Jefferson. There is certainly no shortage of opportunities when one
                    considers the enormous flock of books about the man. Given this flood of ink, it is reasonable to
                    suspect that very many Americans, academic and otherwise, do indeed search out Jefferson at some
                    time or other. I am no exception, although I may have been a bit late. Not until well along in my
                    graduate studies of the American Revolution did Jefferson become more than a name for schools. Even
                    then it was almost accidental, for I decided one year to give Lester Cappon's edition of the letters
                    of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson to my father as a present.1 He read them with
                    great interest and thus began a conversation between father and son that lasted for the rest of our
                    years together, my father always siding vigorously with Jefferson and I usually with Adams.
                    Coincidentally, my historical interests would take me to 
                        Virginia
                    's revolution. In this way, Jefferson soon became part of a larger narrative, a story
                    that has served to sustain those first conversations with my father. I suspect there is a private
                    side that explains at least part of what brings every biographer to Jefferson, and Joseph Ellis's
                    history with Jefferson certainly has its own marks of distinctiveness, elements that he does not
                    mask.
            Like so many serious students of American history before him, Ellis took up study of Jefferson with
                    mixed emotions. In mitigation he brings with him previous biographical ventures where he has limned
                    many of the most showy American founders.2 Ellis, like Jefferson, calls 
                        Virginia
                     his place of beginning. Ellis, like Jefferson's famous critic, Henry Adams, begins his
                    history of Jefferson after having spent years concerned more immediately with the affairs of the
                    Adams family. And Ellis, like many American historians and biographers 
                  
                     ∗ George M. Curtis III is senior fellow, Liberty Fund,
                            Inc., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, and professor of history, 
                                Hanover
                             College, 
                                Hanover
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Lester J. Cappon, ed., The Adams-Jefferson Letters: The
                                Complete Correspondence between Thomas Jefferson and Abigail and John Adams (2
                            vols., 
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1959).
                  
                     2 Joseph J. Ellis, Passionate Sage: The Character and
                                Legacy of John Adams (
                                New York
                            , 1993) and Ellis, After the Revolution: Profiles of Early American
                                Culture (
                                New York
                            , 1979).
               
                     before him, approaches Jefferson with some trepidation,
                    acknowledging at the same time that those before him who were so intrepid as to enter the home
                    grounds of the historical Jefferson were certainly not afraid to take risks. Such an enterprise is
                    comparable in a metaphoric sense to many immigrants who ventured out from all over the globe seeking
                    a home in a country whose character has become so intimately connected with Jefferson. Ellis, again
                    like so many immigrants, depends heavily upon those who came before, those pioneer biographers
                    starting with Henry Adams and later Dumas Mal-one and Merrill Peterson.3 While
                    acknowledging his indebtedness to these predecessors, Ellis intentionally strikes out for new
                    territory. His journey, while occasionally bright with future promise, exhibits also the
                    difficulties of a complex landscape for which no adequate maps exist. There is finally the question
                    of destinations—considerations of whom Ellis is writing for and why he seeks the audience
                    that he does and considerations of Ellis's construction of a distinctive and new Jefferson.
            In his earlier character study of John Adams, Ellis showed a willingness to build upon previous
                    treatments of that neglected founder. It is significant that both Adams and Jefferson have the
                    benefit of prodigious editorial projects, each in its own way a distinguished contribution to the
                    understanding of the life and times of the subject. That Ellis has made a close study of older
                    biographies is clear, if for no other reason than that throughout the Jefferson biography he
                    exhibits two commendable restraints. First, he avoids hagiography, and second, he refrains from
                    precious criticism of hagiographers. Also, he chose to publish at a propitious moment in
                    Jeffersonian time, for 1992 marked the two hundred-fiftieth anniversary of Jefferson's birth, an
                    occasion that provoked a good deal of celebration, both scholarly and popular. Jefferson's own
                    academy, the University of 
                        Virginia
                    , held a commemorative conference, the papers of which were later edited by Peter Onuf
                    as Jeffersonian Legacies.
               4 At the other end of the spectrum,
                    from the eye of the popularizer Ken Burns came the 
                  
                     3 Henry Adams, History of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America During the First Administration of Thomas Jefferson
                            (1889-1890; reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1986); Dumas Malone, Jefferson and His Time (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1948-1981); Merrill D. Peterson, Thomas Jefferson and the New
                                Nation: A Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1970). For an essay describing the creation of Malone's six-volume biography
                            see Merrill D. Peterson, "Dumas Malone: An Appreciation," William and Mary Quarterly, 3rd. series, NXLV (April, 1988), 237-52.
                  
                     4 Peter S. Onuf, ed., Jeffersonian Legacies (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1993). For a survey of these essays and a commentary on current
                            Jeffersonian scholarship see Peter Onuf, "The Scholars' Jefferson," William and Mary Quarterly, 3rd. series, L (October, 1993), 671-99. An
                            earlier and still important collection of disparate biographical essays about Jefferson
                            appeared in Merrill D. Peterson, ed., Jefferson: A Profile (
                                New York
                            , 1967). See also Merrill D. Peterson, Thomas Jefferson: A
                                Reference Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1986).
               
                    
                    
                  JEFERSON'S PLAN FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
                  
                  Reproduced from Roy J. Honeywell, The Educational Work of Thomas Jefferson (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1931), Opposite 78.
               
                     film, Thomas Jefferson (1997).5 So Ellis's
                    biography arrived at an auspicious moment, a time cluttered with remembrance and so a time that
                    served also as an enticement for any uncommon voice, the better to be heard in this new outpouring
                    of Jeffersoniana. Given this context, the winning of the National Book Award by American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson represented a notable endorsement of
                    Ellis's biographical art.6
            
            Not at all surprising, these studies and celebrations of Jefferson have in themselves become the
                    occasion for commentary, some in the form of reviews.7 This recent wave almost
                    moves a person to wonder if Jefferson biographical moments are themselves part of a more permanent
                    rhythm of American history. Whether this be something to ponder, the fact is that any person in
                    search of the historical Jefferson is faced with a wealth and a welter of commentaries. After all is
                    said, selection remains a problem for many readers who begin with serious questions about this much
                    remembered man. Even for Ellis, selection poses a major problem. Defining his own methodology as
                    "cinematic," he claims that "another full-scale, multivolume
                    narrative" would be redundant. So Ellis selects what he believes were "the
                    propitious moments" to reveal "the character" of Thomas Jefferson.8 Of course, Ellis, whether he realizes it or not, was hardly the first to
                    approach Jefferson in bits and pieces. Henry Adams actually endorsed such a methodology when he
                    claimed that Jefferson "possessed a character which showed itself in acts."9
            
            The five special stopping places for Ellis are Jefferson's participation in the second Continental
                    Congress, which culminated in the drafting of the Declaration of Independence; his tour as
                    ambassador to 
                        France
                    , 1784-1789; his years "in exile" at 
                        Monticello
                    , 1794-1797; his first term as president, 1801-1804; and his final years, 1816-1826. As
                    matters turn out, the details of Jefferson's life trump Ellis as more and more of these selected
                    "moments" become filled with connecting stories that fit equally as well into
                    other periods of Jefferson's life. So in the end, each moment is really a series of moments crafted
                    to fit together in a seamless narrative that promises to reveal a historical Jefferson as Ellis
                    contends none of his predecessors has managed to do. The chosen segments soon take on the appearance
                    of contrivance, sometimes artfully charming and at other times literary occasion for what appears to
                    be the masking of an incomplete biographical narrative. Introducing and concluding these
                    well-crafted moments is an 
                  
                     5 Thomas Jefferson, prod, and dir. Ken Burns (Florentine Films, 1997).
                  
                     6 Joseph J. Ellis, American Sphinx: The Character of
                                Thomas Jeferson (
                                New York
                            , 1997).
                  
                     7 See Jack Rakove, "Jefferson Perceived," Journal of the Early Republic, XVII (Winter, 1997), 677-85.
                  
                     8 Ellis, American Sphinx, ix.
                  
                     9 Adams, First Administration, 126.
               
                     extended commentary on the world of Jeffersoniana. Here Ellis
                    outlines the contemporary rush of popular and scholarly interest in his subject. This discussion
                    also serves as stage for Ellis's personal reflection on the meaning of Jefferson in American history
                    and his declaration to the reader of how he intends to treat both Jefferson and this most recent
                    "Jeffersonian Surge." Announcing that he strives to be in the company of the best
                    Jefferson commentators who preceded him, Ellis realizes that his mission is delicate indeed, for
                    Jefferson's real story is distinct and separate from the static living image on permanent display at
                    the Jefferson Memorial, Mount Rushmore, and 
                        Monticello
                    . He acknowledges that "the Jefferson image is safely enshrined in the national
                    memory." So Ellis believes that "it is safe to get to know him as he really
                    was." Having asserted this intention, which many will greet as a clarion call to
                    objectivity, Ellis veers. As he limns his portrait, he seeks what he views as the most revealing
                    features. Ellis emphasizes that "the essence of his story" ought to show that
                    "unlike 
                        Washington
                    , he was never a legend in his own time, always a controversial figure who combined
                    great depth with great shallowness, massive learning with extraordinary naivete, piercing insights
                    into others with daunting powers of self-deception. His flaws, in other words, should be just as
                    interesting as his strengths, and the way they interacted with one another, as he, like all of us,
                    managed his way through life, not his inexorable growth toward greatness."10 Henry Adams would not necessarily have disagreed with this, but he might have suggested
                    that such a disclaimer was a useless stab. Adams cast the question of the relation of Americans to
                    Jefferson differently: "This sandy face, with hazel eyes and sunny aspect; this loose,
                    shackling person; this rambling and often brilliant conversation, belonged to the controlling
                    influences of American history, more necessary to the story than three-fourths of the official
                    papers, which only hid the truth."11
            
            When historians select, however, even in so pleasantly plausible a way as Ellis does, there arises a
                    problem of trust, challenging readers to know enough even before starting to secure an intellectual
                    beachhead from which to operate. Often the sands on that beach are shifting—intellectual
                    fashions change; historical reputations ebb and flow; and the huckstering blurbs of booksellers'
                    advice are often mostly wind. After his death on July 4, 1826, a memorable anniversary that marked
                    the exit of John Adams as well, Jefferson has become a special magnet for ensuing legions of
                    historical admirers and detractors. Through the years various other famous Americans also became
                    cottage industries in a historical profession often mindful of the need 
                  
                     10 Ellis, American Sphinx, 22-23.
                  
                     11 Adams, First Administration, 127.
               
                     to construct a national memory.12 Beyond
                    all of this industry Jefferson has maintained an elevated place, in its own way not unlike the site
                    he selected for his home, adroitly removed from the fray. Why this has been so becomes a lesson in
                    the history of American history, some cynics going so far as to suggest that if "the
                    American Sphinx" did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him.
            In an irony Jefferson might have enjoyed, he has become a lightning rod of a distinctive sort in the
                    late twentieth century. The post-World War II launching of the Jefferson Papers, not even half
                    complete after a half-century in business, served to prompt a peculiarly bifurcated course for the
                    history of American history. On the one side grew up a new community, largely outside of the
                    established groves of the academy, a community of scholars where entire professional careers were
                    given over to the preservation and publication of the letters and papers of great individuals or
                    special subjects such as abolition of slavery, ratification of the Constitution, and the first
                    federal congress. Federal funding was critical in sustaining this grand departure. On the other
                    side, academic historians, newly divorced from close association with documentary editors, embraced
                    historical writing that became more interpretive with the passing of the years, reflected in part by
                    the gradual disappearance in the classroom of history courses organized around and driven by primary
                    sources.
            The historical memory of Thomas Jefferson has been both beneficiary and victim of this development.
                    With the letterpress, film, and digital publication of records came exaggerated expectations that
                    historical writing would be grounded securely upon the evidence. Interestingly, documentary
                    publication served simultaneously to loosen the speculative urges as more and more historians
                    engaged in the art of the extended essay—or history as argument. In time, the scholarship
                    of American history became bifurcated as the monuments to archival memory struggled to coexist with
                    a Babel of increasingly arcane studies that suited the whims of the currently fashionable.
            It is a daunting task for anyone who sets out to get a hand around the subject of Jefferson in
                    American history. The number of people who have tried gives pause. Some have compiled bibliographies
                    of secondary sources; collections of primary sources also abound; and then there are the studies of
                    the studies. Here readers have been treated to Merrill Peterson's The Jefferson Image
                        in the American Mind (1960). Peterson recognized something important in historiography
                        
                  
                     12 Without the visual reminders of unearned status that are displayed
                            in a monarchy or aristocracy, Americans have invented private associations to
                            institutionalize the memory of designated individuals or groups of individuals. There are
                            several examples, including the 
                                Plymouth
                             Society; the Society of Cincinnatus; the Daughters of the American Revolution;
                            the 
                                Mount Vernon
                             Ladies Association; the Abraham Lincoln Association; and, of course, the Thomas
                            Jefferson Memorial Foundation.
               
                    
                    
                  BUST OF JEFFERSON BY JEAN-ANTOINE HOUDON (1789)
                  The Gilder Lehrman Collection on Deposit at the Pierpont Morgan Library,
                                    
                        New York, New York
                     . GLC 3106.
               
                     that served as a backdrop for understanding why so many
                    Americans over such a long period of time felt somehow compelled to come to terms with Jefferson as
                    well as other founders. During the Revolution, Americans did away with both monarchy and birthright
                    aristocracy. Interestingly, Jefferson himself was politically most assertive in this stripping away
                    of the dead hand of artificial privilege. Simultaneously, Americans yearned for icons worthy of
                    their new order; so the founding fathers in general and Jefferson in particular soon became the
                    objects of historical apotheosis. Once this happened and as Americans continued in the twentieth
                    century to expand the geography of history, the image of Jefferson worked its way into virtually
                    every historical consideration of the Revolution and the new nation.13 It is
                    into this modern minefield of scholarly complexity that Ellis has journeyed in search of his
                    "chief quarry," one, he believed, that had eluded his predecessors in what many
                    considered the most important challenge ever to face American historians— making sense of
                    Thomas Jefferson.14
            
            In human action there are masks and there are fictions. Some of these masks and fictions are
                    carefully designed for the construction of useful objects. Manners, for example, are often masks of
                    careful social design, as are corporations in the law. Fictions serve clever humorists as well as
                    those caretakers of the law who craft special cases in property and tort to accommodate the
                    tradition of legal forms and social progress simultaneously. There has always been a dark side as
                    well. Here slavery has ranked as a most ingeniously pernicious mask in the law, the intentional
                    construct of something naturally wrong. Robert Penn 
                        Warren
                     wondered if the same might be said for the autobiographical epitaph, particularly that
                    composed and ordered by Jefferson, an epitaph that may be the most famous in American history:
                        
                        Here was buried
                        Thomas Jefferson
                        Author of the Declaration of American Independence
                        Of the Statute of 
                                Virginia
                             for religious freedom
                        And Father of the University of 
                                Virginia
                            .
                    
                    
                        Warren
                     did not shrink from noticing that Jefferson was neither the sole author nor the only
                    father. Warren is one of the very few who have ventured to comment upon this Jefferson fiction, most
                    biographers choosing instead to view the inscription through the prism of the romantic ideal.
                    Ellis's portrayal of Jefferson is centered on different polarities than those conjured up by
                    fictions and masks. According to Ellis, Jefferson masked himself from himself, finally unable to
                    face 
                  
                     13 Merrill D. Peterson, The Jefferson Image in the
                                American Mind (
                                New York
                            , 1962).
                  
                     14 Ellis, American Sphinx, xii.
               
                    
                    
                  ENGRAVING OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA BY BENJAMIN TANNER (1826)
                  Thomas Jefferson Papers, University of 
                                Virginia
                             Library, 
                        Charlottesville,
                                    Virginia
                     .
               
                     the realities of the world around him, seeking comfort in the
                    icy grandeur of his carefully crafted ideals. Ellis's portrait of Jefferson's character focuses upon
                    the contest that raged within, the contest between the ideal and the real. This was on exhibit
                    whether the subject was executive authority in the person of a king or a president, the authority of
                    the government to address the power that came from wealth, or the authority of one individual over
                    the life of another, free and slave. Ellis believes that this contest of Jefferson's was fated to
                    end in disappointment. The romantic aspirations of his better self were destined to be defeated by
                    outsiders who employed the world view of Thomas Hobbes as their weapon.15
            
            The first Ellis moment, "
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1775-76," culminates with a discussion of the Declaration of Independence.
                    Using quotations from previous Jefferson historians and others as epigraphs for each chapter,
                    Ellis's evocative and trenchant choice for this segment comes from Malone: "It is easier to
                    reach a confident opinion about the sort of man he was in 1776 than to do so for 1793 or
                    1800." Not only will Ellis test this enigmatic proposition in coming chapters, he also uses
                    this chapter to establish the central features of Jefferson's character. In short, this is the
                    critical moment for the biographer's art. None will doubt the importance of what the biographer
                    chooses to remember as he sets about establishing this foundation. Given the richness of the various
                    sources available to Ellis, the view of Jefferson in 1776 can also be seen in those features of
                    Jefferson's character and activities that Ellis chose to omit. Since this study departs from the
                    biographical genre known as "life and times," the biography becomes, at least in
                    part, an exercise in the art of concealment, all in the name of asserting as Ellis does that his
                    selective construction reveals historical truth. If this appears oxymoronic, welcome to a world
                    where "fiction" has entered the vocabulary as an acceptable fashion in historical
                    writing, and deconstruction—or the new relativism—is considered intellectually
                    safe from the sort of treatment that wits such as H. L. Mencken or Mark Twain might have savored.
            With the Declaration of Independence as the destination, Ellis views much of what transpired before
                    as prologue. The young Jefferson was both an inward person, one who might be viewed as a loner
                    today, and a political idealist, one who attached himself with great conviction to the
                    Enlightenment's faith in reason.16 Ellis claims that this combination of
                    characteristics provoked a compelling life-long 
                  
                     15 Robert Penn 
                                Warren
                            , Brothers to Dragons: A Tale in Verse and Voices (1953;
                            reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1979).
                  
                     16 For an interesting contrast see Andrew Burstein, The
                                Inner Jefferson: Portrait of a Grieving Optimist (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1995). Analyzing the epistolary Jefferson, Burstein suggests that
                            Jefferson's letters indicate a person who "spent his life reaching out to
                            others." Burstein, Inner Jefferson, 116.
               
                     conflict within Jefferson. Insofar as he was a private person
                    who believed passionately in the ideal, he approached what Adam Smith described in A
                        Theory of Moral Sentiments (1759) as a "man of system." By this Smith
                    meant a person who "is apt to be very wise in his own conceit, and is often so enamored
                    with the supposed beauty of his own ideal plan of government, that he cannot suffer the smallest
                    deviation from any part of it." Smith, of course, worried that such a person tended to see
                    human beings as things to be manipulated, like so many pieces on a "chess
                        board."17
            
            Starting with the first chapter and continuing throughout his study, Ellis contends with the
                    historiographically heretical notion of a Jefferson inclined toward something other than individual
                    liberty. Beginning with his analysis of the Declaration, continuing later with Jefferson's reception
                    of the French Revolution, and culminating with the evolution of Jefferson's concepts of both Native
                    Americans and Africans, Ellis develops this interpretation. Ellis probes the implications of the
                    deep conflict caused by Jefferson's character with considerable sympathy and discernment toward both
                    Jefferson and Jefferson's biographers. But probe he does as when he concludes the discussion of the
                    Declaration by suggesting it "represented yet another formulation of the Jeffersonian
                    imagination." As much as Jefferson was indebted to John Locke or the political philosophers
                    of the Scottish Enlightenment for conceptions of the ideal society,
            
                    the urge to embrace such an ideal society came from deep inside Jefferson himself. It was the
                        vision of a young man projecting his personal cravings for a world in which all behavior was
                        voluntary and therefore all coercion unnecessary, where independence and equality never
                        collided, where the sources of all authority were invisible because they had already been
                        internalized. Efforts on the part of scholars to determine whether Jefferson's prescriptive
                        society was fundamentally individualistic or communal can never reach closure, because within
                        the Jeffersonian utopia such choices do not need to be made. They reconcile themselves
                        naturally…. Jefferson's political vision was more radical than liberal, driven as it
                        was by a youthful romanticism unwilling to negotiate its high standards with an imperfect
                            world.18
               
                
            As Ellis approaches what he considers to be Jefferson's center, he presents a historical player
                    doomed to disappointment, if not failure. Perhaps this is more a reflection of Ellis's own
                    conception of the destiny of the American Revolution, interesting but largely irrelevant in a
                    biography seeking to reveal Jefferson's character.
            
               
                  17 Adam Smith, The Theory of Moral Sentiments (1759;
                        reprint, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 1976), 380-81. Historians do not agree on this subject. In Thomas Jefferson and the New Nation, Peterson referred to Jefferson as a
                        "philosopher-statesman," asserting that "he was distrustful of
                        philosophical systems generally-they were prisons of the mind. Thought with him was an
                        instrument for reshaping life, not for reflecting it in some grand cosmic design."
                        Peterson, Thomas Jefferson, 45-46. Forrest McDonald opposed this view, stating
                        that Jefferson had achieved the construction of an ideology, "a system of values and a
                        way of looking at things." Forrest McDonald, The Presidency of Thomas
                            Jefferson (Lawrence, Kans., 1976), 161.
               
                  18 Ellis, American Sphinx, 59.
            
            
            Some may find elements of this presentation disingenuous, as if Ellis had tried to have things both
                    ways. Others might chime in with calls for Ellis to give better notice to earlier biographical and
                    monographic studies of the early years. Jefferson as well left some hints in an unpublished
                    autobiography, a personal history he began during January, 1821, "for the information of my
                    family," a major writing task never finished and a source that Ellis does not emphasize.
                    The autobiography reveals two remarkable stones about Jefferson and the coming of the Revolution,
                    the actual apprenticeship for Jefferson's contributions to the Continental Congress in 1775 and
                    1776. In recalling his tenure as a member of the House of Burgesses, Jefferson noted his dual role,
                    one as legislator and one as leader of the patriot cause.
            
                    I made one effort in that body for the permission of the emancipation of slaves, which was
                        rejected; and indeed, during the regal government, nothing liberal could expect success. Our
                        minds were circumscribed within narrow limits by an habitual belief that it was our duty to be
                        subordinate to the mother country in all matters of government…. The difficulties
                        with our representatives were of habit and despair, not of reflection & conviction.
                        Experience soon proved that they could bring their minds to rights on the first summons of their
                            attention.19
               
                
            Jefferson, in words that left obscured the extent of his own involvement, was commenting upon both
                    the state of political resistance and the new generation of leadership from 
                        Virginia
                    's established families who would take the American colonists to independence. In 
                        Virginia
                    , Jefferson was one of the central players in this stunning change, something that he
                    acknowledged in his autobiography when he wrote of 
                        Virginia
                    's reactions to the various statutory responses of Parliament to the 
                        Boston
                     Tea Party soon to be labeled in America as the Intolerable Acts. "The lead in
                    the house on these subjects being no longer left to the old members, Mr. Henry, R. H. Lee, Fr. L.
                    Lee, 3. or 4. other members, whom I do not recollect, and myself, agreeing that we must boldly take
                    an unequivocal stand… cooked up a resolution… for appointing the 1st Day of
                    June… for a day of fasting, humiliation & prayer."20
                    All of this heated stew they knew full well would force the governor to dissolve the legislature in
                    an act that became the signal for the beginning of the Revolution in 
                        Virginia
                    . While both Malone and Peterson emphasize this political moment, Ellis does not.
                    Interestingly, Ellis omits several key elements of Jefferson's political life as he passed so
                    quickly by the crucial years of 1774 and 1775.
            Even as a student at the College of William and Mary, Jefferson courted the politics of the capitol
                    as he dined with the governor. This interest may have been the fuel for his study of the law. It is
                    well 
                  
                     19 Thomas Jefferson (cited hereafter as TJ),
                            "Autobiography," in Thomas Jefferson: Writings, ed.
                            Merrill D. Peterson (
                                New York
                            , 1984), 5.
                  
                     20 TJ, "Autobiography," 7-8.
               
                     known that he never actively pursued a profession in the law,
                    at least not in the manner of some of his long-standing adversaries such as Patrick Henry and John
                    Marshall. Even so, his legal scholarship as well as several of his opinions for the General Court,
                    particularly on the question of the Fee Bill and court closure in 1774, reflected in significant
                    ways upon both his character and his politics.21 Some have argued that to
                    understand Jefferson's public career as well as his private character it is necessary to consider
                    his investment in the law. If Cicero and Montaigne served as his models in the world of letters for
                    addressing friends and acquaintances, then Coke, Black-stone, and the world of the Enlightenment
                    became mentors for his public career. Ellis fails to emphasize these inspirations as he probes the
                    distinctions between the public and private that Jefferson crafted so carefully.
            The law informed Jefferson's view of 
                        Virginia
                    's independence every bit as much as the historical views he presented in A
                        Summary View of the Rights of British America (1774), which Ellis contends served as the
                    primary backdrop for his draft of the Declaration. Once he completed his legal education and started
                    his appellate practice, Jefferson began to keep notes of certain cases in 
                        Virginia
                    's highest appellate court. Although these reports were not published until several
                    years after he died, he had earlier penned a short introduction that conveyed views central in his
                    political thought. Assembling notes on earlier decisions and compiling reports of cases between 1768
                    and 1772, Jefferson stated that his principle of selection was straightforward. He considered the
                    decisions of the General Court "on our peculiar laws" to have been "of
                    conclusive authority. As precedents, they established authoritatively the construction of our own
                    enactments, and gave them the shape and meaning, under which our property has been ever since
                    transmitted, and is regulated and held to this day."22 Aside from the
                    question of judicial interpretation of statutes, Jefferson selected special areas of the private law
                    of property and contracts that he believed were distinctive in 
                        Virginia
                    . It was within this context of 
                        Virginia
                    's legal and constitutional history that Jefferson believed he acted at the beginning of
                    the Revolution.23
            
            
               
                  21 Daniel J. Boorstin, The Lost World of Thomas
                        Jefferson (1948; reprint, 
                            Chicago
                        , 1981); Frank Dewey, Thomas Jefferson, Lawyer (
                            Charlottesville
                        , Va., 1986). Peterson did not reach this conclusion, holding that
                        "Jefferson's study of law led him to the Anglo-Saxon conception of English
                        liberty." Willard Sterne Randall argued that the many elements of Jefferson's legal
                        education in both English treatises and 
                            Virginia
                         case law entered without the Saxon filter into both his political beliefs and his
                        developing constitutional views. See Willard Sterne Randall, Thomas Jefferson: A
                            Life (
                            New York
                        , 1993). For an extensive treatment of Jefferson's legal education see David N.
                        Mayer, The Constitutional Thought of Thomas Jefferson (
                            Charlottesville
                        , Va., 1994), chapter 1.
               
                  22 TJ, Reports of Cases Determined in the General Court of 
                                Virginia
                            , from 1730 to 1740; and from 1768 to 1772 (1774; reprint, 
                            Charlottesville
                        , Va., 1903), 5.
               
                  23 Perhaps the earliest and still most telling commentary on this view of
                        American legal thought appeared in St. George Tucker's preface, "On the Study of
                        Law,"
            
            
            This perspective on the seminal influence of 
                        Virginia
                    's distinctive legal history goes a long way in explaining Jefferson's keen interest in
                    statutory codification. His association with Edmund Pendleton was particularly important. Early in
                    1774 Jefferson won a significant political and legal battle with this man who would take executive
                    charge of 
                        Virginia
                    's move to independence during the critical months after June, 1774. The General Court
                    requested both these men, one the young and unseasoned Jefferson and the other among the foremost
                    attorneys practicing in the General Court, to give opinions about whether the court could remain
                    open if the legislature failed to pass statutory rates for court fees. Jefferson argued that it
                    could not, and the court accepted his view. Although the evidence is incomplete, this may have
                    sealed both Jefferson's claim to leadership within the patriot party and a lasting friendship with
                    Pendleton. These alliances, forged as they were during the most trying of times, suggest a Jefferson
                    who was extraordinarily active, in some ways the perfect portrait of the new 
                        Virginia
                     leader whose apprenticeship in the hotbed of colonial resistance was careful and
                    purposeful. His engagements, at once politically risky and personally emphatic, suggest anything but
                    the image of the political outsider that Ellis conveys.24
            
            It is notable that of all the American patriots who embraced the tenets of the Enlightenment, none
                    was more learned in the law than Jefferson. Few could match the manner in which he joined his legal
                    scholarship with the politics of the Revolution.25 In his codification of the
                    laws of 
                        Virginia
                    , Jefferson's learning and political interests converged in the creation of a new legal
                    order, perhaps the most significant example of his unequaled capacity to fuse philosophy and
                    political action. In his study of Jefferson's constitutional thought, Mayer notes this achievement.
                    While not seeking to dispel the past out of hand, Jefferson sought to select those parts of the
                    statutory law and judge-made, or common, law that would be useful as 
                        Virginia
                     "adapted to our republican form of government: and, now that we had no
                    negatives of Councils, Governors, and Kings to restrain us from doing right, it should be corrected,
                    in all its parts, with a single 
                  in his edition of William Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of 
                                England
                             published in 
                                Philadelphia
                             in 1803. For a reprint of this essay see Clyde Wilson, ed., A View
                                of the Constitution of the 
                                    United States
                                 with Selected Writings (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1999), 1-17.
                  
                     24 For conflicting discussions of court closure see Dewey, Thomas Jefferson, 94-106, and George M. curtis, "The Role of the
                            Courts in the Making of the Revolution in 
                                Virginia
                            ," in The Human Dimension of Nation Making, ed. James
                            K. Martin (
                        Madison, Wisc
                     ., 1976), 121-47.
                  
                     25 For a documentary view of 
                                Virginia
                            's Revolution see William Van Schreeven et al., eds., Revolutionary 
                                    Virginia
                                
                      (7 vols., 
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1973-1983). The Pendleton correspondence can be found in Julian P. Boyd
                            et al., eds., The Papers of Thomas Jefferson (27 vols. to date, 
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1950-)
               
                     eye to reason, and the good of those for whose government it
                    was framed."26
            
            Thus this view of the law as a rational instrument for future use was clearly not simply an invention
                    of late nineteenth-century American jurists, given Jefferson's view of this legal imperative for the
                    Revolution in 
                        Virginia
                    . While not going so far as to label Jefferson "an instrumentalist" in
                    the modern sense of the term, Mayer does argue that Jefferson viewed this as a singular episode in 
                        Virginia
                     legal history. Ellis and others do not connect Jefferson's passionate and sustained
                    engagement in the statutory codification of 
                        Virginia
                     laws with his later comment to 
                        Madison
                     where he claimed that "the earth belongs in usufruct to the living."
                    Rather than looking at old family debts, as well as those of others who forged American
                    independence—an interpretation so many have argued over the years—Jefferson
                    may have been looking west, seeking to use the past in a consciously selective way so as to give
                    vent to the spontaneous energies of the present. After 1763 Americans came increasingly to see the
                    king in Parliament as an agent using the dead hand of the past to arrest the future that colonists
                    considered vital, hence the bill of particulars in the Declaration.27
            
            
               
                        Paris
                     is Ellis's next port of call for Jefferson. Jefferson's stint in that city offers Ellis
                    an opportunity once again to dwell on the context of his subject's career, just as he did when he
                    portrayed Jefferson's entry into 
                        Philadelphia
                    , replete with his retinue of slaves. In 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Jefferson had immediately found a home among friends from 
                        Virginia
                     and allies from other colonies. In 
                        Paris
                     there seemed to be no similar welcome, a circumstance even more poignant and trying for
                    someone recently widowed as Jefferson was. At least that is the impression Ellis conveys. Actually,
                    Jefferson was well acquainted with a number of notables, particularly the Marquis de 
                        Lafayette
                     and the Marquis de Chastellux, men whom he had befriended during the American war for
                    independence while he was governor of 
                        Virginia
                    .
            Jefferson's arrival in 
                        France
                     also affords Ellis the opportunity to glance back briefly at his term as governor,
                    which Ellis recalls 
                  
                     26 TJ, "Autobiography," 37.
                  
                     27 For a discussion of 
                                Virginia
                            's codification see Mayer, Constitutional Thought, 66-74. See
                            also Herbert Sloan, "The Earth Belongs in Usufruct to the Living," Jeffersonian Legacies, Onuf, 281-315. When Ellis took up the drafting of
                            the Declaration, he acknowledged the previous commentaries of Carl Becker, Julian Boyd,
                            Garry Wills, and John Hazelton while praising particularly Pauline Maier's new analysis,
                            Sacred Scriptures: Making the Declaration of Independence (1998). Ellis,
                                American Sphinx, 316n. Some of Jefferson's convictions about the
                            "release of energy" that the law promised anticipated the comments of
                            Wilhelm von Humboldt in his Limits of State Action, published in part in
                            1792 and later published as a whole by his brother Alexander. See Wilhelm von Humboldt, The Limits of state Action (1792; reprint, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1993). For a discussion of early instrumental views of the law see J.
                            Willard Hurst, Law and the Conditions of Freedom in Nineteenth-Century
                            America (
                        Madison, Wisc
                     ., 1956).
               
                     through Malone (whose biography according to Ellis "at
                    times takes on the tone of a defense attorney's brief for the accused").28 According to others, such as Emory Evans, Jefferson hardly needed the help, for Jefferson's
                    governorship, no matter how immediately painful to him personally, was a success and a very
                    important one at that. While contemporary critics emphasized how ill-prepared 
                        Virginia
                     was for the British invasion that marred the conclusion of Jefferson's tenure, too
                    often later observers overlooked the circumstances under which Jefferson accepted the position and
                    what it portended. To say nothing about how this constitutionally limited governor managed the
                    war-torn state during its darkest hours. Like Patrick Henry before him, Jefferson came to the office
                    from the legislature.29 These years as governor served as a trial that tempered
                    his views on the balance of powers as well as inspiration for his criticisms of the 
                        Virginia
                     constitution.
            In his Notes on the State of 
                            Virginia
                        
               , written in 1781 and published in 1785, Jefferson openly criticized the 1776 
                        Virginia
                     constitution for its failure to separate powers of government properly and for
                    incapacitating the governor at almost every important turn, particularly when it came to the
                    question of emergency powers. His experience as governor during the most critical hours of the war
                    became a signal chapter in the education of Jefferson as an executive. June 1, 1779, marked the
                    beginning of Jefferson's experience as an executive. From the moment he had entered the House of
                    Burgesses until his elevation to governor, he had been a part of the opposition to executive
                    authority. How he handled the difference between being out of power and in power has been a subject
                    of continuing interest. At the conclusion of a significant narrative of Jefferson's two years as
                    governor Peterson concluded:
            
                    His governorship could not be reckoned brilliant or even successful. Yet if faithfulness to duty,
                        courage in distress, calmness and forecast of mind, devotion to republican principles,
                        flexibility in the face of danger, and an enlarged view of 
                            Virginia
                        's place in the grand strategy of the Union—if these things were
                        important, then Jefferson was more deserving of praise than of blame. He certainly never claimed
                        more for himself.30
               
                
            With Jefferson in 
                        Paris
                    , Ellis introduces the terrible subject of slavery, one that hounds his historical
                    reputation even as birthday celebrations, popular films, and new studies of the Declaration continue
                    to embellish it. Ellis emphasizes Jefferson's commentary about slavery in the early French edition
                    of the Notes, for as matters turned out, this writing became a significant point
                    of departure. In the years 
                  
                     28 Ellis, American Sphinx, 316n.
                  
                     29 See Emory G. Evans, "Executive Leadership in 
                                Virginia
                            , 1776-1781: Henry, Jefferson, and Nelson," in Sovereign
                                States in an Age of Uncertainty, eds. Ronald Hoffman and Peter J. Albert (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1981), 185-225.
                  
                     30 Peterson, Thomas Jefferson, 239.
               
                     to come Jefferson never again publicly advanced such criticism
                    of the institution. It was here that he predicted a holocaust of racial war. "Indeed I
                    tremble for my country. When I reflect that God is just: that his justice cannot sleep for ever:
                    that considering numbers, nature and natural means only, a revolution of the wheel of fortune, an
                    exchange of situation, is among possible events; that it may become probable by supernatural
                        interference!"31 According to Ellis these prophetic words, not
                    unlike the introduction to the Declaration, took on a life of their own in Jefferson as well as in
                    American history. Ellis returns to the discussion of slavery during Jefferson's 
                        Monticello
                     years, 1794-1797. Here he lists the reasons that he believed persuaded Jefferson to
                    move from the forefront of reform to silence. In addition to the trepidation he felt after the
                    publication of the Notes, Jefferson came to believe that there was no practical solution for
                    emancipation, a view that he may have been attracted to in part because of his growing financial
                    dependence "upon the monetary value and labor of his slaves." The conclusion was
                    tragic for others, for "the net result of all these influences was a somewhat tortured
                    position on slavery that combined unequivocal condemnation of the institution in the abstract with
                    blatant procrastination whenever specific emancipation schemes were suggested."32
            
            Added to the melancholy of this discussion of slavery was Jefferson's history with Sally Hemings,
                    mulatto daughter of his father-in-law, a history that would hound him and his reputation from the
                    time James Callender published his account in 1802. Sadly, during the time following the publication
                    of this biography, Ellis became embroiled in the politics of impeachment, so much so that some
                    wondered openly if his activities regarding the DNA testing of certain descendants of Thomas
                    Jefferson in an effort to establish his paternity of Hemings's children were politically motivated.
                    If such allegations are true, Ellis's conversion to the belief that Jefferson sired at least one
                    child by Hemings will affect how readers view American Sphinx.33
            
            In his biography, having introduced the general subject of the intimate relation between Jefferson
                    and the Hemings family in the discussion of slavery at 
                        Monticello
                    , Ellis writes a special appendix, "A Note on the Sally Hemings
                    Scandal," in which he provides a brief historiographical summary. He concludes by stating,
                    "after five years mulling over the huge cache of evidence that does exist on the thought
                    and character of the historical Jefferson, I have concluded that the 
                  
                     31 Quoted in Ellis, American Sphinx, 87.
                  
                     32 Ellis, American Sphinx, 148.
                  
                     33 For an example of the public comments see Joseph J. Ellis,
                            "Founding Fatherhood," Wall Street Journal, February 28,
                            1999. See also Joseph J. Ellis, "Jefferson Fathered Slave Child," Nature,
                            January 7, 1999. In this article Ellis renounced the position that he took in his
                        biography.
               
                     likelihood of a liaison with Sally Hemings is remote,"
                    although he does give a nod to Fawn Brodie's introduction of the thesis that Jefferson and Hemings
                    shared love. He does not stress that many subsequently denied such a relation on the grounds that,
                    given Jefferson's character, the exploitive nature of slavery precluded such a history, one that
                    some suggested began during the exile at 
                        Monticello
                     and lasted until Jefferson's death.
            While slavery continues to serve as the leitmotif for so much contemporary scholarship, much of it
                    subjectively politicized, Ellis recognized it as only a part of the complex geography of Jefferson's
                    interior world, a subject that remained privately awful and publicly troubling. This has not been so
                    for others, particularly when current gossip now fueled by DNA science ignites a fury of personal
                    judgments from historians.14 Sadly lost in this contemporary outpouring is
                    notice of the shortcomings of Jefferson's instrumental view of the law to use human reason in
                    legislation for remedying the positive legal structures of slavery that persisted. Also lost in the
                    shuffle of new voices is a remembrance of Robert Penn 
                        Warren
                    's understanding of slavery as a human tragedy rather than a southern sin.
            The years in 
                        Paris
                     also give Ellis the opportunity to discuss Jefferson's relationships with women. He
                    begins with Jefferson's friendship with Abigail Adams and ends with his love for Maria Cosway. When
                    compared to more recent treatments of William Adams's The 
                        Paris
                     Years of Thomas Jefferson (1997) or John Kaminski's essay in Jefferson in
                        Love: The Love Letters between Thomas Jefferson and Maria Cosway (1999), Ellis's account
                    appears bloodless. Jefferson's famous and noteworthy letter to Cosway, "the head and the
                    heart" letter, receives short shrift in Ellis. This is strange in two ways. First, the
                    correspondence revealed the limits of Jefferson's Enlightenment mentality insofar as it reflected
                    accurately his segregation of reason and emotion. Second, Jefferson went to some pains, literally,
                    to save a copy of this letter, suggesting an archival consideration that Ellis could have probed for
                    signals issuing from Jefferson's interior, that precious space that Ellis throughout so fervently
                    seeks to expose.35
            
            Ellis's selection of Jefferson's tenure as secretary of state and his first term as president opens
                    again the question of the public man. He offers the traditional version of the origins of the
                    political party of Jefferson. In his portrait of Jefferson as president, Ellis spot-lights 
                  
                     34 See Fawn Brodie, Thomas Jefferson: An Intimate
                            History (
                                New York
                            , 1974) and John C. Miller, The Wolf by the Ears: Thomas Jefferson
                                and Slavery (
                                New York
                            , 1977). For recent treatments of Jefferson, Hemings, and slavery see Paul
                            Finkelman, "Jefferson and Slavery: 'Treason Against the Hopes of the
                            World,'" in Jeffersonian Legacies, Onuf, 181-221, and Annette
                            Gordon-Reed, Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings: An American Controversy (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1997).
                  
                     35 William H. Adams, The 
                                    Paris
                                 Years of Thomas Jefferson (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1997) and John P. Kaminski, ed., Jefferson in Love: The
                                Love Letters between Thomas Jefferson and Maria Cosway (
                        Madison, Wisc
                     ., 1999).
               
                     moments within moments, such as the fate of Jefferson's first
                    inaugural address. Normally, judgments of this kind are understood to be the special preserve for
                    argumentative historians who hunt for meaning in the popularity polls. Even so, to rank the first
                    inaugural address second after the Declaration as the most significant of Jefferson's public
                    statements is not only to give it great emphasis, but also, coming where it does in the middle of
                    the book, to shape the entire work. The context of Ellis's pronouncement has a troublesome ring to
                    it, for his Jefferson from the very first is the least public of all famous American public leaders,
                    a mark of his character that Ellis takes repeated trouble to establish. It becomes one of the
                    central ironies of the biography—that this most famous American, this man who became
                    almost a mythical metaphor for all that was noble in the American political experiment, was in fact
                    reclusive by inclination. Jefferson appeared to avoid the public spotlight as he labored to create
                    an epistolary archive that would assure his hold upon the American historical imagination. Ellis is
                    fond of emphasizing the hidden Jefferson, tantamount in some ways to suggesting that Jefferson
                    became for American public letters what Shakespeare became for all of English
                    literature—the eternal enigma. Or to put it common sensically, how can we know so much
                    about someone who remains so hidden from our view? Since the sphinxlike Jefferson has been so
                    central a part of the Peterson and Ellis viewpoint, the question arises whether this characteristic
                    is at least in part a figment of the biographer's imagination. Simultaneously, of course, American
                    historians have held that no one symbolized the distinctiveness of America more accurately than
                    Jefferson. So, ever since Henry Adams's sweeping portrait of the third president, readers have faced
                    a bifurcated image—on the one side forever hidden and on the other side a looming
                    presence of the quintessential American.36
            
            Also remaining obscure in Ellis's Jefferson is due consideration for the development of his legal and
                    constitutional thought, the very bedrock of his public character in the opinion of several
                    historians, including Malone and Mayer. Ellis's discussion of the first inaugural is the occasion
                    for a long offset quotation, a profound constitutional and legal claim of Jefferson's that stands
                    without any historical explication from Ellis. The passage is certainly famous: "I believe
                    this, on the contrary, the strongest government on earth. I believe it is the only one where every
                    man, at the call of the laws, would fly to the standard of the law, and would meet invasions of the
                    public order as his own personal concern."37 This is more than a
                    remembered echo of the revolutionary Virginian; this is also more than an assertion of 
                  
                     36 Ellis takes up the question of psychohistory, distancing himself
                            from such practitioners as Erik Erikson while reserving for himself the opportunity
                            "to make some occasional effort at explaining a decision or act without possessing
                            all the direct evidence one would like." Ellis, American Sphinx,
                            331.
                  
                     37 Quoted in ibid., 184.
               
                     faith in reason. It was a profound comment upon Jefferson's
                    faith in the new American citizenship, a citizenship founded upon a knowledge of the law and the
                    courage to defend "the laws" against invasion, a high point for his endorsement of
                    an instrumental view of the law.
            Embedded in Jefferson's observation was recognition of the genius of the American Revolution, the
                    distinctiveness of this American achievement that captured with precision the American idea of
                    volitional allegiance. In contrast, from time to time Ellis has Jefferson angrily objecting to the
                    views of his opposition for failing to sustain what Ellis refers to as "the true meaning of
                    the American Revolution."38 Aside from Ellis's willingness to use this
                    as a catchall for Jefferson's reaction to principled opposition, the interpretation lacks clarity,
                    for he never explains "the true meaning." More importantly, Ellis suggests by this
                    that Jefferson remained somehow stuck in 1776—that his constitutional and legal thought
                    was best characterized as static. This is in stark contrast to two separate and important Jefferson
                    events. The first came with Jefferson's willingness to be constitutionally flexible enough to
                    acquire 
                        Louisiana
                    , an action for which "the true meaning of the American Revolution"
                    might well have been silent. At least Jefferson himself admitted as much in an 1810 letter to John
                    Colvin that Ellis cites: "It is incumbent on those who accept great charges to risk
                    themselves on great occasions,… to lose our country by a scrupulous adherence to written
                    laws, would be to lose the law itself." In defining his presidency Jefferson viewed
                    executive uses of power as dependent in certain ways upon the exigencies of the moment, special
                    occasions when distinctive leaders had to take certain laws into their own hands in order to
                    preserve the law for others. Ellis states that Jefferson "violated his most cherished
                    political principles" in order to acquire territory, a question on which the Constitution
                    remained silent. On the contrary, Mayer, viewing this letter more appropriately from a
                    constitutional rather than a political perspective, emphasized the constitutional void. Mayer
                    noticed also Jefferson's subsequent uses of executive power, particularly in diplomatic affairs,
                    where he continued to hold to an expansive view of executive prerogative. It was Jefferson's
                    aspiration that 
                        Louisiana
                     should serve as an opportunity for a constitutional amendment that would provide a cure
                    for the original defect, not the violation Ellis poses.39
            
            The other constitutional question that Ellis must address is Jefferson's thoughts on the judiciary,
                    and here again the biographer distances himself from both Malone and Mayer. The image that 
                  
                     38 Ellis, American Sphinx, 222.
                  
                     39 Jefferson's letter to Colvin is quoted in ibid.,
                            208. See also Mayer, Constitutional Thought, 242-56. For a fuller
                            treatment of the diplomatic and geographic significance of the 
                                Louisiana
                             Purchase see Robert W. Tucker and David Hendrickson, Empire of Liberty: The Statecraft of Thomas Jefferson (
                                New York
                            , 1990).
               
                     emerges is of a person enraged with both the agents of the
                    judiciary, particularly John Marshall, and with the institution itself. Ellis presents Jefferson as
                    both single dimensional in his views and on the verge of irrationality whenever he addressed the
                    place of the judiciary in the new American constitutional order. At this point Ellis exhibits his
                    inexperience with American legal history, asserting that Jefferson considered that "the
                    original American revolutionaries had not envisioned a national judiciary at all." Of
                    course, this is disingenuous, given that most participants and leaders during the years 1774 to 1776
                    gave very little, if any, thought to "national" institutions of any kind.
                    Conversely, Mayer presents a more complex Jefferson, whose views changed in response to both the
                    historical development of American constitutional institutions and the stated institutional
                    ambitions of those who differed from his federalism. Again, it is important to distinguish Jefferson
                    in power with Jefferson out of power. Mayer views Jefferson as part of the Whig, or opposition,
                    constitutional tradition, a significant window into the Jeffersonian world that is unopened by
                    Ellis. But those Whig views were a part of Jefferson when he was in opposition, as he was so much of
                    the time when the federal judiciary was making such great institutional strides during Marshall's
                    tenure as chief justice of the Supreme Court. From almost the beginning, according to Mayer,
                    Jefferson maintained a jealousy of the jurisdiction claimed by Marshall, preferring to emphasize the
                    resolution of constitutional disputes either at the state level or in the elected branches of the
                    national government.40
            
            Several biographers and constitutional historians have noted the importance of Jefferson's
                    contributions to the American discussion of sovereignty. Beginning with his political opposition to
                    the crown and continuing during his initial contributions as a legislator and governor, Jefferson in
                    both his private and public correspondence joined others in the patriot cause as together they began
                    to frame a new American understanding of governmental power. Using different historical sources from
                    Europe and America, these new constitutionalists forged often conflicting definitions of sovereignty
                    during the final decades of the eighteenth century. As Mayer and others have argued, Jefferson's
                    views were neither static nor consistent. Even so, his contribution to the constitutionalism of
                    divided sovereignty and the limiting of centralized power that he made in the 
                        Kentucky
                     Resolutions of 1798 receives no attention from Ellis. The reader comes away from this
                    book, then, with no understanding of either Jefferson's long-standing interest in defining the
                    limits of state power or in establishing new American standards of citizenship. To avoid these
                    considerations is to leave blank a central feature of Jefferson's public character.
            
               
                  40 For a discussion of Jefferson's views on the judiciary see Ellis, American Sphinx, 221-27. See also Mayer, Constitutional
                        Thought, 257-94.
            
            
            
               SKETCH OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA BY WILLIAM GOODACRE (1831)
               Edwin M. Bette Collection, University of 
                            Virginia
                         Library, 
                     Charlottesville, Virginia
                  .
            
            
            In the history of western civilization the American Revolution stands out not only because of the
                    remarkable Declaration of Independence and the ensuing rush of written constitutions, but also
                    because very quietly added to them was a revolutionary consideration of time and space. Jefferson
                    became a knowing participant, indeed an important designer, of this transformation, which explains
                    at least in part why his character and his life remain sphinxlike or lost to some twentieth-century
                    biographers. In contrast, Henry Adams began his history of Jefferson's presidency with a chapter on
                    the American West, or what he considered America's future. By 1800 the West beckoned the East
                    forward, not the other way around. The American West became in Jefferson's mind the remedy for the
                    past with all of its political and legal encumbrances, its artificial barriers to the creative
                    energies of individuals. Jefferson's faith in the promise of the American future was revealed in his
                    drafting of the original Northwest Ordinance, in his willingness to chance the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase, and in his prompting the expedition of Lewis and Clark. For Donald Jackson in
                    his Thomas Jefferson and the Stony Mountains: Exploring the West from 
                            Monticello
                        
                (1981), this vision that Jefferson carried of American time and space was a
                    central part of his American character. For Ellis this subject remains on the periphery—a
                    story that could wait until the end of his biography and be told in bits and snippets without
                    enthusiasm.
            In his final years Jefferson by most accounts was not happy. The reasons for this vary with the
                    storyteller. For some, such as Ellis, the question of personal happiness is not a question even in
                    the discussion of Jefferson's earlier years. Perhaps biographers are inclined to accept the notion
                    that happiness should be an attribute of the declining years, a compensation for the unwelcome
                    demise of other emotions. The bright spot in Jefferson's last chapter, of course, was the
                    construction of the University of 
                        Virginia
                    , according to Ellis a fitting finale for his idealism. Jefferson, too, valued this
                    accomplishment, electing to remind the future as he chose it to conclude his epitaph. Ellis is not
                    so sure of this ranking. For him there is very little of Jefferson's dark side in Jefferson's other
                    choices for his tombstone, the Declaration of Independence and the 
                        Virginia
                     statute of religious liberty. But in the founding of the University of 
                        Virginia
                     "several old and familiar Jeffersonian patterns also presented themselves,
                    like characters in a play reappearing for a final encore."41
            
            Up until his end, Jefferson continued to live for the grand ideal while suffering from the slings and
                    arrows of the outrages visited by a fortune more practical. With his eye focused on the end design,
                    Jefferson got caught up in such details as surveying the site for the university; developing a
                    catalog for the library; drawing up architectural 
                  
                     41 Ellis, American Sphinx, 282.
               
                     details and gadgets; calculating ungovernable financial
                    minutiae; and recruiting faculty—always the conflicting dichotomy between the ideal and
                    the real, the speculative and the administrative. In short, Ellis wonders whether these conflicts
                    defeated Jefferson's best self, the public figure he labored so hard to construct. At the end, there
                    was also a dark note on Jefferson's commitment to liberty. He became intensely involved in the
                    development of the curriculum for the new college. Long a supporter of new courses on practical
                    subjects and new identifications for professorial positions, Jefferson became adamant on the subject
                    of barring theology from the curriculum. This denial, masked as a tribute to academic freedom and
                    individual liberty of choice, failed to hide the assault upon inquiry into ideas and convictions
                    central to the quest for liberty throughout much of the history of western civilization. In the
                    final analysis it was not what Jefferson promoted but what he denied that put a particular stamp on
                    his legacy. This concept of a state-sponsored university possessed of such power to limit and
                    control inquiry surfaced with great force by the end of the nineteenth century. It is a design that
                    has provided a guiding star for the direction of the secular public university in modern times. From
                    his observation post at a private college, Ellis is disinclined to comment upon the consequences of
                    this side of Jefferson's character and so depicts a Jefferson still unfocused, robbing the subject
                    of his own story and American readers of clear historical memory.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
