
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 79, Issue 2, pages 109-208. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:79+issue:2+year:1983&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Light of Reason: Hoosier Freethought and the Indiana Rationalist Association,
                    1909–1913
            
                    Robert M. Taylor, Jr.
                    ∗
                
            In 1909 Indiana freethinkers launched their first statewide organization, the Indiana Rationalist
                    Association. At its fifth convention, in 1913, the membership dissolved the state body and re-formed
                    as the National Rationalist Association. In shaping these two societies, Hoosiers shared in the
                    leadership of the country's freethought movement and its efforts to combat
                    religion's influence in American life. A description of the Indiana organization sheds
                    light on a little-known aspect of the history of Indiana and of American freethought.
            The term "freethinker" refers to persons who view institutional religion and its
                    theology, doctrines, clergy, and scriptures as expressions of superstition and irrationality.
                    Trusting in the superiority of natural law and scientific inquiry, freethinkers historically have
                    organized, published, lectured, and debated in an attempt to persuade individuals to cast off the
                    yoke of other-worldly concerns. Freethought in the 
                        United States
                     has waxed and waned over the past two centuries. It emerged from the
                    late-eighteenth-century American enlightenment, itself a stepchild of the European "Age of
                    Reason." In the nineteenth century freethought initially was voiced by such radical deists
                    as Ethan Allen, Elihu Palmer, and Thomas Paine. The immigration of rationalists from Europe, along
                    with public displeasure with blasphemy trials, swelled freethought ranks. Unitarianism,
                    Universalism, and Transcendentalism paved the way into freethought for some persons.1
            
            
               
                  ∗ Robert M. Taylor, Jr., is on the staff of the Indiana
                        Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . An earlier version of this paper was presented before the Indiana Religious
                        History Association at its annual meeting in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , November 6, 1981.
               
                  1 Practically all of the work on American freethought has focused on the
                        nineteenth century. The two basic volumes on the subject are Albert Post, Popular
                            Freethought in America, 1825–1850 (
                            New York
                        , 1943), and Sidney
            
            
            After the Civil War the popularization of ideas concerning evolution, the beginning of studies in
                    comparative religion, the subjection of scripture to literary criticism, and the development of a
                    scientific positivism created an atmosphere of skepticism concerning religion. This "Golden
                    Age" of freethought corresponded to the life of the "archscoffer," Robert
                    G. Ingersoll (1833–1899), America's premier orator and rationalist.2 Three events that occurred in the 1870s had long-range significance for
                    freethought. With the publication of the Nine Demands of Liberalism in 1872, freethinkers put forth
                    a basic platform, the core of which has never been abandoned. The Demands called for taxing church
                    properties, excluding chaplains from legislatures and military units, withholding public funds from
                    sectarian educational and charitable institutions, and abolishing Bible readings in schools,
                    judicial oaths, and Sunday observance laws. The second event was the establishment in 1873 of the
                        Truth Seeker, the most influential and durable of freethought papers. Still in
                    publication, the Truth Seeker "was almost an organization in itself, for
                    it served as a focal point around which gathered several thousand loyal partisans."3 Lastly, the creation in 1876 of the National Liberal League, subsequently the
                    American Secular Union, furnished freethinkers an often weak but nonetheless essential rallying
                    point for almost fifty years.4
            
            
               Warren, American Freethought, 1860–1914 (
                            New York
                        , 1943). A survey of freethought up to the present and the most comprehensive
                        bibliography published to date are in Marshall G. Brown and Gordon Stein, Freethought in the 
                                United States
                            : A Descriptive Bibliography (
                            Westport
                        , Conn., 1978). A major source for pre-twentieth-century personalities is Samuel
                        Porter Putnam's Four Hundred Years of Freethought (
                            New York
                        , 1894). George E. Macdonald's Fifty Years of Freethought;
                            Being the Story of the Truth Seeker, with the Natural History of its Third Editor (2
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1929), is a year-by-year summary of freethought news; only Macdonald's
                        book makes reference to the Indiana society. Of related interest is Martin Marty, The Infidel: Freethought and American Religion (
                            Cleveland
                        , 1961). Among the various histories of Indiana, only Emma Lou
                        Thornbrough's Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850–1880 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1965) touches on freethought.
               
                  2 To gain an appreciation of the scope of Ingersoll's work see
                        Gordon Stein, Robert G. Ingersoll: A Checklist (
                     Kent, Ohio
                  ,
                        1969). Biographies of Ingersoll include Orvin Larson, American Infidel: Robert G.
                            Ingersoll (
                            New York
                        , 1962), and Clarence H. Cramer, Royal Bob (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1952).
               
                  3
                        
                            Warren
                        , American Freethought, 26, 161–62. The Nine Demands of
                        Liberalism appeared April 6, 1872, in The Index, the official organ of the
                        Free Religious Association, founded in 1867 by a group of radical Unitarians.
               
                  4 For the turbulent history of the National Liberal League and its
                        transformation to the American Secular Union, see 
                            Warren
                        , American Freethought, 162ff; Stow Parsons, Free
                            Religion: An American Faith (
                            New Haven
                        , 1947), 118–29; and Macdonald, Fifty Years of
                        Freethought, II, 360–62.
            
            
            A vigorous, if amorphous, freethought existed in nineteenth-century Indiana. To churchmen in the
                    early 1800s frontier life bred infectious godlessness because of its isolation, feverish business
                    speculation, and intemperance. In attempting to plant Christianity throughout the West the embattled
                    home missionary discovered infertile soil, and Indiana "always had the name of being the
                    hardest to cultivate."5 The minister confronted the pervasive influence
                    of antireligious views emanating from the 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, communal experiment of Robert Owen. The 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette, later the Free Inquirer, ranked first among the
                    nation's freethought papers from 1825 to 1835. Pockets of freethought centered in the 
                        Switzerland County
                     town of 
                        Patriot
                     and Union County's Philomath. In the latter the Universalist pioneer Jonathan
                    Kidwell published the Philomath Encyclopedia to voice his heretical beliefs. To
                    his conservative brethren and the rest of Hoosier Christendom, Kidwell was an infidel and Philomath
                    was "the city of refuge for outcasts of the Universalist ministry."6 The flourishing foreign language freethought press had its Freie Presse von
                        Indiana, brought out in 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 1853 to 1866.7
            
            Noteworthy Indiana rationalists included Clemens Vonnegut, Sr., proprietor of Vonnegut Hardware
                    Company in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and an architect of that city's 
                        German
                     Association of Freethinkers, which was founded in 1870.8 Kersey
                    Graves, of 
                        Wayne County
                    , authored The World's Sixteen Saviors; or, Christianity Before
                        Christ, one of the best-selling freethought books ever published.9 The
                        Ironclad Age, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     weekly edited by Dr. Jasper Roland Monroe, claimed three thousand subscribers in the
                    late 1880s. Subtitled "A Paper with Few Principles," it was touted as
                    "the only straight atheistic 
                  
                     5
                            Home Missionary, IX (April, 1837), 210.
                  
                     6 Quoted in Elmo Arnold Robinson, "Universalism in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XIII (March, 1917), 17.
                            See Robinson's two-part article for details of Kidwell's career and his
                            intradenominational problems.
                  
                     7 John W. Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982), 268, and 
                                Brown
                             and Stein, Freethought in the 
                                    United States
                                , 97.
                  
                     8 Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 633.
                            Upon retirement in 1896 Vonnegut devoted his time to study and writing. He authored a 
                                German
                             translation of Ingersoll's "Open Letter to 
                                Indianapolis
                             Clergymen" and A Proposed Guide for Instruction in Morals
                                from the Standpoint of a Freethinker for Adult Persons, Offered by a Dilettante (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1900).
                  
                     9 Kersey Graves, The World's Sixteen Saviors;
                                or, Christianity Before Christ (
                                Boston
                            , 1874); 
                                Brown
                             and Stein, Freethought in the 
                                    United States
                                , 55. Graves's Sixteen Saviors prompted an
                            exchange of arguments in the 
                                Richmond
                             (Ind.) Telegram between the author and John T. Perry,
                            subsequently reprinted as John T. Perry, Sixteen Saviors, or One? The Gospels
                                Not Brahmanic (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1879).
               
                     paper now or ever published in the world or out of
                        it."10 Another capital city paper, the Iconoclast, claimed it would "owe no allegiance whatever to gods or priests, angels
                    or devils."11 George Washington Julian, 
                        United States
                     senator from 
                        Centerville
                    , appeared at several freethought encampments, and the Truth Seeker
                    made numerous positive references to the antireligious speeches of David Starr Jordan, president of
                    Indiana University.12
            
            Except for the 
                        German
                     freethinkers, organizational efforts came to naught. Apparently, the American Secular
                    Union did not establish an auxiliary in Indiana, although Graves may have had this in mind in 1880
                    when he noted that a few acquaintances were trying to organize.13
                    
                        Monroe
                    , of the Ironclad Age, proposed in 1882 a society called the Legion of
                        Honor.14 He received some memberships following his announcement, but the
                    plan failed to jell. Despite the absence of organizations Indiana freethinkers often joined
                    associations in other states.15
            
            Freethinkers generally failed to build harmonious, long-lasting, and effective organizations, as they
                    held widely diverse viewpoints. How could freethought, a writer wondered in 1890, encompass everyone
                    from anarchists to spiritualists, "every Mother's soul of whom considers his own
                    ism as the particular point at issue, and make them tow a line and work in
                        unison…?"16 Rationalism's commitment to total
                    liberty of expression and to decentralized societies, and its incorporation of a broad range of
                    ideas, clashed repeatedly with its essential need for a unified front. Thus, when freethinkers
                    formed associations and held meetings, the unquestioned ideal of dechristianizing the world often
                    gave way to ideological tangents, 
                  
                     10
                            Ironclad Age, March 24, 1894. 
                                Monroe
                             founded the 
                                Rockford
                            
                            Herald in Jackson County in 1855, moving the paper to 
                                Seymour
                             in 1857 and renaming it the Seymour Times. In 1882 the
                            publication came to 
                                Indianapolis
                             as the Age, subsequently the Ironclad Age.
                            
                                Monroe
                            's presses in 
                                Seymour
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             cranked out scores of freethought pamphlets and books authored by the doctor
                            and others. On 
                                Monroe
                            's life see especially his obituary and acknowledgments in the Ironclad Age, November 4, 1891.
                  
                     11
                            Iconoclast, March 4, 1882. This paper, begun at 
                                Noblesville
                            , Indiana, in 1881 by W.H. LaMaster, was banned from the mails a year after its
                            debut.
                  
                     12 Macdonald, Fifty Years of Freethought, I, 266,
                            II, 143, 337.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Warren
                            , American Freethought, 203.
                  
                     14 The Age, September 9, 1882.
                  
                     15 For instance, the 
                                New York
                             State Freethinkers' Association counted fifteen members from Indiana
                            in 1882 (Macdonald, Fifty Years of Free-Thought, I, 204n).
                  
                     16 Quoted in 
                                Warren
                            , American Freethought, 33n.
               
                     tactical quarrels, and personality parades. Occasionally the
                    sheer bravura or reputation of leaders controlled the proceedings. If the strong hand of an able
                    leader was removed, however, intrinsic conflicts surfaced and jeoparized any group's
                    existence. By and large, freethought's difficulties with freedom and order in structuring
                    its crusade resulted in short-lived organizations, an inordinate amount of discussion of
                    organizational questions, and little immediate social impact.
            The twentieth century opened with freethought at low ebb. Death was taking its toll of a number of
                    the old guard.17 The American Secular Union had declined by 1900, and it did not
                    meet several years in the next decade.18 This period was, in fact, the beginning
                    of the end for the one national body that had been involved with most freethought happenings for
                    about twenty years. In reference to the languishing freethought movement, an editor of the Truth Seeker observed in 1904 "a falling away" of the
                    country's freethought presses, and in 1907 he remarked that "One looking for a
                    record of organized activity … will find little of it."19
                    These kinds of sentiments inevitably gave rise to organizational considerations. No direct evidence
                    links the establishment of the Indiana Rationalist Association with these concerns; yet it is
                    reasonable to assume that to some extent its creation and subsequent transformation into a national
                    society were rooted in the prevailing anxiety about the circumstances and future of freethought.
            For the most part the behind-the-scenes activity leading to the formation of the Indiana Rationalist
                    Association remains hidden, but several significant preliminary events have come to light. On Sunday
                    afternoon, January 3, 1909, sixty-seven persons met in 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, to establish the Humanitarian Society. The society's main purpose
                    was to inaugurate a series of free public weekly lectures on subjects of general interest. The
                    organizers adopted a constitution and elected officers. The cost of defraying speakers'
                    expenses and auditorium rental came from membership dues of twenty-five cents monthly and from
                    voluntary collections at the door.20 Each Sunday, from 
                  
                     17 Between 1898 and 1907 the deceased included Ingersoll; Richard B.
                            Westbrook, past president of the American Secular Union; George J. Holyoake, the British
                            "father of secularism"; and Moncure Conway, the biographer of Thomas
                            Paine. Gone too were such favored theorists as Herbert Spencer and Frederick Nietzsche.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Brown
                             and Stein, Freethought in the 
                                    United States
                                , 53, 74.
                  
                     19 Macdonald, Fifty Years of Freethought, II, 252,
                            296.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, January 4, 1909; Truth Seeker, January 23,
                            1909.
               
                     January through May of 1909, audiences at 
                        Muncie
                    's Royal Theatre or the Vaudelle Theatre heard talks on subjects ranging from
                    "Life and Its Mysteries" to "The Origin and Evolution of the
                    Horse," from "Crimes and Criminals" to "The World's
                    Saviors." On occasion, the Vaterland Quartette presented musical selections.21 Though it resembled the typical social and educational forum found in communities
                    throughout the nation, the Humanitarian Society possessed a freethought bias. The society descended
                    from a line of 
                        Muncie
                     organizations catering to liberals, beginning with the Scientific and Literary
                    Association established in 1878. This association's stated object was "scientific
                    investigation and promotion of literary culture," but some persons charged that it pushed
                    "infidelity as the prevailing sentiment."22
            
            George H. Koons (1848–1919), a charter member of the Scientific and Literary Association,
                    assumed the presidency of 
                        Muncie
                    's Humanitarian Society in 1909. Koons, a Universalist and a native of 
                        Henry County
                    , Indiana, graduated from Indiana University's law department and practiced in 
                        Middletown
                     before removing to 
                        Muncie
                     in 1874. From 1892 to 1898 he served as a 
                        Delaware County
                     judge.23 Minos Winfield Lee (1853–1919), another
                    Universalist, was vice-president of the society. Reared in 
                        Randolph County
                    , Indiana, Lee was a graduate of 
                        Winchester
                     High School, and later an attorney in 
                        Muncie
                     and Bluffton. He appears to have been a candidate for Congress in 1878 and for state
                    attorney general in 1882 on the Greenback party ticket. In 1909 he worked for the Great Atlantic and
                    Pacific Tea Company in 
                        Muncie
                    . Lee so valued the work of the Humanitarian Society that he could predict its effects
                    "would be infinitely better for 
                        Muncie
                     than the location of forty of the best factories in the country."24 The secretary of the organization 
                  
                     21 Speakers, as listed in the 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star and 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Sunday Star, included, from 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Dr. James A. Houser, a physician; Flavius J. Van Vohris and Willets A.
                            Bastian, attorneys; Felix T. McWhirter, president of the People's State Bank; and
                            Leroy Snyder. From Bluffton came W.W. Walbert and Levi Mock, attorneys. Florence Wattles of 
                                Elwood
                             and her father, Wallace D. Wattles, pastor of the People's Church at 
                                Marion
                            , spoke also, as did C.X. Smith of 
                                Muncie
                             and Joseph T. Day of Dunkirk.
                  
                     22 Quoted in Frank D. Haimbaugh, ed., History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924), I, 376–77.
                  
                     23 Charles W. Taylor, Biographical Sketches and Review of
                                the Bench and Bar of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895), 493; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, October 18, 1919; Proceedings of the
                                Twenty-Fourth Annual Meeting of the Indiana State Bar Association… (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1920), 164–66.
                  
                     24 Quote from 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, March 1, 1909. For information on Lee, see Biographical and Historical Record of Adams and Wells Counties,
                            Indiana… (
                                Chicago
                            , 1887), 733; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, October 24, 1919.
               
                     was Dr. Herbert D. Fair (1868–1962), the third
                    Universalist among the leaders. Born in 
                        New York
                    , Fair received his medical training in 
                        Milwaukee
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     and participated in the Spanish-American War before settling in 
                        Muncie
                     in 1900. Fair, while secretary, contributed lengthy articles to the Truth
                        Seeker, including the cleverly titled "Curious Capers of Christian Converts, with
                    Critical Comments of a Contemporary Contemplator."25
            
            The most ardent freethinker among the society's officers and the founder and leading force
                    of the organization was its treasurer, Dr. Thomas J. Bowles (1836–1924). The
                    seventy-three-year-old 
                        Muncie
                     physician, born in 
                  Milroy, Rush County
               , and brought up by his mother in the
                    Christian church, followed his father's agnostic leanings. In the latter decades of the
                    nineteenth century Bowles contributed articles and subscribed to freethought papers, including the
                        Ironclad Age. Active in 
                        Muncie
                    's liberal groups, he is credited with organizing the Scientific and Literary
                    Association. In 1901, when a small number of dissidents bolted the American Secular Union and began
                    a short-lived political unit named the National Liberty party, Bowles was its president. A county
                    history portrayed Bowles as "a bitter opponent of dogmatic theology, believing it to be an
                    enemy to human progress; an agnostic in belief, the doctor is an evolutionist and endorses
                    Darwin's theory to the letter."26
            
            Hardly the proverbial village atheists, these four community stalwarts guided the Humanitarian
                    Society for the five months of its existence. Members of the society spoke out at times on social
                    issues, in particular decrying intolerance shown the Irish and condemning the "fanatical
                    liquor prohibitionists" as threats to civil liberty.27 At one point, 
                        Muncie
                    's ministers fought back and offered their own lecture series at the same 
                  
                     25
                            Truth Seeker, February 20, 27, March 6, 1909; Journal of the
                                Indiana State Medical Association, LV (May, 1962), 698; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, March 3, 1962.
                  
                     26 Quote from A Portrait and Biographical Record of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana… (
                                Chicago
                            , 1894), 205. For information on Bowles, see also Truth
                            Seeker, September 1, 1923; G.W.H. Kemper, ed., A Twentieth Century History
                                of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), 650–51; Haimbaugh, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , I, 376–77; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, April 20, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 21, 1924.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, March 6, April 2, 1909. 
                                Muncie
                            's contest on the local option question of liquor prohibition angered
                            the liberals, especially when they thought the churches favored a delay in the election to
                            allow time for the revivalist Billy Sunday to rally more of the citizens to the
                            "dry" cause. Minos Lee, who doubted the legality of the local option law,
                            called Sunday "an emotional sensational, religious hypocrite and
                            blackguard"; ibid., March 21, 1909.
               
                     time on Sunday afternoons, a ploy one member of the
                    Humanitarian Society characterized as the "ministerial hypocritical union."28 The significance of the Humanitarian Society lies in its inclusion of persons
                    and principles destined to play prominent parts in subsequent freethought endeavors. Perhaps the
                    society also gave its leaders a chance to assess local support for rationalist ideas and to gauge
                    one another's willingness to attempt to broaden organizational freethought in the state.
            A model for an association of Indiana freethinkers existed in neighboring 
                        Ohio
                    . The Buckeye Secular Union held its seventh annual meeting September 10–11,
                    1909, in 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               . A sprinkling of Hoosiers mingled with the 150 men and women
                    attending the conference. On the program was New Yorker Libby Culbertson Macdonald, widow of Eugene
                    M. Macdonald, past editor of the Truth Seeker and a former president of the
                    American Secular Union. Libby Macdonald would play a critical role in the Indiana Rationalist
                    Association. Bowles attended and lectured on "The Decay of Orthodoxy." His comment
                    that "we have no national freethought association" was misleading considering the
                    existing, but woefully weak, American Secular Union. George Roberts, president of the 
                        Ohio
                     society, had a tongue-in-cheek response to Bowles: "Freethinkers
                    don't get together because they don't believe in hell and there is nothing to
                    worry about."29
            
            Another Hoosier rationalist at the 
                        Ohio
                     conclave was David W. Sanders (1872–1912) of 
                  Covington, Fountain
                    County
               . Raised in Wallace in a Lutheran family, Sanders attended 
                        Wabash
                     College and Indiana University, taught school, and became the first principal of
                    Wallace's high school in 1895. In 1902 he founded and edited the 
                  
                            Fountain County
                         Citizen in 
                        Covington
                    . His Democratic party organ lasted one year, during which time Sanders finished a
                    controversial text on Indiana civil government, published in 1903. He lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1909, supervising the publication of various editions of his book. An announcement
                    by Sanders at the 
                        Ohio
                     convention furnishes the first solid evidence of an impending freethought organization
                    in Indiana. The Truth Seeker quotes Sanders as telling his audience that
                    "steps were taken this morning for an Indiana Organization with Dr. Bowles as chairman. I
                    invite 
                  
                     28
                            Truth Seeker, March 13, 1909.
                  
                     29
                            
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 State Journal, September 11, 12, 1909; Truth Seeker,
                            October 2, 1909.
               
                     you to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Sunday, November 21, to the first convention of the Indiana Secular
                        Association."30
            
            Presumably, a group of Hoosiers caucused in 
                        Ohio
                     and hammered out a state organization. While it is impossible to determine the members
                    of this group, it is probable that the six men later designated as founders of the Indiana
                    Rationalist Association were present. Bowles and Sanders were two of the organizers. The others
                    included J. Wesley Whicker (born 1863) of 
                  Attica, Fountain County
               . Whicker (also spelled Whickar, Whickcar)
                    attended the Indiana State Normal School at 
                        Terre Haute
                     prior to launching a career as a prominent farmer and lawyer in 
                        Attica
                    . His father was a Spiritualist. Whicker perhaps is best known as the author of Historical Sketches of the Wabash Valley.
               31 Another founder was seventy-five-year-old Schuyler LaTourette (1834–1926), who
                    like Sanders and Whicker lived in 
                        Fountain County
                    . LaTourette farmed near 
                        Covington
                     all his life. His parents, among the first settlers in the county, were weavers whose
                    coverlets ranked among the finest in Indiana. LaTourette earned the rank of captain in the Civil
                    War. Sometimes referred to as the "grand old man" of 
                        Fountain County
                    , LaTourette lived out his days farming, raising livestock, and caring for five
                        orphans.32 Another founder, Isaiah M. Miller (1851–1941), farmed
                    at Upland in 
                        Grant County
                    . A bachelor who claimed descent from a long line of rationalists, Miller traveled
                    widely and frequented freethought gatherings. Largely self-educated, he sent letters and articles to
                    various freethought publications, farm journals, and newspapers, especially the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Enquirer. He wrote several small books of verse. A line in his Fundamentals of Holiness
                    
                  
                     30
                            Truth Seeker, October 2, 1909. Apparently the initial designation, Indiana
                            Secular Association, was changed after the 
                                Ohio
                             meeting. Sanders used the words Indiana Rationalist Association in the Truth Seeker, October 23, 1909. Sanders's major writings include:
                            D.W. Sanders, A Manual of Civil Government of the Township and County, Town and
                                City… (
                                Covington
                            , Ind., 1903); and Church Creeds and Party Platforms; A Comparison
                                of Catholic Preachers, Cambellite Priests, and Ministers of Other
                                "Christian" Churches… (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1907).
                  
                     31 Brief biographical notes accompany the pictures of the six founders
                            in David Sanders, ed., The Light of Reason (
                                Indianapolis
                            , [1911]), 1–3. On Whicker see the "foreword" (by
                            Harry F. Ross) of his Historical Sketches of the Wabash
                                Valley
                      (
                                Attica
                            , 1916); also Thomas A. Clifton, ed., Past and Present of 
                                    Fountain
                                 and 
                                    Warren Counties
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1913), 562–63. Whicker set forth his freethought stance in the 
                        
                                    Fountain
                                -
                                    Warren
                                 Democrat, December 9, 1909.
                  
                     32 H.W. Beckwith, History of 
                                    Fountain County
                                , Together with Historic Notes on the Wabash
                            Valley
                     … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), 387–88; Clifton, Past and Present,
                            472–74; 
                                Covington
                            
                            Republican, March 26, 1926; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, April 15, 1926; Pauline Montgomery, Indiana Coverlet
                                Weavers and Their Coverlets (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1974), 67–69.
               
                    
                    
                  LEADERS OF INDIANA RATIONALISM
                  
                  DR. T.J. BOWLES
                  
               
                    
                  DAVID W. SANDERS
                  
               
                    
                  WILLIAM Y. BUCK
                  
               
                    
                    
                  JOHN WESLEY WHICKER
                  
               
                    
                  I.M. MILLER
                  
               
                    
                  SCHUYLER LA
                     TOURETTE
                  
                  Reproduced from David Sanders, ed., The Light of Reason (
                                Indianapolis
                            , [1911]) 1–3.
               
                     goes: "But for the system of graft/ there would be
                    little preaching/ for there's few don't get a draft/ in a Sunday's
                    fleecing." In 1938 Miller deeded seven hundred acres to Purdue University, which now
                    operates it as the Miller Purdue Experimental Farm.33 About 
                        Muncie
                    's William Y. Buck, the sixth founder, little is known. He served as a
                    correspondent to the Truth Seeker for 
                        Muncie
                    's Humanitarian Society. In 1909 the Light of Reason
                    identified him as supervisor of the plating department of the 
                        Ontario
                     Silver Company (now the 
                        Ontario
                     Company). He reportedly invented a silver-plating process called
                    "Buck's Silver Deposit System," which to the hardly unbiased writer in
                    the Light of Reason (probably Sanders) made Buck "probably the most
                    widely known electro-plater in the country."34
            
            These men were part of the network of freethinkers who provided the leadership for midwestern
                    rationalism. Members of this informal directory joined one another's societies, exchanged
                    platforms at yearly meetings, contributed material to each other's publications, and held
                    offices in several organizations simultaneously. A 
                  St.
                        Louis, Missouri
               , assembly of
                    freethinkers, which took place a few weeks before the initial meeting of the Indiana Rationalist
                    Association, illustrates this web of authority. Bowles, Sanders, and other Hoosiers traveled to 
                        St. Louis
                     in early November, 1909, to participate in the creation of a national society called
                    the American Rationalist Association. Sanders was chosen secretary-treasurer, and Bowles was
                    appointed one of the honorary state vice-presidents. John R. Charlesworth, the president, a veteran
                    of the freethought lectern, had served as secretary of the Freethought Federation of America in
                    1892. In 1909 he worked as editor of the Blue Grass Blade, a libertarian paper out of
                            
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               .35 Hoosier subscribers to the Blue Grass Blade included
                    Bowles, I.M. Miller, and Albert P. Johnson, a railroad watchman from 
                        Vincennes
                    . Johnson attended the 
                        St. Louis
                    
                    
                  
                     33 Miller's writings include Memoirs of
                                Millerton by I.M. Miller, August Eighth, 1925 (n.p., n.d.). Millerton was the name
                            of his farm. He also wrote Fundamentals of Holiness (n.p., n.d.), and Hoosier Halos in Hocus Pocus on Genus Homo's of Facts and Follies by
                                I.M. Miller of Millerton, 1838–1928 (n.p., n.d.). On his life see the
                            Sunday Marion Chronicle-Tribune, March 22, 1941, December 7, 1958. There
                            are biographical allusions throughout Miller's poems.
                  
                     34
                            Light of Reason, 2, 32.
                  
                     35 Macdonald, Fifty Years of Freethought, II, 64.
                            The Blue Grass Blade was founded in 1894 by Charles C. Moore, who had been
                            a Campbellite preacher before embracing rationalism. Between 1894 and his death in 1906,
                            Moore served jail terms for libeling a church, fighting, and advocating free love. He was
                            acquitted on other charges of mailing obscene literature and blasphemy. Ibid., II, 80, 147, 185, 198, 282.
               
                     meeting and helped draw up its order of business.36 Earlier in 1909 Charlesworth had informed readers of the Blade of his
                    invitations to speak in 
                        Covington
                     and 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana.37
            
            The vice-presidents were William Maple of 
                        Chicago
                     and Dr. J.B. Wilson of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Maple edited the Ingersoll Beacon, an important freethought
                    newspaper, for which in 1909 or shortly thereafter Sanders labored as a contributing editor. Wilson
                    engineered the formation of the National Liberty party in 1901, an organization over which Bowles
                    presided. Wilson was vice-president, also, of the Buckeye Secular Union, having been elected in 1909
                    at the 
                        Columbus
                     meeting which witnessed the birth of the Indiana Rationalist Association.
            The ties of friendship among the leaders of the 
                        St. Louis
                     meeting could not, however, guarantee a harmonious beginning for the national
                    association. Its inauguration was rife with controversy. The headlines of the 
                        St. Louis
                    
                    Globe-Democrat blared: "Freethinkers Meet to Unite, Wrangle."
                    Charlesworth wanted the Monistic philosophy (unity of mind and matter) of Ernst Haeckel, a
                    contemporary European zoologist, to be the ideological framework of the association. A group of
                    socialists attempted to capture the convention and have it go on record for Karl Marx or Henry
                    George. Most delegates registered disapproval of Haeckel, Marx, and George, arguing instead that
                    freethought could not tolerate having any one theorist as a guide. Next, the assembly ruled out a
                    constitutional plank calling for "good moral character and honorable deportment"
                    as a qualification for membership because they could not decide on a definition of moral character.
                    In other matters, the phrase "we believe" was scuttled from the
                    constitution's introduction because a majority thought it presupposed fixed attitudes and
                    implied lack of knowledge. One effort gained approval: the adoption of the initiative and referendum
                    to forestall possible "tyranny" by the general officers and board of directors.38
            
            The almost concurrent establishment of similarly named national and state leagues by a cadre of
                    acquaintances suggests an arrangement whereby the larger body would act as the parent organization
                    and Indiana's forthcoming society would be its first state auxiliary. If this was the
                    design, the contentious 
                        St. Louis
                     meeting put a kink in it. It appears that the American 
                  
                     36 W.C. Daly, a grocer from 
                                Princeton
                            , Indiana, also helped with the organizational format of the 
                                St. Louis
                             meeting; 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Daily Globe-Democrat, November 14, 1909.
                  
                     37
                            Blue Grass Blade, March 7, 1909.
                  
                     38
                            
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Daily Globe-Democrat, November 14, 15, 1909.
               
                     Rationalist Association held its first and last convention in 
                        St. Louis
                    . The 
                        Missouri
                     affair nevertheless points up the strategic place of Hoosiers in freethought's
                    ongoing struggle to institute a viable national organization. Bowles, Sanders, and the others from
                    Indiana could have had few illusions about the problems they might confront as they rushed home to
                    prepare for the establishment of the Indiana Rationalist Association.
            The first meeting of the Indiana Rationalist Association began on December 4, 1909, rather than
                    November 21, as Sanders had announced previously. Perhaps the freethinkers desired to follow rather
                    than precede the annual observance of a week of prayer in 
                        Indianapolis
                    's Protestant churches. The timing permitted Sanders, in a letter to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, December 3, to attack the exclusiveness of the Protestant churches in not
                    tendering offers to all faiths to participate in the prayer week. He could then follow with an
                    announcement of the upcoming sessions of the Indiana Rationalist Association at which speakers would
                    "expose the fallacy, follies and vices of all so-called revealed religions and will urge
                    that the real infidels and blasphemers are the priests and preachers of orthodoxy."39
            
            More than one hundred persons congregated in the Palm Room of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's Claypool Hotel on Saturday, December 4, for the opening of the convention.
                    John B. Glover (1833–1911), a seventy-six-year-old 
                        Orange County
                     native, delivered the welcoming address. Glover, treasurer of Indiana in the early
                    1870s, characterized his listeners as the "pioneers of human progress." He
                    denounced religion as the child of ignorance and fear, theology as the "lash of the
                    priest," worship as the "folly of the feeble," prayer as "the
                    last resort of the foolish," and the Bible as no more sacred than Ralph Waldo
                    Emerson's essays.40
            
            Sanders delivered the keynote address and, perhaps recalling his 
                        St. Louis
                     experience, urged decency and order in the deliberations. It appears his request was
                    heeded. Other speakers included the Blue Grass Blade's Charlesworth, who
                    was president of the ill-fated American Rationalist Association; Roberts, president of the Buckeye
                    Secular Union; Maple, editor of the Ingersoll Beacon; and E.G. Reichold, secretary
                    of the 
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 3, 1909.
                  
                     40
                            Truth Seeker, December 25, 1909; John H.B. Nowland, Sketches
                                of Prominent Citizens of 1876 with a few of the Pioneers of the City and County Who have
                                Passed Away (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1877), 454–55; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 13, 1903, March 26, 1911.
               
                     American Secular Union. Philip Rappaport, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     attorney, newspaperman, and lecturer on socialism spoke on "God, Man, and
                        Morality."41 Libby Macdonald entertained the audience with a
                    musical rendition of "Thomas Paine." John Whicker of 
                        Attica
                    , whom the Truth Seeker designated as one of the real discoveries of
                    the convention, gave what the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News called a "sarcastic address" on the text "For God
                    so Loved the World." At one point, Whicker noted that he had no money to help Christianize
                    the heathen, but he "always had something for a fund to civilize the
                        Christian."42
            
            The delegates adopted a resolution deploring the October 15, 1909, execution of Francisco Ferrer
                    Guardia, the Spanish revolutionary who founded the antireligious, anarchistic Escuela Moderna
                    (Modern School). His trial for participating in an antigovernment uprising in Barcelona created a
                    sensation in the 
                        United States
                     and raised antagonisms against 
                        Spain
                     and Catholicism. Sanders called it a "governmental murder…
                    instigated by the fanatical clergy as a part of their campaign to oppose all intellectual progress
                    and freedom from church domination."43
            
            Bowles assumed the presidency of the executive committee of the new organization. John C. Beck, an
                    ex-Roman Catholic and a traveling salesman from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , served as first vice-president. LaTourette, second vice-president, and Sanders,
                    secretary-treasurer, rounded out the slate of officers. The constitution of the Indiana Rationalist
                    Association set forth the organization's four major aims: to promote fellowship among
                    rationalists through an annual convention, to expose the fallacies of revealed religion, to oppose
                    the union of church and state under any guise, and to disseminate the truth of the nonexistence of
                    the supernatural. Membership dues were set at one dollar per year.44
            
            What little is known about the affairs of the Indiana association is confined largely to reports of
                    its annual conventions in the popular and freethought press. Organization records, if kept, have not
                    been discovered, nor have diaries, correspondence, or related documents. Formal business between
                    conventions, if such occurred, can only be surmised. If the concerns and interests expressed by the
                    nation's freethinkers in the 
                  
                     41 On Rappaport, see the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Star and the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News for December 8, 1913.
                  
                     42
                            Truth Seeker, December 25, 1909; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 6, 1909.
                  
                     43
                            Truth Seeker, December 25, 1909.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid.; Light of Reason, 11.
               
                    
                    Truth Seeker are any indication, Indiana's leaders monitored churches and
                    legislatures by sniffing out encroachments of the line separating church and state. Following the
                    practice of other freethought societies, they probably sent in news regarding clergymen's
                    immoralities and crimes. Details of America's wayward clergy appeared yearly in the Truth
                    Seeker's usually lengthy "Annual Roundup" of ministerial misfits.45 In addition, the spokesmen for the society probably traveled and lectured,
                    recruited members, published tracts, and submitted letters to the media. Much of the effort and
                    expense, it seems, went into planning and conducting the conventions.
            The Claypool Hotel in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was the setting again for the gathering in 1910. Bowles, Beck, LaTourette, and Sanders
                    retained their offices. With some notable exceptions, the list of speakers remained much the same,
                    again including Bowles, Sanders, Reichold, Maple, and Whicker. Among the new faces were J.F. Carney,
                    a Unitarian minister from 
                        Martinsville
                    , and Dr. James A. Houser, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     physician. Houser welcomed the guests and members by surveying the history of protest
                    against orthodox religion. A well-traveled lecturer, Houser had developed what he termed the New
                    Science of Life: "I teach," wrote Houser, "that life is an ethereal,
                    sublimated, intelligent energy in atomic form, and has the wisdom and power to create animated forms
                    to body forth the ideal of life such as we see."46
            
            The high point of the sessions was the appearance of Elbert Hubbard. Hubbard had founded the Roycroft
                    (King's Craft) community at East 
                  Aurora,
                            New York
               , in 1895. By 1910 the handmade
                    copper, silver, and leather items, expertly designed books, and mission-style furniture had achieved
                    worldwide renown. The Roycroft Inn became a gathering place for the eminent figures of the day.
                    Hubbard, though considered a freethinker, rarely participated in organized freethought. His
                    magazines, The Fra and The Philistine, contained his essays and
                    epigrams on a broad range of issues and interests. Fra Albertus, as Hubbard was commonly called, was
                    introduced to 
                  
                     45 Of great interest to freethinkers, for example, were the scandals
                            involving four 
                                Kokomo
                             ministers within the brief space of several weeks between late May and early
                            June, 1912. See Macdonald, Fifty Years of Freethought, II, 389.
                  
                     46 Quoted in Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana and Indianans: A
                                History of Aboriginal and Territorial Indiana and the Century of Statehood (3
                            vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), III, 1292. See, in addition, Political and Biographical
                                Memoirs: 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1893), 226–27; and 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 30, 1919. Memoir of Dr. J.A. Houser (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1920) samples his poetry, essays, and sayings but tells little about his
                        life.
               
                     the convention as the "sage of East 
                        Aurora
                    " and one of the "most practical philosophers of the world."
                    Hubbard cautioned his audience not to expect too much too soon, but he predicted the
                    "ultimate triumph of truth and reason and the annihilation of orthodoxy."47
            
            Freethought's fringe long has been populated by an assortment of single-issue advocates,
                    ascetics, and a few visionaries who have managed to combine primitivism with commercial success.
                    Another speaker at the convention, Bruce Calvert (1866–1940), fit the latter mold.
                    Calvert, an admirer and frequent guest of Hubbard, lived in 
                        Lake County
                     on an acre of land now a part of Gary. Born in 
                        Jackson County
                    , Calvert attended the state normal school at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , taught, and worked for publishing houses in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     prior to removing in 1902 to his forest paradise. He called his rustic habitat Pigeon
                    Roost in-the-Woods. From here in 1908 he launched a small magazine entitled The Open
                        Road, Journal of the Society of the Universal Brotherhood of Man, a good imitation of
                    Hubbard's Philistine. Calvert was not a recluse. He wrote advertising
                    copy for firms in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        New York
                     and lectured for pay in chatauquas, lyceums, and clubs. He expounded on nature, human
                    kinship, and good health—the latter meaning, among other things, vegetarian diet, cold
                    showers, correct chewing of food, proper breathing, and nudism. He also wrote essays on socialism,
                    science and health, rational education, and shorthand. In 1911 the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star characterized Calvert as "Indiana's Prize Crank."48 When Gary and its steel mills threatened to overrun Calvert's
                    asylum, he moved in 1912 to similar environs in 
                        New York
                     and subsequently to 
                        New Jersey
                    . He published The Open Road until a few months before his death in
                    1940. The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times obituary noted Calvert's twenty-year membership on the board of
                    directors of the American Sunbathing Association and referred to him as a pioneer in the
                    nation's nudist movement.49
            
            
               
                  47
                        Truth Seeker, November 26, 1910. Hubbard's most recent visit to 
                            Indianapolis
                         had been in November, 1909, when he spoke at the Propylaeum; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, November 3, 1909.
               
                  48
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, April 9, 1911.
               
                  49
                        Truth Seeker, November 26, 1910; 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, June 1, 1940. Much of the Calvert material, including scrapbooks of
                        newspaper clippings and his published articles, is housed in the Gary, Indiana, Public Library.
                            The Open Road was produced in the years 1908–1915 and
                        1926–1940. Selections from The Open Road are reprinted in Thirty Years on the Open Road with Bruce Calvert (
                            New York
                        , 1941). The author is preparing a biography of Calvert.
            
            
            Calvert's message to the convention dealt with America's education system, which he
                    thought had become narrow, intolerant, and inflexible. He called for the establishment of rational
                    schools that would use nature as the setting for learning, individualize instruction, develop
                    spontaneity in teachers and pupils, and make textbooks secondary.
            At this convention Sanders proposed and received approval from the membership to edit and publish The Light of Reason, a volume comprised of portraits and writings of prominent men
                    and women in the Indiana body and in freethought, past and present. Many of the addresses given at
                    the 1910 meeting are printed in full in this compilation. An 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News reviewer thought the rancor and narrowness directed toward ministers and
                    churches in The Light of Reason made a lie of freethought and its professed love for humanity.50
            
            The third meeting of the association, in early November, 1911, would be its largest. More than three
                    hundred persons attended the two-day affair. Thusnelda Peemoller, a widowed 
                        Indianapolis
                     teacher, greeted the convention. She compared the assembled truthseekers to scientists:
                    although their work must often be destructive, this was only because it was necessary to destroy
                    error so truth might prevail. Mrs. Sarah Philobaum of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, told of her conversion from the Friends to freethought. Other new lecturers
                    included D.E. Kenyon, a 
                        Chicago
                     lawyer, and Frank Midway, of 
                  Dayton,
                            Ohio
               ; the latter argued that despite the
                    absence of God, capitalists like John D. Rockefeller and J.P. Morgan kept alive a
                    "god-idea" in order to keep the masses meek and submissive. Calvert spoke on the
                    topic of rational living. Bowles, Whicker, and Sanders filled out the speaker rostrum. Sanders,
                    having in mind freethought's aversion to an afterlife, described his fellow rationalists as
                    a "bunch of people who would rob man of his fond hopes of hell for his neighbor."
                    The previous year's officers were elected for another term. The convention passed
                    resolutions against teaching religion, singing religious songs, and reading scripture in the public
                    school. It also went on record as opposing the appointment of Edward D. White, a Catholic, as chief
                    justice of the Supreme Court.51
            
            The freethinkers' unbridled condemnations of Christianity 
                  
                     50
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 6, 1912.
                  
                     51
                            Truth Seeker, December 2, 1911; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sun, November 6, 1911; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, November 9, 1911. Rollyn Hawkins of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and Ben Lukens of Anderson were prominently mentioned as active in the
                            preparation and organization of the meeting.
               
                     did not go unchallenged this year. Harry G. Hill, pastor of the
                    Third Christian Church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , argued that the Christian, too, is free to think. "The real Christian is
                    bound to believe only the truths which through facts are revealed to him. Neither is the real
                    Christian bound to doubt anything, and the rationalists, as I understand it, are bound to doubt some
                    things." Hill, nevertheless, expressed sympathy with the rationalist position and moved
                    even closer to it when, in 1912, he became pastor of the People's Union, a new nonsectarian
                    religious organization in the state capital.52
            
            The 1911 conclave would be Sanders's last, for he died of Brights disease in the spring of
                    1912, at age thirty-nine. His death deprived the Indiana society of one of its key figures and may
                    have hastened its breakup. In any case, Sanders's death created a leadership void in the
                    association that the convention of 1912 had to fill. This meeting, however, went far beyond
                    replacing the secretary-treasurer: it unveiled a totally new slate of officers. Bowles turned over
                    the presidential chair to Libby Macdonald of 
                        New York City
                    . Macdonald, who had served the society in various capacities, was assisted by
                    Vice-president Thusnelda Peemoller, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     schoolteacher. William Barrett, also of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , took Sanders's office. Bowles reported approval of this new arrangement, and
                    he predicted a bright future for Hoosier freethought under the women's charge. He added,
                    significantly, that the time was ripe for all freethinkers to join in a compact organization and
                    "march in solid phalanx against the hosts of superstition."53
            
            Possibly Bowles knew more about the future of the organization than he was willing or able to reveal
                    at the time. When the 1913 convention met at the Hotel Severin in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the delegates voted to erase state boundaries and encompass the entire country within
                    a new society, the National Rationalist Association. The Truth Seeker
                    enthusiastically endorsed the changeover, calling the meeting "an epoch in the progress
                        
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 6, 1911; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 11, 1912.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Covington
                            
                            Republican, April 5, 1912. Sanders anticipated his approaching death and
                            released a statement from 
                                Indianapolis
                             telling of his plans for his cremation and care of his family. He reaffirmed
                            his rationalism and requested that the Freethought Beacon, the Ingersoll Beacon, the Truth Seeker, and the Indiana
                            Rationalist Association each receive fifty dollars; see The Open Road, X
                            (June, 1912), 178–81. On the 1912 convention see the Truth
                            Seeker, November 22, 1913; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 25, 1912. Convention speakers included J.A. Houser, William
                            Barrett, William Maple, and Philip Rappaport.
               
                     of the organized rationalist movement in the 
                        United States
                    ."54 The freethought press described the move as the
                    natural evolution of the Indiana society from small beginnings to a body of wide influence and
                    efficiency. Its old name, with its local connotations, did not fit present realities. The shift
                    elevated the onetime Indiana association to an equal footing with the American Secular Union, but
                    readers were assured that corrosive competition would not be the result. The National Rationalist
                    Association would concentrate on establishing lecture centers and a speakers' bureau. The
                    American Secular Union would continue to lobby for freethought goals in judicial and legislative
                        quarters.55
            
            The membership, after rejecting a communication urging that the convention embrace socialism in its
                    creed, consented to a revised platform that Bowles had helped draft. It enunciated a positive
                    rationalism, stressing freethought as a constructive movement "with a soul, an invigorating
                    principle of life."56 Macdonald, president of the defunct Indiana body,
                    held the same position in the new national organization. The vice-presidents were Marshall J.
                    Gauvin, a Canadian; William Plotts, a Californian; Bowles; and Maple. Charles F. Sprading, president
                    of the 
                        Los Angeles
                     Liberal Club, occupied the offices of secretary-treasurer and national lecturer. The
                    National Rationalist Association immediately affiliated with the International Freethought
                        Federation.57
            
            At the time of the 1913 reorganization, Indiana, 
                        Ohio
                    , and 
                        South Carolina
                     had the only state leagues in the country, and each enrolled persons from outside the
                    state. The geographically broad membership coupled with freethought's historical
                    predilection for national alliances encouraged such regional 
                  
                     54
                            Truth Seeker, November 22, 1913; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 9, 1913; 
                                Indianapolis
                             News, November 25, 1912.
                  
                     55
                            Truth Seeker, November 22, 1913.
                  
                            56
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     57 The organizers of the 1913 meeting apparently had settled on the
                            name International Rationalist Association for the new society but modified their vision
                            before convention time; Truth Seeker, November 1, 1913. The platform of
                            the National Rationalist Association affirmed "equal freedom… equal
                            rights for man, woman, and child." Among the participants at the 1913 convention
                            was Harriet Noble, a leading Indiana suffragette from 
                                Indianapolis
                            , who taught at 
                                Butler
                             University from 1883 to 1893. The welcoming address was given by Ollah P. Toph,
                            also of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , a Spiritualist minister, poet, musician, and lecturer. Other Hoosiers
                            identified at the meeting, which comprised representatives from eight states, included
                            William Winston, an 
                                Indianapolis
                             real estate dealer, Eli Reese of 
                                Greenfield
                            , A.J. Hornung of 
                                Greensburg
                            , and A.B. Cookerly of South 
                                Milford
                            .
               
                     societies to work toward a united rationalism. In
                    Indiana's case considerations other than its distended membership may have accelerated the
                    quest for an all-encompassing freethought organization. For one thing, the failure of the American
                    Rationalist Association probably shifted much responsibility to the Indiana contingent and its state
                    society. In all likelihood Bowles and Sanders anticipated leading the Indiana association into the
                    national arena eventually. This goal may have been reached earlier than expected for unforeseen
                    reasons. The death of Sanders in 1912 robbed the budding society of a youthful, vigorous leader and
                    an intrepid disseminator of freethought convictions. More important, evidence suggests that prior to
                    the fourth convention, in 1912, the Indiana body was on the verge of collapse. A retrospective
                    report in the Truth Seeker in 1915 states that in 1912 Libby Macdonald had been
                    called to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to shore up the flagging society, which then had a membership of fewer than fifty and
                    an excess of debts.58 Presumably, the well-attended meetings of the first
                    several years had not produced enough dues-paying members. The membership fees and the sale of The Light of Reason, plus gratuities, were insufficient to meet society expenses.
                    Thus, far from being a body of marked efficiency and progressive influence, it had declined to a
                    point where decisive action was essential.
            That a set of conditions existed that rendered improbable the society's continuance in its
                    present form seemed axiomatic to Macdonald, and probably to Bowles also. To others, the situation
                    may not have looked so clear-cut. It is suggestive of an underlying resistance to the change that
                    one correspondent felt it necessary to report that the new national association "could not
                    have been prevented by any individual. It sprang from a settled and increasing demand of
                    Freethinkers throughout the land for such an organization, and not from the impetuosity or private
                    ambitions of any individual or group of persons."59 Perhaps the
                    intrusion of Macdonald into local affairs ruffled some rank and file. The problem may have been
                    aggravated by her success in persuading Marshall Gauvin, the young "Canadian
                    Ingersoll," to join her in 
                        Indianapolis
                     before the 1913 meeting and help her shape a new society.60 Even if
                    there was a consensus on the necessity of converting to a nationwide society, the nature of the new
                    organization most certainly provoked 
                  
                     58
                            Truth Seeker, August 28, 1915.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., November 22, 1913.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., April 6, 1918.
               
                     sharp disagreement. According to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Evening Sun, the purpose of the 1913 gathering was the founding of a
                    "national political party" to be named the Free party.61 The
                        Truth Seeker avoided specifics, but it did note that the convention's
                    opening session had considered "certain propositions for political activity and similar
                    matters, which were voted down."62
            
            There is, then, at least some evidence that the transition was not smooth and harmonious. Perhaps
                    making matters worse, Hoosiers were not awarded any chief offices except Bowles's
                    vice-presidency, typically an honorary position. Furthermore, the National Rationalist Association
                    did not have its headquarters in the state. Macdonald initially directed the society from 
                        New York City
                    ; by the fall of 1914 the address had changed to 
                        San Francisco
                     and subsequently to 
                        Los Angeles
                    . On the West Coast the association had moderate success in placing lecturers in the
                    field and winning affiliations from established groups, including some 
                        German
                     leagues. In August, 1915, its first and only known convention took place in 
                        San Francisco
                    . The war intervened, and apparently antagonisms between American and 
                        German
                     members split the organization. Martin Bunge, a leader of the 
                        German
                     societies, took on the presidency, but it is unclear if the association survived after
                    1915. Macdonald left the National Rationalist Association in 1915 and launched the Rationalist
                    Association of North America, another transient body. By 1918 she had shifted to the East Coast as
                    an official with the newly formed 
                        Boston
                     Rationalist Society.63
            
            In any event, from 1913 until at least the mid-1920s, organized freethought practically disappeared
                    in Indiana, and what organization existed was of little consequence. In early 1914 a club calling
                    itself the Truth Seekers met on Tuesdays in the Chamber of Commerce Building in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . James A. Dart, an accountant, was president.64 By 1918 Isaiah
                    Miller, a founder of the former Indiana Rationalist Association, informed freethinkers that
                    "today your humble servant stands alone as the one oak in the forest to receive the jolts
                    for his principles."65 In the same year Maurice M. Hollingsworth, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     real estate agent, could discover no rationalist society in 
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Evening Sun, November 9, 1913.
                  
                     62
                            Truth Seeker, November 22, 1913.
                  
                     63
                            Ibid., March 13, 1915, July 21, 1917.
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., January 3, 1914.
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., January 18, 1918.
               
                     the city, but he along with eight "young lawyers,
                    doctors, and college grads" wished to start one. Whatever the outcome of his efforts,
                    Hollingsworth wrote the Truth Seeker in 1920 to say he had joined the Guardians of
                    Liberty, a secret anti-Catholic society, which he perceived as rationalistic.66
                    Benjamin H. Cortney advertised a new freethought association named the Scientific Educational
                    Society of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1921, but the papers carried no further information on this effort.67 Finally, in 1921, Miller once again reported a conversation with M.A. Boulden of 
                        Frankfort
                    , Indiana, a member of the old Indiana society, and R.W. Jones of Whiteland on the need
                    for a new state organization of freethinkers.68
            
            Indiana's freethought may have been organizationally weak after 1913, but several of the
                    leaders of the Indiana Rationalist Association went on to hold important posts at the national
                    level. Both Bowles and John Wesley Whicker played significant roles in efforts to stabilize the
                    decaying American Secular Union. On several occasions between 1914 and 1924 the men assumed
                    responsibilities as vice-president or acting president. Whicker functioned as president in 1923 and
                        1924.69 Neither man, however, could revive an organization that had been
                    declining for a quarter of a century. In 1924 Whicker resigned the presidency and moved to 
                        California
                    . In the same year Bowles died at the age of eighty-seven. The Truth
                    Seeker eulogized the old war horse as a nationally prominent freethinker and "almost a
                    son of thunder with his pen."70 A new body, the American Rationalist
                    Association, began in 1924 in 
                        Chicago
                     precisely because, the proponents argued, the American Secular Union had failed to do
                    full justice to the cause of freethought.71 These developments effectively ended
                    the American Secular Union, which expired within a year or two. These events also closed the period
                    in American freethought when Hoosiers played a key role in rationalism's organizational
                    endeavors.
            
               
                  66
                        Ibid., June 1, 1918, August 28, 1920.
               
                  67
                        Ibid., December 17, 1921. Cortney related in early 1922 that the Guardians of
                        Liberty had been organized in 1911 and that his involvement in the clandestine group dated from
                        1913; ibid., January 14, 1922.
               
                  68
                        Ibid., October 8, 1921.
               
                  69
                        Ibid., December 13, 1919. In 1920, when Marshall Gauvin was president and
                        Libby Macdonald and Whicker were vice-presidents of the American Secular Union, Edward Morgan, a
                        native of 
                            Noblesville
                        , Indiana, was secretary. Morgan died in the middle of his term; ibid., July 31, 1920.
               
                  70
                        Ibid., May 10, 1924.
               
                  71
                        Ibid., March 29, 1924.
            
            
            Indiana had experimented with, and experienced the frustrations of, organizational freethought. The
                    Indiana Rationalist Association did inject new leadership and interest into a lackluster freethought
                    movement. Bowles, Sanders, Whicker, and others brought to their project a heritage of Hoosier
                    skepticism. Doubtless they hoped that their society would lead to the fielding of that one great
                    army of like-minded and self-sacrificing freethinkers. Co-workers from surrounding states made
                    common cause with the Indiana group, but the initial enthusiasm and support, as measured by
                    convention attendance, dried up rapidly. Then, instead of disbanding, the organization enlisted new
                    administrators and a strategy for recovery. The tactic involved promoting the old state league to
                    one of national proportions under directors more representative of the country's
                    freethought constituency. The outcome of this maneuver, touted as opening a new epoch in American
                    freethought, instead ended rationalist organization in Indiana and led to a thwarted venture in
                    guiding national freethought. Notwithstanding these organizational failures, Indiana's
                    leaders achieved distinction within the movement far beyond their state activities. When the history
                    of twentieth-century freethought is written, the brief course of the Indiana Rationalist
                    Association, along with the men and women who managed its affairs, should be accorded due
                notice.
         
         
         
            The Political Realignment of Black Voters in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1924
            
                    William W. Giffin
                    ∗
                
            Election statistics would seem to support the view that Afro-American voters were remarkably devoted
                    to the Republican party from the Civil War until 1936 when, for the first time, a majority of black
                    voters in the 
                        United States
                     cast their ballots for a Democratic presidential candidate. Many historians and other
                    writers have implied that the alienation of blacks from the Republican party came suddenly after
                    1932, explaining the transfer of the black vote to the Democrats in terms of changes occurring
                    during the early New Deal period.1 Actually the shift in black political
                    allegiance did not occur abruptly in the first term of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Black
                    disaffection with the Republican party originated long before 1936 and was clearly evident in
                    election campaigns during the 1920s, although the general black voting pattern was not basically
                    altered before the New Deal.2 The 1924 election in 
                  
                     ∗ William W. Giffin is professor of history at Indiana
                            State University, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                  
                     1 John A. Garraty, A Short History of the American
                            Nation (
                                New York
                            , 1977), 428; T. Harry Williams, Richard N. Current, and Frank Freidel, American History: A Survey (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1979), II, 669, 674; John M. Allswang, A House for all Peoples:
                                Ethnic Politics in 
                                    Chicago
                                , 1890–1936 (
                                Lexington
                            , 1971), 205–206; Lewis M. Killian, The Impossible
                                Revolution? Black Power and the American Dream (
                                New York
                            , 1969), 37; Rita Werner Gordon, "The Change in the Political Alignment
                            of 
                                Chicago
                            's Negroes During the New Deal," Journal of
                                American History, LVI (December, 1969), 584; David Burner, The
                                Politics of Provincialism: The Democratic Party in Transition, 1918–1932 (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 237; Harold F. Gosnell, Negro Politicians: The Rise of
                                Negro Politics in 
                                    Chicago
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1966), viii; Samuel Lubell, White and Black: Test of a
                            Nation (
                                New York
                            , 1964), 52–61; Henry Lee Moon, Balance of Power: The
                                Negro Vote (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1948), 17–19.
                  
                     2 Some historians have discussed black dissatisfaction with the
                            Republican party prior to the New Deal, but detailed studies of black Republican insurgency
                            in northern cities during the 1920s are lacking. See Richard B. Sherman, The
                                Republican Party and Black America: From McKinley to Hoover, 1896–1933 (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1973); Lawrence Grossman, The Democratic Party and the
                                Negro: Northern and National Politics, 1868–92 (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill.,
               
                    
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     provides an example of the antecedents of the defection of black voters from the
                    Republican party in 1936. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     study illustrates three factors that were characteristic of black voting by 1924: many
                    blacks were strongly motivated by their interest in the principle of equality before the law; a
                    significant number of blacks were alienated by the Republican party; and black political campaigns
                    were structurally complex.
            The 1924 election results in 
                        Indianapolis
                     show an extraordinary departure from the national black voting pattern. The majority of
                    blacks in the 
                        United States
                     had voted for Republican candidates in every national election since the Civil War and
                    also in almost all local and state elections throughout the country. But in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1924 the Democratic state and national tickets carried almost every predominantly
                    black precinct.3 Why did the black voters of 
                        Indianapolis
                     bolt the Republican party twelve years before the national defection of blacks from
                    that organization? Did the circumstances and issues causing the alienation of black Republicans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1924 foreshadow those bringing about the national shift in the black vote in 1936?
            If one accepts that black voters were primarily influenced by party and candidate attitudes toward
                    racial issues involving fundamental principles, it is apparent that the 1924 
                        Indianapolis
                     election results presaged the later shift in the black vote nationally. The principle
                    of equality before the law without regard to color had been more closely identified with the
                    Republican than with the Democratic party in the minds of blacks since the Civil War. The Republican
                    party was associated with Abraham Lincoln, the Emancipation Proclamation, and support for the
                    thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth amendments to the Constitution; the Democratic party was yoked
                    to the white South, which had defended slavery, and to opposition to the postwar constitutional
                    amendments. But the distinct perception 
                  1976); Emma Lou Thornbrough, "The 
                                Brownsville
                             Episode and the Negro Vote," 
                        Mississippi
                                Valley Historical Review, XLIV (December, 1957), 469–83;
                            Arthur S. Link, "The Negro as a Factor in the Campaign of 1912," Journal of Negro History, XXXII (January, 1947), 81–99; August
                            Meier, "The Negro and the Democratic Party, 1875–1915," Phylon, XVII (Summer, 1956), 173–91; William Giffin,
                            "Black Insurgency in the Republican Party of 
                                Ohio
                            , 1920–1932," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 History, LXXXII (Winter-Spring, 1973), 25–45.
                  
                     3 Lionel F. Artis to Walter F. White, June 18, 1926, Branch Files,
                            1913–1939, Indiana, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , container G-63, Records of the National Association for the Advancement of
                            Colored People (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            ).
               
                     of one party as the champion of the citizenship rights of
                    blacks and the other as hostile to them was blurred during the late nineteenth century and early
                    twentieth century. During the 1870s the Democratic party took a "new departure"
                    and thereafter moderated its racial policies, and the Republican party, particularly after the 1876
                    presidential election, steadily retreated from its earlier strong position in defense of the legal
                    rights of black people. During the 1920s the Republican party almost completely abandoned the cause
                    of black rights. Meanwhile, a small minority of Afro-Americans voted Democratic, and some leading
                    blacks urged Afro-Americans to liberate themselves from the Republican party by becoming political
                        independents.4 Yet nothing occurred to reverse the traditional perception of
                    the majority of blacks that the Republicans were more sympathetic to them on principle than the
                    Democrats, and they voted accordingly. The alteration of this perception among blacks in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1924 explains the shift to the Democrats that year.
            In 1924 
                        Indianapolis
                     blacks associated the Republican party of Indiana with supporters of racially
                    discriminatory views and practices, particularly with the Ku Klux Klan, which had been organized in
                    Indiana after World War I. The rise of the Klan in Indiana accompanied the extension of segregation
                    of blacks in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the 1920s. An image of a Klan-dominated Republican party of Indiana grew out of
                    the primary campaign and primary election of 1924. The Klan endorsed a slate of candidates for
                    Republican nominations for local and state offices. These candidates included Secretary of State Ed
                    Jackson, who was seeking the Republican gubernatorial nomination. Jackson made only a minimal effort
                    to attract black voters, who had traditionally constituted a significant bloc of the Republican
                    voter support in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Klan-backed candidate employed the usual Republican means of appealing for black
                    votes, including political advertisements in black newspapers and campaign activity by a small cadre
                    of black patronage workers. Jackson's black campaign workers stressed the secretary of
                    state's appointments of blacks to patronage jobs, and his advertisements in the black press
                    carried a statement supporting just law enforcement without regard to race.5
            
            
               
                  4 See note 2.
               
                  5 Emma Lou Thornbrough, Since Emancipation: A Short History
                            of Indiana Negroes, 1863–1963 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1963]), 31–32; idem, "Segregation in Indiana during the Klan
                        Era of the 1920's," 
                     Mississippi Valley
                            Historical Review, XLVII 
            
            
            In central Indiana, Jackson's principal opponent for the Republican gubernatorial nomination
                    was 
                        Indianapolis
                     mayor Samuel Lewis Shank, who had assumed the leadership of the local anti-Klan forces.
                    Mayor Shank launched a vigorous campaign for the black vote, making the Klan his central issue. The
                    Shank for Governor Campaign was initiated at a meeting of black precinct committeemen of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . 
                        Marion County
                     (
                        Indianapolis
                    ) Republican Chairman William M. Freeman stated: "The real purpose of this
                    meeting is to decide whether the Republican party shall be a party founded upon the principles laid
                    down in 1776" or on those of the Klan. "So the question tonight is not,"
                    he added, "are you a Democrat or Republican. This campaign is based upon the question
                    ‘Are you a KKK or not?’ There are two leading candidates for Governor in
                    Indiana. They are Ed Jackson, the leader of the KKK and Samuel Lewis Shank."6 Appealing further to blacks, the Shank administration slated a black man in every ward
                    and precinct in the city, a first in the history of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Shank campaign was supported by black committeemen; by black patronage workers of
                    the city administration, such as Henry A. Fleming; and by some black clergymen, including the
                    Reverend Benjamin F. Farrell of Mt. Paran Baptist Church. Also working in Shank's interest
                    were the local black candidates for state representative and state senator on the Republican ticket,
                    Thomas B. Dexter and Dr. James R. Norrel respectively. Shank closed his statewide campaign in 
                        Indianapolis
                     at a meeting of some 1,500 black persons, during which he again vigorously denounced
                    the Klan.7
            
            The results of the Republican primary election in 
                        Indianapolis
                     kept the Klan issue alive. Jackson and almost the entire Klan slate of candidates on
                    the Republican ticket were nominated. The two local black candidates for nominations for state
                    offices were defeated. In the predominantly black precincts there were large majorities for
                    anti-Klan candidates, but the voter turnout in black areas was at best average while the vote in
                    white areas was heavy. A daily newspaper explained that the Jackson workers tried to keep the black
                    vote to a minimum because Shank was expected to be a heavy favorite among 
                  (March, 1961), 594–618; Kenneth T. Jackson, The Ku Klux Klan in
                                the City, 1915–1930 (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 144–60; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, April 5, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, May 2, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 7, 1924.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, April 5, 1924.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 4, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 5, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, April 12, 1924.
               
                    
                    
                  ED JACKSON
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library.
               
                    
                  SAMUEL LEWIS SHANK
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society.
               
                     blacks. Also, in most black precincts many voters were turned
                    away from the polls having arrived too late.8 In reference to the primary
                    results a black newspaper concluded: 
                        In the first place it was demonstrated… that the Ku Klux Klan has captured boot
                            and breeches, the Republican party in Indiana and have [sic] turned what has been
                            historically an organization of constitutional freedom into an agency for the promotion of
                            religious and racial hate. Nobody now denies the Ku Klux Klan is the dominating power in
                            Indiana Republican politics. In fact, the Republican party exists in Indiana today only in
                            name. Its place has been usurped by the Klan purposes and leadership and issues. The fight
                            in the future will be purely a contest between the Klan and anti-Klan forces.9
                  
                    
                
            The primary results indicated to blacks that the Republican party of Indiana was less likely to
                    defend the principles that were of concern to them than was the Democratic party in the state. In
                    addition, during the primary period and the weeks following it the Democratic party in Indiana moved
                    cautiously to build an image of the state party as an opponent of prejudice and discrimination on
                    grounds of race as well as nationality and religion. In the primary the winner of the Democratic
                    gubernatorial nomination was Carleton B. McCulloch, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     physician. McCulloch had made a low-key appeal to black voters, including a political
                    advertisement in the black press of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He had announced that he was not and had never been a member of the Ku Klux Klan, in
                    contrast to the Republican gubernatorial nominee, who had not denied accusations that he was a Klan
                        member.10 Also, the Democratic organization had slated a black man, John
                    Bankett of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , for state representative. Bankett's victory in the primary made him the first
                    black man nominated for that state office by 
                        Marion County
                     Democrats. The local black press observed that most of the white Republicans in the
                    city voted for Klan-endorsed candidates, thereby defeating the black candidates for Republican
                    nominations for state offices, while most of the local white Democrats voted for Bankett.11 Following the primary the Democratic state convention unanimously adopted a
                    platform containing an anti-Klan plank, although the words Ku Klux Klan were not used. The
                    "Freedom and Liberty Plank" reaffirmed the party's devotion to the
                    nation's fundamental 
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 6, 7, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 7, 8, 1924.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, May 17, 1924.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, February 22, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, April 19, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, November 1, 1924.
                  
                     11 Thornbrough, Since Emancipation, 32; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, May 17, 1924.
               
                     principles and stated: "the Republican party of our
                    state has, for the time being, retired from the political arena, having been delivered into the
                    hands of an organization which has no place in politics and which promulgates doctrines which tend
                    to break down the safeguards which the Constitution throws around every citizen, and repugnant to
                    the principles of government advocated by 
                        Lincoln
                     and [Indiana Civil War Republican governor] Morton." The plank also stated:
                    "We will not permit the issues to resolve themselves into a fight either for or against any
                    race, creed or religion."12
            
            The 1924 Indiana primary results concerned Afro-Americans throughout the nation. The nomination of
                    the Klan-endorsed gubernatorial candidate in Indiana was seen as an egregious example of the
                    regressive racial policy of the Republican party, which had already alienated many blacks. By 1923
                    many black leaders had a list of grievances against the Republican party; of particular concern was
                    its failure to effect the enactment of federal anti-lynching legislation.13 In
                    consequence, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) had advocated
                    black political independence from the Republican party by proposing "a new political
                    emancipation" in 1923.14 Thus in 1924 the national office of the NAACP
                    did not hesitate to criticize the Republican party of Indiana regarding the Ku Klux Klan. Almost
                    immediately following Jackson's nomination the national press service of the NAACP issued a
                    press release advising Indiana blacks "to make the Klan the paramount issue" and
                    to vote against the party or candidates not repudiating Klan support.15 At the
                    same time, NAACP Secretary James Weldon Johnson wrote to an executive officer of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     NAACP branch inquiring about the Klan situation and black opinion regarding it. 
                  
                     12
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, June 13, 1924.
                  
                     13 During the early 1920s the national Republican party adopted
                            platform planks on civil and political rights that were more vague than before; attempted to
                            reduce the participation of blacks in the affairs of the national party; was generally
                            indifferent to the issue of federal protection of the right to vote; did not discontinue
                            racial segregation of federal employees; and gave fewer federal appointments to blacks than
                            it had before the 1920s. The national Republican party's relationship to blacks
                            during the decade is thoroughly discussed by Richard B. Sherman, "Republicans and
                            Negroes: The Lessons of Normalcy," Phylon, XXVII (Spring, 1966),
                            63–79, and idem, "The Harding Administration and the Negro: An
                            Opportunity Lost," Journal of Negro History, XLIX (July, 1964),
                            151–68.
                  
                     14 NAACP, Fourteenth Annual Report, 1923 (
                                New York
                            , 1924), 40–41.
                  
                     15 Press release, May 12, 1924, Administrative File, Subject File,
                            1910–1940, Politics—general, 1924–1929, C-390, NAACP
                            Records.
               
                     Johnson also asked for advice about how the national office
                    might cooperate with blacks in Indiana "to secure the very best results."16 The branch officer replied that "the Negro and the Republican party
                    have come to a parting of the way…."17 The reply included
                    clippings from 
                        Indianapolis
                     black newspapers which formed the basis of an NAACP news release stating that Indiana
                    blacks "are prepared to throw off their traditional allegiance to the Republican Party and
                    vote the straight Democratic ticket in the coming national election, unless the Republican Party
                    repudiates its Ku Klux Klan allies."18
            
            The NAACP also began to use "the situation in Indiana" to pressure the national
                    leadership of the Republican party to take a stand against the Ku Klux Klan. The NAACP privately and
                    publicly requested the resignation of 
                        United States
                     senator James Watson of Indiana from the Senate Committee on Privileges and Elections
                    then investigating the contested election of a Klan-endorsed candidate for the 
                        United States
                     Senate from 
                        Texas
                    . The NAACP made the request upon learning that Senator Watson had endorsed Jackson for
                    governor of Indiana. The NAACP press release regarding Watson was "carried big in western
                    and southern newspapers."19 NAACP Secretary Johnson then attempted to
                    induce President Calvin Coolidge to take a public position regarding the Klan. In a letter sent to
                    the president and subsequently released to the press, Johnson stated: 
                        Colored people throughout the 
                                United States
                            , but especially in the North, are waiting for an unequivocal statement from you
                            as head of the Republican Party on the Ku Klux Klan….
                        The N.A.A.C.P. is moved to make this request in view of the situation in Indiana where the
                            Republican Nominee for Governor was given and publicly accepted the endorsement and the
                            votes of the Klan forces and where, furthermore, Senator James Watson from that State, an
                            acknowledged administration leader, not only offered his support to the Klan candidate but
                            did so without by any word or phrase depreciating the nature of that candidate's
                                backing.20
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     16 James Weldon Johnson to Freeman B. Ransom, May 14, 1924, ibid.
                  
                  
                     17 Ransom to Johnson, May 16, 1924, ibid.
                  
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, quoted in a press release headed "Indiana Negroes
                            Threaten to Vote Democratic Ticket in Next Election," May 19, 1924, ibid.
                  
                  
                     19 Johnson to Senate Committee on Privileges and Elections, May 14,
                            1924, ibid.; press release, "N.A.A.C.P. Active in Anti-Klan
                            Fight," May 16, 1924, ibid.; Johnson to White, May 20, 1924,
                            Administrative File, Special Correspondence, 1912–1939, Johnson, James Weldon,
                            1918–1938, C-66, ibid.
                  
                     20 Johnson to Calvin Coolidge, May 29, 1924, C-66, NAACP Records; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, June 7, 1924.
               
                     President Coolidge did not respond to Johnson's
                        letter.21 In June, 1924, shortly after Coolidge's nomination by the
                    Republican national convention, the fifteenth annual conference of the NAACP met in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . At this conference the NAACP passed a resolution criticizing the Republicans for many
                    shortcomings and urging blacks to vote independently without regard to party labels. Addressing the
                    NAACP conference, Secretary Johnson stated: "The biggest single political issue before him
                    [the American Negro] is that of the Ku Klux Klan." After outlining the situation in
                    Indiana, Johnson concluded: 
                        It has been left for the Democrats in that State to denounce and disavow the Klan. It is,
                            therefore, the plain duty of all colored voters in Indiana to vote against the Republican
                            candidate for Governor and against every other Republican candidate in that state who is
                            touched with the tar brush of the Ku Klux Klan.22
                  
                    
                
            The summer and fall campaigns to win the votes of the black electorate of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the general election of 1924 were complex. Participants in the campaigns included
                    newly formed political associations, old-line political organizations, nonpolitical associations,
                    experienced politicians, political novices, and newspapers. Participants with national and state
                    connections as well as local elements were involved in the campaigns. Among the campaign activities
                    were voter registration drives, meetings, speeches, posters, parades, advertisements, and other
                    political tactics, fair and foul.
            The organized local black opposition to the Republican party in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the 1924 campaign included the Independent Voters League and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch of the NAACP. The Independent Voters League was formed during the campaign as a
                    black "ANTI-KLAN ORGANIZATION," as its letterhead stated. The objective of the
                    league was to eliminate the Klan's political influence by contributing to the defeat of the
                    Republican county and state tickets by urging blacks to vote Democratic in the county and state
                    elections. In pursuance of the objective, plans were made to obtain a full registration of black
                    voters and to see that they turned out on election day. With an office on West 
                        Michigan
                     Street, telephone service, and stationery with letterhead, the Independent Voters
                    League was 
                  
                     21 It was speculated that the alliance between the Republican party
                            and the Klan in Indiana explained Coolidge's failure to criticize the Klan during
                            the campaign. Thornbrough, Since Emancipation, 32; Johnson to Coolidge,
                            September 15, 1924, C-66, NAACP Records.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, July 12, 1924.
               
                     evidently well financed. The league also was impressively
                    organized from its inception. The organizational meeting in August followed a period of preliminary
                    work earlier in the summer. The structure of the organization included a president, vice-president,
                    secretary, treasurer, and sixteen directors. In addition, an executive organizer and assistant were
                    in charge of daily administration. The league planned to have a committeeman and committeewoman in
                    every precinct in the city.23
            
            The Independent Voters League was broadly and enthusiastically received within the local black
                    community. At the time of its organization the league claimed to represent fifteen local black civic
                    associations and over two thousand members.24 The league officers, all of whom
                    were black, included a selection of successful and respected local leaders. Among the officers were
                    three lawyers, four physicians, five clergymen, and one businessman. Also among the officers were
                    two former Republican candidates for office, a former Republican patronage worker, and a current
                    Republican precinct politician. Most of the officers had actively supported the Republican party in
                    the past.25
            
            The NAACP branch in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was alarmed by the influence of the Ku Klux Klan in the Republican party as evidenced
                    by the spring primary results. The NAACP branch had actively fought the Klan earlier, successfully
                    opposing the use of a public hall by the Klan in 1922, and it readily joined the fight in 1924.
                    Apparently deciding to concentrate its efforts in one major "show of force," the
                    NAACP branch organized a mass anti-Klan demonstration shortly before the general election.
                    Cooperating with its national headquarters in 
                        New York City
                    , the local NAACP requested the advice and presence of 
                  
                     23 The record indicates the existence of two other local black
                            organizations opposed to the Republican party and the Klan—the Indiana Democracy
                            League and an organization of first voters—but does not reveal their campaign
                            activities, if any; ibid., July 12, August 23, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 19, 1924; Henry A. Fleming to Johnson, August 27, 1924,
                            C-390, NAACP Records.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 19, 1924.
                  
                     25 Specifically, William E. Henderson (league president), William S.
                            Henry and Freeman B. Ransom were lawyers; H. W. Armistead, Mark D. Battles, Abraham J. King,
                            and James R. Norrel were physicians; Benjamin F. Farrell, Henry L. Herod, Nathaniel A.
                            Seymour, Charles S. Williams, and Frank F. Young were clergymen; Herbert C. Willis was a
                            businessman; Thomas M. Dexter and James R. Norrel were former candidates; Henry A. Fleming
                            (league executive organizer) was a former patronage worker; and Beverly Howard was a
                            precinct politician. These occupations are listed in the 
                        
                                    Indianapolis City
                                 Directory, 1924 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924). See also Fleming to Johnson, August 27, 1924, C-390, NAACP Records; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, November 5, 1924.
               
                     some of its national officers during the political campaign.
                    While ostensibly nonpartisan, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch of the NAACP had the same political objective as the Independent Voters
                    League—the defeat of Klan-backed Republican candidates. Although they were separate
                    organizations, the NAACP branch and the league were in obvious sympathy with each other and were
                    allied on one project, the October 19 mass demonstration which they jointly sponsored.26
            
            The Democratic party of 
                        Marion County
                     also participated in the anti-Klan campaign in black 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The press reported that for the first time in history the Democrats had an efficient
                    and hard-working organization in the black precincts. The speakers' bureau of the county
                    Democratic committee sent black and white speakers to political meetings in the black precincts. The
                    Democratic committee promised to help the 
                        Indianapolis
                     NAACP branch in its anti-Klan fight. The NAACP branch declined to accept financial
                    contributions from the Democratic party in order to remain officially independent of political
                    parties; however, in view of the foregoing, it seems likely that the Democratic organization helped
                    finance the activities of the Independent Voters League.27
            
            The organized forces fighting the influence of the Ku Klux Klan in the Republican party of Indiana
                    had strong backing from four of the five black newspapers in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Freeman had urged black voters to be politically independent even before the
                    advent of the Klan issue. The publisher of the Freeman, George L. Knox, had long been a Republican
                    politico, but, gradually alienated by the racial stands and policies of the state party, he became a
                    black Republican insurgent. By 1920 
                        Knox
                     advocated black loyalty to the Republican party in national elections but independence
                    in state and local contests. In the Klan election of 1924 the Freeman,
                    
                        Knox
                    's voice, urged blacks to vote the straight Democratic ticket nationally and
                    locally. 
                        Knox
                     also participated in 
                  
                     26 Three of the twenty-two officers of the Independent Voters League
                            were also officers of the local NAACP branch; they were Abraham J. King, Freeman B. Ransom,
                            and Lucas B. Willis. See 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, November 26, 1921 (clipping), G-63, NAACP Records; Harry D.
                            Evans to White, March 18, 1922, ibid.; O. W. Langston [
                                Indianapolis
                             branch president] to Robert W. Bagnall, September 11, 1924, ibid.; Johnson to Langston, September 15, 1924, ibid.; Langston and
                            R. B. H. Smith to William Pickens, September 25, 1924, ibid. See also note
                            25.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, November 4, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 20, 21, November 1, 1924; Langston to Bagnall, September 11,
                            1924, G-63, NAACP Records; Johnson to Langston, September 15, 1924, ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  GEORGE L. KNOX
                  
                  Reproduced from Willard B. Gatewood, Jr., ed., Slave and Freeman:
                                The Autobiography of George L. Knox (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1979), frontispiece.
                the meetings of the Independent Voters League.28 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Recorder, published for twenty-seven years by George P. Stewart, had also
                    supported the Republican party in the past, but in reaction to the Klan-dominated Republican party,
                    the Recorder approved of blacks voting the straight Democratic ticket in 1924.29 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Informer seems to have been the house organ of the NAACP branch and the
                    Independent Voters League, because it boldly featured the activities and viewpoint of the organized
                    anti-Klan forces. The Informer viewpoint of the organized anti-Klan forces. The
                        Informer began publication during the 1924 campaign, one of many 
                  
                     28 Willard B. Gatewood, Jr., Slave and Freeman: The
                                Autobiography of George L. Knox (
                                Lexington
                            , 1979), 24–31; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 6, 1924.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Word, September 5, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, quoted in press release, May 19, 1924, C-390, NAACP
                        Records.
               
                     short-lived black newspapers created during election campaigns
                    for political purposes.30 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    World reflected the Democratic viewpoint of its publisher, Alexander E. Manning,
                    who was a veteran of local and national black Democratic politics. The assistant editor of the World, John C. Bankett, was a Democratic nominee for state representative in
                        1924.31
            
            Most of the leaders of the black campaign against the Klan-backed Republican party of Indiana were
                    highly educated professionals and businessmen who were accustomed to civic leadership in the black
                    community. For example, Freeman B. Ransom, a lawyer, was a member of the Board of Directors of the
                    Independent Voters League and an executive officer of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch of the NAACP. Ransom, a graduate of Walden University of 
                  Nashville, Tennessee
               , was the manager and attorney of the Madam C. J. Walker
                    Manufacturing Corporation, perhaps the most successful black business enterprise in the 
                        United States
                    . Oscar W. Langston, a dentist and graduate of Indiana Dental College, was president of
                    the local NAACP. Abraham J. King, a physician, was treasurer of the Independent Voters League and an
                    executive officer of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     NAACP branch. King had received his degree from Indiana Medical College. Clergyman
                    Henry L. Herod was a director of the Independent Voters League. Herod was pastor of the Second
                    Christian Church and a graduate of Hiram College of 
                        Ohio
                    . These men had a record of participation in local black social, civic, professional,
                    and religious associations.32
            
            Although they were not generally representative of the leadership, a few of the leading figures of
                    the fight against the Ku Klux Klan and the Republican party were black professional politicians, in
                    that they had derived at least some of their income from their political activities. The outstanding
                    case in point was Henry A. Fleming, the vigorous executive organizer of the Independent Voters
                    League. Fleming had held various Republican political patronage jobs, such as deputy 
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Informer, October 11, 1924, G-63, ibid.
                  
                  
                     31 Thornbrough, Since Emancipation, 11, 74; idem,
                            "American Negro Newspapers, 1880–1914," Business
                                History Review, XL (Winter, 1966), 480; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, February 22, June 13, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 1, 1924.
                  
                     32
                            Who's Who in Colored America: A Biographical Dictionary of Notable
                                Living Persons of Negro Descent in America, 1927 (
                                New York
                            , 1927), 115; Who's Who in Colored America: A Biographical
                                Dictionary of Notable Living Persons of African Descent in America,
                                1930–1931–1932 (
                                Brooklyn
                            , 1933), 208, 255, 261, 350.
               
                    
                    
                  FREEMAN B. RANSOM
                  
                  Courtesy of Stanley Nelson.
                sheriff and superintendent of the division of ash collection. In 1924 Fleming managed a
                    cafeteria and worked as a city hall custodian, a patronage job dispensed by the anti-Klan Republican
                        mayor.33
            
            Locally organized efforts to retain the support of 
                        Indianapolis
                     black voters for the Republican party in the 1924 general election were made largely
                    within the framework of the regular Republican organization of 
                        Marion County
                    . In 1924 the organization attempted to use its customary campaign devices in black 
                        Indianapolis
                    , including campaign activities by a phalanx of black patronage workers organized within
                    the party ward machines typically headed by white ward bosses aided by black lieutenants;
                    expressions of support by black newspapers; and endorsements by black civic leaders, particularly
                    clergymen. Charles H. Brown, a black Civil War veteran and experienced 
                  
                     33
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 20, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, April 5, 1924; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis City
                                 Directory, 1924, p. 683.
               
                     political campaigner, was chosen to serve as the black
                    political organizer at the county level, working out of the office of George V. Coffin, 
                        Marion County
                     Republican chairman.34
                    
                        Brown
                     organized a black Republican county association, of which he was elected president at
                    an organizational meeting attended by about thirty-five black political job holders. 
                        Brown
                    's political bailiwick was the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Fifth Ward, one of the largest wards in the state. 
                        Brown
                    's Fifth Ward was almost solidly black, but its Republican boss, Frank Brattin,
                    was white.35
            
            The black Republican alienation created by the Klan issue compelled the Republican party, according
                    to the Freeman, "to use in the field a group of Negro workers
                    inexperienced in organization work, and of very doubtful ability."36 In
                    fact, with the exception of Charles Brown, the black politicians who played the most prominent roles
                    in the Republican campaign to retain the black vote in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were connected not with the local Republican ward machines but with state politics (for
                    example, Joseph Broyles, a black patronage worker in the office of Secretary of State Ed Jackson) or
                    with politics in other Indiana cities (as was Mrs. Grace Evans, a black political figure in 
                        Terre Haute
                    ). Similarly, William H. (Big Jack) Jackson, noted as the "main [black]
                    speaker" of the Republican campaign in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , had not been among the front-line black political leaders of the city in the past. He
                    had been defeated for Republican precinct committeeman in the Sixth Ward in 1922 but was at the
                    forefront of the 1924 Republican campaign in black 
                        Indianapolis
                    , serving both as a speaker and as publisher of the Ledger, the single
                    black newspaper in the city supporting Ed Jackson and the rest of the Klan-endorsed Republican
                        ticket.37 Indeed, it was reported that the Ledger was
                    financially backed by the Ku Klux Klan.38
            
            
               
                  34 Coffin had been elected county chairman with Klan backing over the
                        anti-Klan candidate at the county convention following the primary election. 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Freeman, April 5, September 20, 1924; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Times, October 6, 1924; Jackson, The Ku Klux Klan in the
                        City, 152.
               
                  35
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Freeman, September 20, October 11, 1924.
               
                  36
                        Ibid., September 27, 1924.
               
                  37
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, May 7, 1924; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Freeman, September 27, 1924; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Ledger, October 25, 1924 (clipping with typed heading mistakenly spelled Leader), G-63, NAACP Records.
               
                  38
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Freeman, September 27, 1924; Thornbrough, "Segregation in Indiana
                        during the Klan Era of the 1920's," p. 612.
            
            
            Denied the bulk of the black newspaper support, the Republican county organization was also resisted
                    by the majority of the black business and professional class in the city, only a few of whom were
                    willing to go on public record as endorsing the Klan-backed Republican ticket. Among those who did
                    stand up for the Republican party were attorney J. Weldon Smith and the Reverend Charles H. Johnson
                    of the Ebenezer Baptist Church.39
            
            Campaign activities by the local forces on both sides of the Klan issue were most intense during the
                    two months prior to the 1924 general election. The anti-Klan organizations, particularly the
                    Independent Voters League, were extremely active from the end of August to election day, maintaining
                    a high degree of awareness about Klan influence in the Republican party and promoting a bandwagon
                    psychology among blacks in favor of the Democratic ticket. The Independent Voters League regularly
                    issued press releases and held public meetings on almost a weekly basis. League press releases
                    announced that thousands of Indiana blacks were leaving the Republican party, urged blacks to
                    register to vote, and publicized recruitment successes, perhaps with some exaggeration. League
                    membership claims were two thousand in August and five thousand in early September. The league
                    announced that it had recruited seven thousand members during a ten-day period at the end of
                    September. Notaries registered black voters at the league office. The political rallies of the
                    league were highly publicized and well attended, usually by hundreds of reportedly enthusiastic
                    persons. A different roster of speakers, largely composed of influential local black personalities,
                    appeared at each meeting. For example, eight black clergymen of 
                        Indianapolis
                     were scheduled to speak at the league's October 13 anti-Klan rally.
                    Collections taken at these rallies partially defrayed league expenses.40
            
            The most dramatic and successful event in the anti-Klan campaign was the October 19 mass
                    demonstration initiated by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     NAACP branch and cosponsored by the Independent Voters League. The thoroughly planned,
                    much-publicized and well-executed rally began with a parade composed of marching bands, an
                    automobile caravan, and marchers 
                  
                     39 Artis to White, June 18, 1926, G-63, NAACP Records; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 20, 27, 1924.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, August 23, September 6, 20, October 4, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 1, 3, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Informer, October 11, 1924, G-63, NAACP Records.
               
                     carrying anti-Klan placards. The main program was held in
                    Tomlinson Hall, a huge public auditorium, and featured black speakers of national reputation. The
                    sponsoring organizations succeeded in turning out a crowd estimated to be as large as seven thousand
                        persons.41 The national office of the NAACP had aided and advised both the
                    NAACP branch and the league in their separate preparations for the demonstration.42
            
            By September, 1924, Democrats in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were in the political fight against the Ku Klux Klan, expecting to make significant
                    inroads into the city's black vote by criticizing the Republican party and the Klan. In
                    September some white Democrats, including Hoosier author Meredith Nicholson, a candidate for the
                    state senate, made speeches in black neighborhoods. White Democratic candidates spoke at some of the
                    political meetings of the Independent Voters League, and Democratic gubernatorial candidate Carleton
                    B. McCulloch spoke at the Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church. In October the
                    speakers' bureau of the Democratic county committee scheduled both black and white
                    speakers, among them state legislature candidate Bankett and former 
                        Indianapolis
                     mayor John W. Holtzman, for appearances in black precincts. On the eve of the election
                    in November the Democratic candidate for governor spoke to two black crowds, one at a meeting of the
                    Independent Voters League and the other at a gathering at Douglass Park.43
            
            Republican leaders were alarmed by the increasing evidence of black defection from the party from
                    mid-September through October. They observed the successful political rallies 
                  
                     41 The nationally known speakers were William H. Lewis, Ferdinand Q.
                            Morton, and William Pickens. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, October 4, 18, 25, 1924, in G-63, NAACP Records; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Informer, October 11, 1924, in ibid.;
                            
                                Richmond
                             (
                                Virginia
                            ) St. Luke's, October 24, 1924 (clipping), in ibid.; Shining Star, October 25, 1924 (clipping), in ibid.;
                            
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Courier, October 25, 1924 (clipping), in ibid.; Pickens
                            to Johnson, October 20, 1924, Administrative File, Publicity (Speakers Bureau)
                            1920–1939, Pickens, William, 1923–1925, C-181, ibid.
                  
                  
                     42 Langston to Bagnall, September 11, 1924, G-63, NAACP Records;
                            Johnson to Langston, September 15, 1924, ibid.; Langston and Smith to
                            Pickens, September 25, 1924, ibid.; Fleming to Johnson, August 27, 1924,
                            C-390, ibid.; White to Fleming, September 3, 1924, ibid.; Eulalia O. Proctor (league assistant organizer) to White, September 9, 1924,
                                ibid.; Fleming to White, October 4, 1924, ibid.;
                            White to Fleming, October 8, 1924, ibid.; Proctor to White, October 11,
                            1924, ibid.
                  
                  
                     43 Meredith Nicholson to Maxwell E. Perkins, September 9, 1924,
                            Meredith Nicholson Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Nicholson to Robert Bridges, September 9, 1924, ibid.;
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Freeman, September 6, 20, October 4, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                             News, September 8, October 20, 21, November 1, 3, 1924.
               
                     of the Independent Voters League and the difficulties
                    experienced by the Republican ward machines in turning out black audiences for Republican meetings.
                    The Freeman reported that the same faces were repeatedly seen at the Republican
                    rallies, those of Republican "payroll workers and their political jobholding
                        dependents."44 At the same time the leadership of the Ku Klux Klan
                    sought to maximize the white Protestant vote for the Republican ticket in order to counterbalance
                    the possible loss of the black Republican vote, although the Klan hoped that the latter would not
                        occur.45 The Republican leadership recognized that the Klan issue was the
                    basic factor in the disaffection of black Republicans. Referring to the rise of the Klan issue in a
                    speech before Republican party leaders, the black director of the state Republican campaign bureau
                    for blacks, Ernest G. Tidrington, declared: "This little thing that has happened has
                    frightened the colored man. The heart of the colored man is with you but his mind is
                        confused."46 During the remainder of the campaign the Republicans
                    tried to minimize the effects of the Klan issue, charging that it was an unfair political device
                    created by the Democrats in order to seduce black Republicans and hold the votes of other
                        minorities.47
            
            The local Republican organization launched a drive in October to stem the Democratic tide in the
                    black areas of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Press releases were directed to black voters; one carried a statement of county
                    chairman Coffin asking blacks not to believe Democratic "voodoo propaganda." The
                    speakers' bureau of the county committee scheduled speakers, largely white Republican
                    candidates, for several meetings in the black precincts, where audiences were urged to remain loyal
                    to the party of 
                        Lincoln
                    .48 Also during the fall, Republican gubernatorial candidate Ed
                    Jackson attended public and private meetings with blacks in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He avoided discussion of the Klan at an Emancipation Day political rally sponsored and
                    attended 
                  
                     44
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 27, 1924.
                  
                     45 Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, Official Document Number Twenty-one
                            Issued from the Office of the Grand Oragon, Realm of Indiana, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, October 20, 1924, Harold Feightner Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana
                            State Library); Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, Proclamation, Grand Dragon, Realm of Indiana,
                            November, 1924, G-63, NAACP Records; Thornbrough, "Segregation in Indiana during
                            the Klan Era of the 1920's," pp. 614–15.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 20, 1924.
                  
                     47 See Ed Jackson's keynote address, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 29, 1924.
                  
                     48
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 22, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, October 11, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 15, 18, 20, 29, 1924.
               
                     by black Republican organization men and their associates.
                    However, Jackson discussed the Klan during a private meeting at Ebenezer Baptist Church, which was
                    attended by black clergymen invited by the church's pastor, Charles Johnson, a regular
                    black Republican. Twenty-seven of the forty black Baptist clergymen in the city were present.
                    Jackson asked them to endorse his candidacy publicly and attempted to dissociate himself from the
                    Klan, which he did not do in public before or after this meeting behind closed doors. The clergymen,
                    a number of whom were openly skeptical about Jackson's remarks regarding the Klan, made no
                    formal commitments during the meeting.49
            
            As with local organizations, the campaign activities of national groups were most intense in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the two months preceding the 1924 election. The probable defection of the black
                    voters from the Indiana Republican party because of its association with the Klan was a matter of
                    national interest, covered by the national press.50 National leaders of the
                    NAACP, the Republican party, and the Democratic party were particularly interested in the black vote
                    in the state. As early as August an NAACP executive officer, Robert W. Bagnall, was in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he made a political speech before an audience of local black businessmen
                    attending a luncheon at the black YMCA. Also present at the meeting was Benjamin J. Davis, a black
                    Republican politician from 
                        Georgia
                    .51 The Republican party had sent Davis to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Bagnall reported: 
                        to secure interviews from leading Negroes endorsing the Republican party, to stampede the
                            luncheon, to arrange a dinner endorsing the Republicans and to give out press stories saying
                            that Negroes in Indiana would vote Republican. At the dinner [i.e., the luncheon] I spoke on
                            the political situation that in Indiana where the Klan was the Republican party, Negroes
                            must vote solidly against every Republican candidate in the state. This met hearty approval.
                            Davis followed with a speech urging that the Negroes of Indiana stand by the Republicans
                            regardless of everything. He was so heckled and hooted that he, at length, about
                                faced…,52
                  
                     In the report to the national office of the NAACP Bagnall also 
                  
                     49
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 27, October 11, 1924; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis City
                                 Directory, 1924, p. 51.
                  
                     50
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 16, 22, 28, 1924.
                  
                     51 Bagnall to Langston, August 6, 1924, Administrative File, Publicity
                            (Speakers Bureau) 1920–1939, Bagnall, R. W., 1920–1927, C-174, NAACP
                            Records; Bagnall to Pickens, August 8, 1924, ibid.; John Hope Franklin,
                                From Slavery to Freedom: A History of Negro Americans (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 524.
                  
                     52 Report of July-August, 1924, Tour of Robert W. Bagnall, C-174,
                            NAACP Records.
               
                     stated: "We shall have to send speakers into Indiana
                    in the fall to counteract the professional Negro politicians who will stump the state [for the
                        Republicans]."53
            
            As Bagnall expected, the Republican national committee did send a column of nationally known black
                    politicians to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the fall. Among them were Henry Lincoln Johnson of 
                        Georgia
                     and Perry Howard of 
                        Mississippi
                    . Johnson was a black member of the Republican national committee and a former recorder
                    of deeds for the 
                        District of Columbia
                    . Howard was a black delegate to the Republican national convention in 1924 and a former
                    assistant to the 
                        United States
                     attorney general.54 In regard to the activities of the out-of-state
                    black Republican politicians before the Tomlinson Hall anti-Klan rally, an executive officer of the
                    NAACP reported: 
                        a whole hired host of Republican Party slaves had been here for weeks meeting the colored
                            people in every church, hall and corner, lying, slandering the N.A.A.C.P., assassinating
                            local leaders and doing their best to break up the success of the coming [Tomlinson Hall]
                            meeting, which their bosses feared. They had spent plenty of money. —The
                            result— The greatest anti-Ku Klux and anti-Republican demonstration ever put on
                            in 
                                Indianapolis
                            .55
                  
                    
                
            The NAACP sent Bagnall and William Pickens, executive officers, to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to organize and speak in support of the anti-Klan forces fighting the Republican party.
                    In September, Bagnall, director of branches, helped the local NAACP plan the October 19 mass
                    demonstration and the October 20 state NAACP conference to be held in the city. Pickens, field
                    secretary, was one of the featured speakers at the Tomlinson Hall meeting. On the day following this
                    meeting, Pickens formed the first permanent Indiana state conference of NAACP branches at a meeting
                    attended by representatives of NAACP branches from ten Indiana cities. Bagnall and Pickens informed
                    the delegates to the state conference that the NAACP, while non-partisan, was advising blacks to
                    vote against the Republican state ticket as a means of fighting the Klan in Indiana.56
            
            
               
                        53
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  54
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, October 16, 1924; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, October 20, 1924; Proctor to White, October 11, 1924, C-390, NAACP
                        Records; Sherman, Republican Party and Black America, 152–53, 167,
                        204; John Dittmer, Black 
                                Georgia
                             in the Progressive Era, 1900–1920 (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill., 1977), 37, 93–94.
               
                  55 Pickens to Johnson, October 20, 1924, C-181, NAACP Records.
               
                  56
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Freeman, October 4, 25, 1924; Bagnall to Johnson, September 19, 1924, C-174,
                        NAACP Records; Pickens to Johnson, October 20, 21, 1924, C-181, ibid.; Report
                        of Midwest Trip of Robert Bagnall, October 27, 1924, Administrative File, Special
                        Correspondence, 1912–1939, Bagnall, Robert W., 1919–1931, C-62, ibid.
               
            
            
            Democrats with national reputations also visited 
                        Indianapolis
                     in October, 1924, attempting to influence black voters. At the invitation of the
                    Independent Voters League, Ferdinand Q. Morton of 
                        New York City
                     and William H. Lewis of 
                        Boston
                     were featured speakers at the Tomlinson Hall anti-Klan rally. Morton was in charge of
                    the Colored Division of the eastern Democratic headquarters. He also held a Democratic appointment
                    as a municipal civil service commissioner and served as head of Tammany Hall United Colored
                    Democracy. While Morton had been a black Democrat before 1924, Lewis, a former assistant 
                        United States
                     attorney general under a Republican administration, had recently converted to the
                    Democratic party. Lewis was the most important of several prominent blacks who defected from the
                    Republican party in 1924 when Democratic leaders, attempting to capitalize on black discontent with
                    the Republican party, made a greater effort than usual to win the black vote.57
                    Although handicapped by the failure of his party's national convention to pass an anti-Klan
                    plank, Democratic presidential candidate John W. Davis openly campaigned for black support. Davis
                    made an anti-Klan statement that was more forthright than the comments upon the Klan by either of
                    his major opponents, Republican Calvin Coolidge and Progressive Robert M. La Follette. Davis further
                    promised that as president he would make no distinctions based on race or creed. Also, the
                    Democratic candidate met black audiences in several states, including Indiana. During a campaign
                    trip to 
                        Indianapolis
                     Davis met a large delegation of blacks headed by George L. Knox, who represented the
                    Independent Voters League.58 In a short talk Davis assured 
                        Knox
                     and the others that he was against "the Ku Klux Klan or any other organization
                    which sought to intrude religion or race into politics."59
            
            There was apparently only one face-to-face debate between Republicans and Democrats in the black
                    precincts of 
                        Indianapolis
                     before the 1924 election. Late in October several representatives of the two parties
                    addressed a meeting of the Universal Negro Political Union, evidently affiliated with Marcus 
                  
                     57
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, October 18, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Informer, October 11, 1924, copy in G-63, NAACP Records; Langston and
                            Smith to Pickens, September 25, 1924, ibid.; Sherman, Republican Party and Black America, 210–11; see also note 41.
                  
                     58 Sherman, Republican Party and Black America,
                            210–11; 
                                Franklin
                            , From Slavery to Freedom, 524; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, October 11, 18, 1924; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 14, 1924.
                  
                     59
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, October 18, 1924.
               
                     Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association.60 These addresses, however, were part of a larger debate carried on through the
                    meetings, pamphlets, press releases, and newspaper columns of each side. The basic question of the
                    debate in the larger arena was which party would be most likely to uphold principles, particularly
                    equality before the law, of fundamental importance to black people. In regard to these principles
                    the basic argument in support of the proposition that blacks should vote Republican was embodied in
                    the old maxim of Frederick Douglass, "The Republican party is the ship, all else is the
                    sea." According to this argument, the black voters owed the Republican party a debt of
                    loyalty because it had been responsible for the application of these principles to black people,
                    with examples ranging from 
                        Lincoln
                    's Emancipation Proclamation and the post-Civil War constitutional amendments
                    to statutes against racial discrimination. Furthermore, the Democratic party was historically
                    hostile to the extension of these principles to blacks, as evidenced by the lynching of blacks,
                    racial segregation statutes, and disenfranchisement of black voters in the Democratic states of the
                    Solid South. Instances of racial discrimination practiced by former Democratic city administrations
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     also were cited.61
            
            The major argument in support of the position that blacks should vote Democratic was that the
                    Republicans had abandoned the principles of the party of 
                        Lincoln
                    , as indicated by the party's retreat from its earlier position of strong
                    opposition to racial discrimination. The overriding evidence of the Republican regression was the
                    nomination of the Klan-endorsed ticket by Indiana Republicans. The Ku Klux Klan stood for the
                    antithesis of equality before the law, urging instead discrimination based upon race, religion, and
                    national origin. Furthermore, the Indiana Democratic leaders condemned the Klan and promised to
                    oppose racial discrimination.62 Summarizing the basic argument, the Freeman stated: 
                        The Negro is fighting for his Constitutional rights as an American citizen. Those rights have
                            been attacked by the Ku Klux Klan working thru the present misguided Republican party. The
                            Democratic party in Indiana has 
                        
                           60 The debate was held at the address of the UNIA Liberty
                                    Hall. See 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, October 21, 1924; 
                              
                                            Indianapolis City
                                         Directory, 1924, p. 75.
                        
                           61
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, September 29, October 15, 21, 29, 1924; 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Freeman, October 18, 1924; 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Leader [Ledger], October 25, 1924, G-63, NAACP Records.
                        
                           62
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Freeman, September 20, 27, October 11, November 1, 1924; 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, October 21, 1924.
                     
                             taken its stand for the rights and privileges of all
                            the citizens here, without regard to race, creed or place of birth. The Negro will support
                            it because it supports him on the issues of American principles.63
                  
                    
                
            The Republican rebuttal regarding the Klan and the state party was muted, with the issue played down
                    and characterized as a Democratic artifice. The Democratic party, it was noted, had been associated
                    with the Klan in the South following the Civil War and still was. All white people were Kluxers, and
                    one might as well vote for one as another. Furthermore, the Indiana Klan was not against black
                    people but was "trying to down the Jew and the Catholic."64
                    The response in turn for the Democrats was that the Klan should be condemned on principle for
                    discriminating against Catholics and Jews, that the Indiana Klan was clearly hostile to blacks as
                    shown by its statements and actions favoring white supremacy, and that, while the Klan influenced
                    the Democratic party in the South, it dominated the Republican party in Indiana.65
            
            The rebuttal to the argument for black loyalty to the Republican party was as follows. Black voters
                    had repaid any debt to the Republican party with their almost unbroken support of it in local and
                    national elections since the Civil War. Regardless, black voters were not deserting the Republican
                    party because the party had deserted them when it sided with the Klan. Furthermore, black voters
                    could express loyalty to the Republican party by voting Democratic in 1924 as a means of defeating
                    Klan candidates and rescuing the state party from the hands of an organization opposed to the
                    principles of 
                        Lincoln
                    . In addition, black support of the Democratic ticket would be an expression of
                    political independence which might ultimately enhance black political power by requiring the
                    political parties to compete with each other for black votes. Finally, black votes for the
                    Democratic ticket would at least be an expression of protest against the Republican party's
                    desertion of principles important to black people.66
            
            The opposing forces contesting the Klan issue in black 
                        Indianapolis
                     before the 1924 general election engaged in reasonable debate and used fair campaign
                    methods, but the contest was marred by kinds of skulduggery not peculiar in American 
                  
                     63
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 27, 1924.
                  
                     64
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 18, 22, November 3, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 20, October 11, 18, 25, 1924.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 20, October 11, 1924.
                  
                     66
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 21, November 3, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, August 9, September 6, 20, 27, October 11, 18, 25, November 1,
                            1924.
               
                     political history, including the use of political tricks,
                    unfounded propaganda, charges of political corruption, and political intimidation. The regular
                    Republicans produced and distributed a "trick circular" signed
                    "Democratic Negro Committee" and claiming "We do not want any more rights
                    than we have in the South."67 The anti-Klan group circulated a pamphlet
                    luridly depicting the burning of the Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church of 
                        Chicago
                     on October 18, implying the culpability of the Klan for the fire and urging blacks to
                    vote the straight Democratic ticket.68
            
            Each side in the contest charged that some of its opponents had been corrupted by political bribery.
                    For example, one of the most outspoken black critics of the Klan and the Republican party, the
                    Reverend Charles Sumner Williams, was called "the French Lick donation seeker,"
                    the reference being to a favorite meeting place of the state Democrats. At the invitation of
                    Williams, the Democratic gubernatorial candidate had made a speech criticizing the Klan during a
                    political and educational rally at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church. The meeting had been called for the purpose
                    of raising funds for Wilberforce University of 
                        Ohio
                    . Only church members had made contributions, but later William H. Jackson, editor of
                    the Klan-backed Ledger, charged that Williams had mixed politics and religion and
                    that the Democratic organization had donated one thousand dollars to his church. Also, black
                    organization men supporting the Republican party failed in an attempt to pressure the
                    pastor's bishop to reassign him to a church in another city.69 In
                    retort, the Freeman, a voice of the anti-Klan movement, observed that the
                    Republican party sought the support of black churches, noted that the Republican gubernatorial
                    candidate mixed religion and politics in seeking the endorsement of the local black Baptist
                    ministerial alliance, and referred to black clergymen supporting the Klan-endorsed ticket as
                    "Judas preachers."70 The Freeman apparently
                    singled out for special criticism the Reverend Benjamin F. Farrell of Mt. Paran Baptist Church.
                    Farrell was a director of the Independent Voters League and one of its speakers during its series of
                    pro-Democratic rallies, but late in October he publicly endorsed 
                  
                     67 Pickens to Johnson, October 20, 1924, C-181, NAACP Records.
                  
                     68 Pamphlet headed, "Do You Think the K.K.K. Burned Down This
                            A.M.E. Church in 
                                Chicago
                            ?" G-63, ibid.
                  
                  
                     69
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 27, October 4, 25, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 8, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Leader [Ledger], October 25, 1924, G-63, NAACP Records.
                  
                     70
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 27, October 11, 25, 1924.
               
                     the Republican party. The Freeman charged
                    that the black Baptist preacher had been "converted not by reason but by the practical
                    methods of the notorious ward heeler."71
            
            Political intimidation was used as the election drew near. One hundred fifty black postal workers,
                    clerks and mail carriers, were approached by Charles H. Brown, the black organizer associated with
                    the office of the Republican county chairman, and warned that their jobs would be in "grave
                    danger" if they did not "get right with the Republican State ticket." The
                    postal workers subsequently sought the aid of the Independent Voters League, and the Freeman referred to 
                        Brown
                    's statement as a Republican edict: "Kick in or get out."72 Also, Henry Fleming, executive organizer of the Independent Voters League,
                    was arrested and indicted on the day following the Tomlinson Hall rally and arraigned on the day
                    before the election. It was alleged that Fleming had embezzled money from a 
                        Chicago
                     woman. The Freeman reported that black Republican organization
                    workers had been informed a few days before the Tomlinson Hall rally that Fleming would go to jail
                    if the mass anti-Klan demonstration were not called off. The Freeman referred to
                    this as another Republican edict: "Be for us, or go to jail."73 The Independent Voters League and several important white Democratic leaders came to
                    Fleming's legal defense.74
            
            The high level of interest in the election and the lively political enthusiasm stimulated by the
                    anti-Klan forces during the campaign continued through election day in black 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Black political workers opposed to the Klan worked hard and efficiently on election
                    day. Emphasizing his appeal for the black vote, the Democratic gubernatorial candidate visited
                    several black precincts. McCulloch had become an outspoken critic of the Klan and was warmly
                    welcomed by crowds of poll workers and voters. The high level of black interest in the election was
                    indicated by the long lines of voters at polls in the morning. The bulk of the votes were cast
                    before noon in the black precincts, although in past elections most black voters had customarily
                    gone to the polls late in the afternoon. Furthermore, 
                  
                     71 See note 25. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Informer, October 11, 1924, G-63, NAACP Records; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 3, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, October 18, 1924.
                  
                     72
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Informer, October 11, 1924, G-63, NAACP Records; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, October 6, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, October 11, 1924.
                  
                     73
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 20, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, November 3, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, October 25, 1924.
                  
                            74
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     the black vote was heavy, the vote total being higher in black
                    precincts than in previous elections.75
            
            The anti-Klan movement in black 
                        Indianapolis
                     succeeded to the point that most of the blacks going to the polls voted against the
                    Klan-endorsed ticket and for Democratic candidates. Both Davis and McCulloch, Democratic candidates
                    for president and governor respectively, were given majorities in black areas. According to
                    contemporary estimates, 70 to 80 percent of the black vote in 
                        Indianapolis
                     went to the Democrats.76 This was true in many of the black
                    precincts. In fact, McCulloch obtained 84 percent of the votes in one heavily black precinct (the
                    eighth in the First Ward). A tabulation of the total votes in the city's twenty-one
                    predominantly black precincts showed that McCulloch received 69 percent of the votes in those
                        precincts.77
            
            The anti-Klan campaign failed, however, in that Coolidge and the Klan-backed county and state ticket
                    won a majority in 
                        Marion County
                    . The losses incurred by the Republicans in the black areas were more than offset by a
                    heavy Republican vote in white districts of the county that were normally Democratic. Ed Jackson and
                    most of the Klan-endorsed ticket in Indiana were elected in the Republican landslide of 1924 which
                    kept Calvin Coolidge in the White House.78 Shortly following the election, black
                    anti-Klan leaders averred that they were not disappointed by the election results, claiming that the
                    Ku Klux Klan had been defeated notwithstanding the Republican victory in Indiana. They noted that
                    Governor-elect Jackson ran more than 100,000 votes behind President Coolidge in Indiana and that
                    Jackson obtained significantly fewer votes than some of the Republicans elected to Indiana state
                    offices without Klan support. These facts, according to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Times, indicated that "the Klan label was a liability rather than an
                    asset" 
                  
                     75
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 4, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, November 4, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 5, 1924; Thornbrough, Since Emancipation,
                            32.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, November 4, 1924; Memorandum, White to W. E. B. DuBois, November 6,
                            1924, C-390, NAACP Records.
                  
                     77 Percentages are based upon calculations made by the author. The
                            predominantly black precincts were numbers 8 and 9 in the First Ward; 7 in the Third Ward;
                            16–18 in the Fourth Ward; 1–8 in the Fifth Ward; 2, 3, 4, 6 in the
                            Sixth Ward; 3, 4, 7 in the Seventh Ward. See vote for president and governor by precincts
                            and wards in 
                                Marion County
                             as listed in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 6, 1924.
                  
                     78
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, November 5, 1924; Indiana, Legislative Reference Bureau, Year Book of the State of Indiana for the Year 1924 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1925), 50.
               
                     and that, if he had not been tied to the Klan, Jackson would
                    not have run behind Coolidge.79 Also viewing the election results optimistically
                    from the anti-Klan standpoint, NAACP Director of Branches Bagnall wrote: 
                        I believe that the fight in Indiana by our people was well worth while, even though Jackson
                            was elected. The fact that the Negro will fight and not submit to oppression without protest
                            will cause his enemies in the future to be more careful….80
                  
                     Actually the Ku Klux Klan gained substantial political power as a result of the Republican
                    victory in Indiana in 1924. Regardless of the political fortunes of the Klan, however, the
                    significant fact was that the majority of the city's black vote went to the Democrats in
                    state and national elections for the first time in history.81
            
            What caused the transfer of the traditionally Republican 
                        Indianapolis
                     black vote to the Democrats in 1924? The determining factor did not involve the general
                    merits of the candidates in the opposing parties. This was suggested, for example, by the fact that
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     black vote had been against the Democrat McCulloch in the 1920 gubernatorial
                        election.82 Nor was the contest significantly influenced by the economic
                    status of blacks. The Republican years of the early 1920s were relatively prosperous ones for blacks
                    in the North; employment and income figures were higher for blacks as a group in the North from 1917
                    to 1927 than before.83 And the enormous disparity in the economic status of
                    blacks and whites, which was a constant historical element in American society, was not made an
                    issue in the 1924 election. The Ku Klux Klan was the overriding and almost exclusive issue for
                    blacks in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1924. Thus, the determining factor involved a matter of principle. Both before and
                    after 1924 blacks tended to vote for the party perceived as being more sympathetic to the principle
                    of equality. In this regard, there was a reversal of the perceptions of the two parties among blacks
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1924. 
                  
                     79
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, November 6, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, November 7, 1924.
                  
                     80 Bagnall to Olivia Taylor, November 5, 1924, G-63, NAACP Records.
                  
                     81 Jackson, The Ku Klux Klan in the City, 156; Artis
                            to White, June 18, 1926, G-63, NAACP Records.
                  
                     82 The Democratic candidates for governor and president not only lost
                            the traditionally Republican wards containing the black precincts but also several normally
                            Democratic wards in 
                                Marion County
                             in 1920. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 3, 1920; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 3, 4, 5, 1920.
                  
                     83
                            
                                Franklin
                            , From Slavery to Freedom, 493–96; Thornbrough, Since Emancipation, 75.
               
                     As the Republican image became negative through association
                    with the Klan, the Democratic image became more positive: the state party platform included the
                    "Freedom and Liberty Plank," 
                        Marion County
                     Democrats nominated a black man for state representative, the Democratic candidate for
                    governor forth-rightly criticized the Klan, and other Democratic candidates spoke against the Klan
                    and in favor of the principle of equality.
            The transfer of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     black vote to the Democrats in 1924 was a manifestation of the developing black
                    rebellion against the Republican party that occurred throughout the 
                        United States
                     during the 1920s. Black political figures, organizations, and newspapers across the
                    country were increasingly critical of the Republican party on matters of racial equality. The
                    mounting criticism suggested a growing alienation of black voters from the Republican party, but
                    this was rarely evident in the election statistics.84 However, on a few
                    occasions black voters did bolt the Republican party in local and state elections, even during the
                    early 1920s. For example, the majority of the Harlem black vote was Democratic in the 1921 
                        New York City
                     mayoral election, and most of the black voters in the city's twenty-first
                    district (Harlem) supported the Democratic candidate for state representative in 1922 and 1924.
                    Black wards in 
                  Kansas City, Missouri
               , went Democratic in the April, 1924, mayoral
                    election. Also, scholars agree that many black voters in the 
                        United States
                     bolted the Republican party in the presidential election of 1924, although the majority
                    continued to vote Republican.85 By 1924 an increasing number of prominent blacks
                    were convinced that black voters had to exhibit independent voting habits, supporting friends and
                    opposing enemies of racial equality regardless of party affiliation. This trend foreshadowed the
                    general black departure from the Republican party in 1936.86
            
            As previously noted, the national office of the NAACP had advocated black political independence even
                    before 1924. NAACP Director of Branches Robert W. Bagnall, in commenting on the 1924 election
                    results in black 
                        Indianapolis
                    , wrote: "It will take sometime to teach the race as a whole independence in
                    politics, but I believe we have gone quite far this year in teaching the lesson."87 Walter White, NAACP assistant secretary, 
                  
                     84 Sherman, Republican Party and Black America,
                            chapters 6–10 passim.
                  
                  
                     85 John G. VanDeusen, "The Negro in Politics," Journal of Negro History, XXI (July, 1936), 269, 272; 
                                Franklin
                            , From Slavery to Freedom, 524.
                  
                     86 Sherman, Republican Party and Black America, 213.
                  
                     87 Bagnall to Taylor, November 5, 1924, G-63, NAACP Records.
               
                     assumed that blacks in Indiana had broken free of the old
                    one-party tie and remained so in 1926. White apparently hoped that Indiana might serve as a model
                    for teaching the independent voting habit to blacks in other states. In this regard, White asked
                    Lionel F. Artis of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     NAACP to describe and explain the in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a speaker on the program of the 1926 NAACP annual conference in 
                        Chicago
                    . Artis declined the request in a pessimistic letter explaining in detail that blacks in
                    Indiana were "in a sorry position politically" and concluding that Indiana had
                    nothing "to offer as a solution to difficulties being experienced in other
                        places."88
            
            The pessimism expressed in Artis's letter was related to the 1925 election results, which
                    seemingly indicated the return of black 
                        Indianapolis
                     to "one party slavery status." Republican candidates endorsed by the
                    Ku Klux Klan were victorious in the 1925 
                        Indianapolis
                     municipal and 
                        Marion County
                     School Board elections. The majority of blacks going to the polls voted for the
                    victorious Republican municipal and county tickets.89 Still, the bare election
                    statistics very likely concealed substantial alienation of blacks from the Republican party in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1925. Circumstances prevented blacks from expressing their disaffection at the
                    polls. The city's black voters and political figures were evidently demoralized politically
                    by the 1924 election results and their aftermath. Despite the large anti-Klan black vote, the 1924
                    election enhanced the Klan's power in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .90
            
            After the 1924 election the Republican party did not improve its negative image among 
                        Indianapolis
                     blacks, making no concessions regarding the Klan. Through a combination of threats and
                    political inducements, the Republicans succeeded in drawing some of the black anti-Klan politicians
                    back into the party fold by 1925. Shortly after the 1924 election, the press reported that
                    Republican politicians who had worked against Jackson would be relieved of their political jobs.
                    This included black politicians who had worked at the polls in favor of Coolidge for president and
                    McCulloch for governor. Some black politicians probably returned to the Republican party in order to
                    stay on its payroll. According to a white Republican boss, 
                  
                     88 Arts to White, June 18, 1926, ibid.
                  
                  
                     89
                            Ibid.; Thornbrough, "Segregation in Indiana during the Klan Era
                            of the 1920's," 615–16.
                  
                     90 Jackson, The Ku Klux Klan in the City,
                        156.
               
                     some black precinct committeemen supported the party ticket in
                    1925 in return for a bribe of $25 each. But the Republicans did not make a strong effort
                    to get out the black vote in 1925, and only a few black politicians worked for the party ticket.91
            
            To further complicate matters, the Democratic party lost its positive image among 
                        Indianapolis
                     blacks following the 1924 election. In the first instance, the Democrats developed no
                    permanent alliance with the black constituency while courting the black vote in 1924. Indeed, the
                    Democrats assumed an attitude of indifference to the city's black vote after 1924. The
                    party was apparently not interested in exploiting its opportunity to hold 
                        Indianapolis
                     black voters after its bitter experience in the 1924 contest, in which the party won
                    the black vote but lost the election. Not surprisingly, the Democrats were accused of making
                    "covert attempts to secure some of the Klan support" in 1925.92
            
            Circumstances after 1924 were not conducive to the success of black insurgent political leaders in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and in fact there was an absence of such leadership in 1925. Black politicians who
                    assumed the role of political leadership were Republicans of the "old school," as
                    Lionel Artis described them, politicians who would be "satisfied when they themselves are
                    ‘taken care of’, meaning a clerkship … or custodianship of the
                    courthouse or City Hall or given the privilege of running a gambling house."93 Recognition of such leaders either by the Republican party or by black voters was
                    "almost nihil [sic]." The association of the Republican party with the Klan, which
                    had created the anti-Klan black constituency for black insurgent leaders in 1924, still existed, but
                    black voters were demoralized and could not be induced to support the Democratic party in the face
                    of its recent attitudes and actions affecting blacks.94
            
            Among the mass of black voters in 
                        Indianapolis
                     there apparently remained a substantial amount of disaffection with the Republican
                    party. This was revealed in the 1925 city and county election statistics. The city's black
                    vote in this election was "extremely light," with most black voters staying away
                        
                  
                     91 Artis to White, June 18, 1926, G-63, NAACP Records; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, November 7, 1924; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 5, 1924; Jackson, The Ku Klux Klan in the
                                City, 278n; Thornbrough, "Segregation in Indiana during the Klan Era of
                            the 1920's," 616.
                  
                     92 Artis to White, June 18, 1926, G-63, NAACP Records.
                  
                            93
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            94
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     from the polls because of political malaise or in protest
                    against the absence of a reasonable choice on the ballot as far as they were concerned.95 Alienation from the Republican party was probably greater among young blacks
                    than among older ones who had lifetime ties to the party.96 Artis concluded that
                    "the great group of ordinary [black] voters" were dissatisfied with the existing
                    political situation but were not politically articulate. Artis held that a "complete
                    change" could be "easily accomplished" if "dynamic leadership
                    were supplied."97 He might have added that such a change could have
                    come if black voters had been given an acceptable alternative to the Republican party.
            The national movement for independent voting by blacks, which accelerated during the 1920s, continued
                    during the 1930s. Black voters in the 
                        United States
                     were lectured about the shortcomings of the Republican party and its presidential
                    candidates by a growing body of noted black men, newspapers, and organizations in each presidential
                    election after 1924. To paraphrase Bagnall, black Americans were being taught the independent voting
                    habit. During this period the black image of the Republican party as the sacrosanct party of 
                        Lincoln
                     substantially eroded. Yet the majority of black voters in the 
                        United States
                     stayed with the Republican party in presidential elections, although sometimes in
                    declining numbers, down to 1936. Black alienation from the Republican party was offset by the
                    negative black image of a national Democratic party controlled by white Democratic leaders from
                    southern states where blacks were legally segregated and disenfranchised.98
            
            Black disaffection from the Republican party was manifested to a greater extent in 
                        Indianapolis
                     than in the country at large in the presidential elections of 1928 and 1932. The
                    results of these elections reveal that Artis was unnecessarily pessimistic in 1926 when he assumed
                    that the departure of a majority of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     black voters from the Republican party was an anomaly (Table I). In the 1928
                    presidential election 53 
                  
                            95
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     96 In the 1924 election many young people had voted the straight
                            Democratic ticket while older people had tended to split their tickets, voting for Coolidge
                            and McCulloch. As a result of the split-ticket voting Davis received 61 percent of the vote
                            in twenty-one largely black 
                                Indianapolis
                             precincts, against 69 percent for McCulloch; see note 77 above; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, November 4, 5, 1924.
                  
                     97 Artis to White, June 18, 1926, G-63, NAACP Records.
                  
                     98 Sherman, Republican Party and Black America,
                            chapters 9–10 passim;
                            
                                Franklin
                            , From Slavery to Freedom, 527.
               
                    
                    
                  Table I: Percentages of the Two-Party Vote for Democratic and Republican Presidential
                            Candidates, 1920–1936, in Predominantly Black Wards of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  
                     Election
                     Democratic
                     Republican
                  
                  
                     1920∗
                     
                     25
                     75
                  
                  
                     1924∗
                     
                     64
                     36
                  
                  
                     1928∗∗
                     
                     53
                     47
                  
                  
                     1932∗∗
                     
                     49
                     51
                  
                  
                     1936∗∗∗
                     
                     75
                     25
                  
               
                    
                  SOURCES: Ward returns were published in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 5, 1920, November 7, 1928, November 9, 1932, November 4,
                            1936; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 6, 1924.
                  NOTE:
                        
                           ∗ Fifth Ward
                        
                           ∗∗ Fifth and Sixth Wards
                        
                           ∗∗∗Twelfth Ward (New ward
                                    boundaries, drawn after the 1932 election, placed the new Twelfth Ward on the
                                    city's near northwest side where the old Fifth and Sixth Wards had been
                                    located.)
                     
                  
                percent of the vote in the black wards of 
                        Indianapolis
                     went to the Democratic candidate, Al Smith. Many blacks who voted for Smith identified
                    with him as a candidate of the underdog because he was opposed by the Ku Klux Klan, which objected
                    to his Roman Catholic faith. But the political alternatives regarding the issue of racial equality
                    were not as sharply drawn for 
                        Indianapolis
                     blacks in 1928 as they had been in 1924.99 This probably explains
                    why the Democratic majority was smaller in 1928 than in 1924. The options for blacks were even less
                    distinct in the presidential election of 1932 than in 1928. On the one hand, Herbert Hoover, the
                    Republican candidate, was criticized for continuing the regressive racial policy of the Republican
                    party during his presidential administration. On the other hand, Franklin D. Roosevelt, the
                    Democratic candidate, was regarded as indifferent to the principle of racial equality 
                  
                     99 Sherman, Republican Party and Black America,
                            229–32; 
                                Franklin
                            , From Slavery to Freedom, 524; Andrew Buni, Robert L. Vann of the 
                                    Pittsburgh
                                 Courier: Politics and Black Journalism (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1974), 178.
               
                     and as susceptible to manipulation by the southern wing of his
                        party.100 Consequently, the Democratic share of the vote in the black wards
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                     again declined in 1932, with Roosevelt receiving 49 percent of the total.
            Viewed in retrospect, the results of the presidential elections from 1920 through 1932 show that the
                    1924 election was a point of departure in a historical process of political realignment in black 
                        Indianapolis
                     (Table I). In presidential elections prior to 1924 most 
                        Indianapolis
                     black voters were Republican. In keeping with this tradition, the Republican
                    presidential candidate won 75 percent of the city's black vote in 1920. However, during the
                    period 1924–1932 Republicans were the minority of the city's black constituency,
                    with the majority consisting of Democrats and independents. The percentage of the black vote for the
                    Democratic candidate varied in elections from 1924 through 1932 because there was a considerable
                    body of black independents who sometimes voted Democratic. The fact that the Democratic candidate
                    obtained the majority of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     black vote in two of the three presidential elections prior to 1936 indicates that the
                    total number of black Democrats and black independents exceeded the number of black Republicans
                    throughout the period 1924–1932.
            That black Americans, especially young voters, were prepared to leave the Republican party is
                    indicated by the events of the 1920s and early 1930s. Nevertheless, the majority of blacks in
                    America saw no political alternative supportable on principle until 1936, when the Democratic
                    presidential candidate received most of the nation's black vote, including 75 percent of
                    the black total in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . By that time President Roosevelt and the New Dealers had, in a variety of ways,
                    presented a Democratic image more favorable to the principle of racial equality than that of the
                    Republicans. New Dealers had included blacks in their federal economic programs, and President and
                    Mrs. Roosevelt had developed reputations for amicable relationships with black individuals and
                    groups. President Roosevelt had recognized the political interests of blacks by creating a
                    "Black Cabinet" and by seeking the advice of a group of astute black political
                    observers, including Freeman B. Ransom, who had supported the Democratic party in 1924 as a leader
                    of the Independent Voters League. During the 1936 campaign black political activists and black
                    newspapers supporting 
                  
                     100 Sherman, Republican Party and Black America,
                            253–55; 
                                Franklin
                            , From Slavery to Freedom, 527.
               
                     Roosevelt mainly stressed equal rights issues rather than
                    economic matters.101 The result in the 1936 presidential election was the same
                    as it had been in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1924 when the image reversal occurred there. There was a political realignment of
                    blacks in favor of the Democrats, but this time on a national basis.102
            
            
               
                  101 In 1936 Henry A. Fleming, who had been the executive organizer of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Independent Voters League in 1924, was chairman of the Democratic state bureau for
                        blacks, and Freeman B. Ransom was in charge of Roosevelt's national campaign among
                        blacks in Indiana. 
                            Franklin
                        , From Slavery to Freedom, 527; 
                            Harvard
                         Sitkoff, A New Deal for Blacks: The Emergence of Civil Rights as a
                            National Issue (1 vol. to date, 
                            New York
                        , 1981), I, 95–97; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, November 7, 1936.
               
                  102 Proportionately more black voters left the Republican party in 1936 in
                        cities that had experienced vigorous black political independence movements during the 1920s
                        than in cities lacking that experience. For example, in 1936 Roosevelt received 75 percent of
                        the black vote in 
                            Indianapolis
                         and 80 percent in Harlem, but only 49 percent in 
                            Chicago
                         and 43 percent in 
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  . Sitkoff, A New Deal for
                            Blacks, 95–97; Giffin, "Black Insurgency in the Republican Party of 
                            Ohio
                        , 1920–1932," 44–45.
            
         
         
         
            The Civil War Diary of Chaplain Stephen C. Bowers
            
                    Edited by Glenna R. Schroeder
                    ∗
                
            Stephen C. Bowers, whose brief tenure as a Union army chaplain is recorded in this diary, was born
                    near 
                  Wilmington, Dearborn
                            County
               , Indiana, on March 3, 1832.1 The youngest of
                    seven brothers and seven sisters, Bowers was raised on a farm and attended local schools.2 As a teacher, he married one of his students, Margaret A. Powell, about June,
                    1851. A child was born in early 1852, but both Margaret and the baby died soon after.3
            
            On November 6, 1856, Bowers was married to Martha A. Craycroft in 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana.4 A son, John, was born in late December, 1859, but died
                    in early February, 1860.5 Anna A. Bowers (Bailey) was born in December, 1860,
                    and a son, De-Moss, was born on January 5, 1864.6 These two were the only
                    children of this marriage to survive to adulthood. Martha died October 14, 1879, in
                            
                  Santa Barbara, California
               .7
            
            Bowers decided to enter the Methodist ministry and was admitted to the Indiana Conference on
                    probation in 1856, becoming 
                  
                     ∗ Glenna R. Schroeder is photo research librarian for World
                            Vision, a non-denominational Christian humanitarian organization in 
                        Monrovia, California
                     .
                  
                     1 Bowers Autobiography (1859), 1, manuscript in the possession of Art
                            Harrington of Claremont, Calif; Bowers Diary, March 3, 1863, Stephen Bowers Collection
                            (Southwest Museum, 
                                Los Angeles
                            , Calif.). The portion of the diary reproduced below is edited and published by
                            permission of Dr. Patrick T. Houlihan, director.
                  
                     2 Bowers Autobiography, 1, 3.
                  
                     3 Affidavit of David Radibaugh of 
                        Los Angeles, California
                     , December 7, 1907, in Bowers Pension File, Records of the
                            Record and Pension Office, 1784–1917, Records of the Adjutant General's
                            Office, 1780s-1917, Record Group 94 (National Archives, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            ).
                  
                     4 Copy of marriage license, State of Indiana, 
                                Washington County
                            , in Bowers Pension File.
                  
                     5 Bowers Autobiography, 38.
                  
                     6 Bureau of Pensions Questionnaire filled out by Stephen Bowers,
                            February 23, 1898, Bowers Pension File.
                  
                     7 Affidavit of DeMoss Bowers and Anna Bailey, 
                                Los Angeles
                            , Calif., December 3, 1907, Bowers Pension File.
               
                     coming a full-fledged minister in 1858 and rising in rank to
                    deacon in 1859 and elder in 1860. Having served several other congregations in Indiana, he was
                    assigned to minister in 
                        Brownstown
                     in 
                        Bloomington
                     District in 1860 and was still leading this congregation in 1862, when he joined the
                    Union army.8
            
            The first step in Bowers's military service was his commissioning as second lieutenant and
                    recruiting officer on August 7, 1862. In this position he recruited eighty-two men for Captain Ralph
                    Applewhite's company and fourteen for Captain Byford E. Long's. When
                    Applewhite's company was actually formed on August 19, 1862, Bowers was elected first
                    lieutenant. The group was officially mustered in as Company K of the 67th Indiana Infantry
                    Volunteers on August 20, 1862, at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. Bowers's term as first lieutenant was brief, for he was appointed
                    chaplain for the regiment on September 1, 1862.9 Bowers's active
                    military career lasted less than two months (August 7-September 29, 1862), but in that period he had
                    a real taste of camp life, experienced a battle, and was taken prisoner by the enemy.10
            
            
               
                  8 List from records at the Commission on Archives and History of the
                        United Methodist Church (Lake Junaluska, 
                            North Carolina
                        ); hereafter cited as Methodist Archives List. Methodist ministers are required to
                        spend at least two years on probation ("on trial") before being admitted to
                        full ministerial privileges ("full connection"). Deacon and elder are
                        ministerial ranks. That of deacon may be entered during the probationary period, but elder is
                        reserved for those in "full connection." See Book of Discipline
                            of the United Methodist Church (
                            Nashville
                        , Tenn., 1976), 176, 182, 204–205.
               
                  9 [William H.H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant General of
                            the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1865–1869), II, 614–20; Company Muster Roll in Bowers
                        Military File (National Archives).
               
                  10 Bowers's diary was kept in a small black book and written in
                        pencil. The volume begins on August 19, 1862, and continues sporadically until May 2, 1864. The
                        later entries have to do only with Bowers's ministerial reponsibilities and his
                        spiritual life. Although the book is well preserved, the exigencies of writing under camp
                        conditions often rendered his handwriting difficult to read. The editor has attempted to
                        transcribe Bowers's original spelling, capitalization, and punctuation, which are very
                        inconsistent. [Sic] is added only after grammatical peculiarities. Illegible
                        words are indicated as such in brackets; in cases where the editor has minor doubts about the
                        transcription of a word, that word is followed by a question mark in brackets; wherever the
                        editor could make only an educated guess as to the proper transcription of a word, it is placed
                        inside brackets with a question mark. Persons and places are identified in footnotes where
                        possible.
            
            
            
               
                        STEPHEN C. BOWERS
                  
                    
               Courtesy of the Southwest Museum.
            
            
            DIARY
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Aug. 19 1862 This day we called our company together at 
                                        Brownstown
                                    
                           11 It consisted of about 125 men At 12 ocl the
                                    Ladies of 
                                        Brownstown
                                     anounced dinner in the Court House square. After the soldiers and
                                    several hundred citizens had partaken the volunteers repaired[?] to the Cout House
                                    where an election was had for commissioned officers R. Applewhite12 for Cap. S. Bowers 1st Lieut., T. Vawter13 2d Lt. were
                                    nominated & elected by acclimation. After the Com. marched out they were
                                    called together when Hon S. S. Early on behalf of several citizens made a present of
                                    a fine cane, to me, accompanied by an excellent speach upon which I tryed to reply
                                    & was loudly cheered. Several speaches were made during the day About 4 P.
                                    M. the Com. were marched down to the depot were after waiting a time the cars came
                                    & good bys were exchanged as well as many tears when the noble boys were
                                    hurried away many of them never [to see?] their loved ones again I fear. In due time
                                    we arrived at 
                                        Vernon
                                    
                           14 being cheered all the way by the citizens our
                                    boys cheering in return. At 
                                        Vernon
                                     we changed cars for 
                                        Madison
                                    
                           15 where we arrived about 9 ocl. Here we were
                                    mustered into service. We got no sleep, having to work all night Next day Aug. 20 we
                                    were called together & our boys were each paid 25. bounty in advance
                                    Officers excepted. In the afternoon we got into camp. having drawn our guns. At
                                    night we drew our clothing. I forgot to state that our boys were furnished with a
                                    good breakfast by the citizens of 
                                        Madison
                                    
                        
                        
                           
                              11
                                        
                                            Brownstown
                                        , Jackson County, Indiana, was located near the east fork of the
                                            White River, seventy miles south of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        ; Thomas Baldwin and J. Thomas, A New and Complete
                                            Gazetteer of the 
                                                United States
                                            
                              … (
                                            Philadelphia
                                        , 1854), 149–50.
                           
                              12 Ralph Applewhite served in Company K of the 67th
                                        Indiana Infantry Volunteers from August 20, 1862, when he was mustered in at 
                                            Madison
                                        , Indiana, until he resigned at 
                                 Knoxville, Tennessee
                              , on April 6, 1863. Unless noted otherwise,
                                        all the identified men mentioned below were mustered in at this time and place.
                                        Civil War Service Cards (Indiana State Library, 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        ). Hereafter cited as ISL Cards.
                           
                              13 Tazwell Vawter later served as first lieutenant and
                                        captain in this company and as captain in Company K of the 24th Regiment
                                        (Reorganized), Indiana Volunteers; Report of the Adjutant
                                        General, II, 239, 619.
                           
                              14
                                        
                                 Vernon, Jennings County
                              , Indiana, was sixty-six miles
                                        southeast of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , where the 
                                            Madison
                                         and 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         Railroad crossed the 
                                            Cincinnati
                                         and 
                                            St. Louis
                                         Railroad. See Baldwin and Thomas, New and Complete
                                            Gazetteer, 1209.
                           
                              15
                                        
                                            Madison
                                        , Indiana, was first settled in 1808 and served as the county seat
                                        for 
                                            Jefferson County
                                        . It was a trade center of approximately 8,700 in 1850 and was
                                        located on the Ohio River ninety miles below 
                                            Cincinnati
                                        , forty-four miles above 
                                            Louisville
                                        , and eighty-six miles south-southeast of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        ; ibid.
                           
                        
                        
                        Aug 21. Early this morning we were called on to gather up our utensils &c.
                                    & march to the river there we found a boat ready to convey us to 
                                        Louisville
                                    . In due time we were on board with the whole regiment & on our
                                    way. We arrived at 
                                        Louisville
                                     in the afternoon and marched out to our camp about one mile south of
                                    the city where two or three Reg. were encamped.
                        
                           Aug. 22 Went to the city to day and purchased uniform Sword sash
                                    & pistol Perhaps 1 out of 8 [are?] Secessionists in the city. Cap.
                                    Applewhite left for home to day & the duties of the day devolved upon me.
                        Aug. 23 Nothing of importance to day I believe
                        Aug. 24 This is the holy Sabbath. To day I preached to an attentive audience of about
                                    600 persons. Many wept There are quite a number of religious men and officers in our
                                    regiment, yet much wickedness At night we had prayer meetings in two of our tents I
                                    think them useful
                        Aug 25 Capt. Applewhite returned to day with a letter from my family. Late this
                                    evening we were ordered to stryke tents & leave for Mumfordville, Ky.16 Some 75 ms. South of 
                                        Louisville
                                    . We did not get off on the train till near 1 o cl. P. M. remaining up
                                    all night
                        
                           Aug. 26 Reached Mumfordsville at about 8 o cl this morning. We then
                                    went to work to get our tents pitched & our luggage from the cars. We have
                                    had but little to eat since yesterday noon No sleep last night. We are in bad
                                    plight. Eat bit little till night Capt & I took dinner about a mile from
                                    camp. I certainly appreciated it. About noon We receid a report of Morgans cavalry
                                    being 7 miles below at Cave City.17 We immediately strengthened
                                    our pickets but herd no more of Morgan. Many of of [sic] our men slept on their
                                    arms, each having 40 rounds of ammunition Here we met a portion of the 50 Reg they
                                    were highly gratified at seeing us One old 
                              
                                 16 Bowers generally spells it Mumfordsville, Baldwin
                                            and Thomas spell it Munfordsville, and it is listed as Munfordville in U.S.,
                                            War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the
                                                Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                                                Washington
                                            , 1880–1901); the latter work is hereafter cited as
                                                Official Records. Now known as Munfordville, it is a
                                            small village in Hart County on the Green River;
                                            Baldwin and Thomas, New and Complete Gazetteer, 754.
                              
                                 17 Colonel John Hunt Morgan (1825–1864) was
                                            a Confederate cavalry commander noted for his raids into Union territory. In
                                            May, 1862, he had been in Cave City destroying the railroad and valuable
                                            supplies. In July he had been around 
                                                Georgetown
                                             and Cynthiana, 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , wreaking havoc, so naturally the possibility of his presence
                                            nearby would create alarm. Dictionary of American
                                            Biography (
                                                New York
                                            , 1943), XIII, 174–75; Mark Mayo Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary (
                                                New York
                                            , 1959), 566.
                           
                                     Methodist ran up & huged me. Our
                                    meeting was quite joyous. Here I met my old friend Cap Scott he invited Cap A.
                                    & myself to dine his boarding house which we gratefully accepted, as before
                                    refered to. Cap. Scott is Provost Marshal of this County
                        Aug. 26 To day I met Col. Dunham18 Major Wells19 & Lt Hunter20 of the 50 Rej.
                        Aug. 27 This day I had an interview with Gen. Ward.21 We have now
                                    got our tents arranged. I believe it was this evening that the artilerymen were
                                    practising with shell & round shot. This was the first practice of the kind
                                    I ever witnessed.
                        Aug. 28. This day I was detached from service & sent to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     to procure Army regulations, Tactics Wipes cones &c for our
                                    guns. Started at 2 o cl P. M. Three deserters from our Rej. were on the train. They
                                    were promptly stopped by an officer & the last I saw of them they were on
                                    their way to the guard house. Reached Louisville about 5 P.M. & 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    
                           22 about 9½ ocl.
                        Aug. 29. Reached Indianapolis about 4 ocl this morning Attended to the business of
                                    our Rej. & started back. Reached Seymour about 11 P.M. Here I met my old
                                    friends H. & E.
                        Aug. 30 Reached my family this morning found them in health. Attended my fourth
                                    quarterly meeting23 I brought home over a thousand dollars from
                                    the soldiers
                        
                           
                              18 Colonel Cyrus L. Dunham was enrolled at 
                                            Seymour
                                        , Indiana, on September 1, 1861, and mustered in at
                                                
                                 Camp Morton, Kentucky
                              , on December 31, at
                                        the age of forty-seven. He was captured at Munfordville on September 17, 1862,
                                        and resigned from the army on November 18, 1863. See ISL Cards; Report of the Adjutant General, II, 490.
                           
                              19 Samuel T. Wells, age thirty-nine or forty-three, was
                                        enrolled at 
                                            Seymour
                                        , Indiana, on September 28, 1861, and mustered in as a captain at
                                                
                                 Camp Morton, Kentucky
                              , on December 31. He
                                        was promoted to major on September 17, 1862. Eventually he was promoted to the
                                        rank of lieutenant colonel. His record cards are not entirely clear. See ISL
                                        Cards; Report of the Adjutant General, II, 490, 491, 493.
                           
                              20 Cyrus R. Hunter, first lieutenant with Company H of the
                                        50th Indiana, was enrolled at Freetown, Indiana, on September 21, 1861, and
                                        mustered in on December 31, probably at 
                                 Camp
                                                Morton, Kentucky
                               (the card is illegible). His card is particularly
                                        complete and indicates that he was thirty-five years old at the time, had hazel
                                        eyes, dark hair, a light complexion, and stood 5'10" tall. A
                                        native of 
                                 Henry County, Ohio
                              , he was a farmer by
                                        occupation and died of an unstated disease on October 30, 1862. ISL Cards; Report of the Adjutant General, II, 499.
                           
                              21 Apparently General William Thomas Ward; see Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XVI, Part I, p. 212.
                           
                              22
                                        
                                 Jeffersonville, Clark County
                              , Indiana, was situated
                                        on the Ohio River almost across from 
                                 Louisville, Kentucky
                              , and was on the railroad to 
                                            Madison
                                         and 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        ; Baldwin and Thomas, New and Complete Gazetteer,
                                        545.
                           
                              23 Bowers is referring to a quarterly meeting of the
                                        Methodist church.
                        
                        
                        Aug. 31. Attended divine service and preached at night
                        Sept. 1. All who were not [illegible] considered themselves unable to go into the
                                    Army were requested to meet at 
                                        Brownstown
                                     for examination. It is surprising how many came. It was the largest
                                    crowd I ever saw in 
                                        Brownstown
                                     I think
                        Sep. 2. To day I am quite unwell, but bid my family adieu & started for my
                                    regiment. Reached Seymour at night. I have quite a no. of Testaments &
                                    letters for our boys in the Reg. It is a [illegible] task to leave ones family when
                                    he has no assurance of ever meeting them again May our heavenly Father keep them in
                                    all peace.
                        Sept. 3. Reached Louisville today. Still unwell. 
                                        Louisville
                                     is under martial law. The rebels are reported marching on the city. The
                                    citizens just appear waked up. Made some purchases. Put up at the U. S. hotell. Met
                                    the Provost Marshal of Jackson & 
                                        Madison
                                     Go's [when/where?] the late fight occured.24 He says our boys fought desperately, but being undisciplined the rebels had
                                    the advantage of them.
                        Sept. 4. Started early this morning in company with Col. Wilder25
                                    Col Buehler & Capt Sears26 for Mumfordsville which we
                                    reached about half past eleven. On the way Col. B. became facinated with an
                                    intelegent & hansome lady whose acquaintance he appeared anxious to
                                    cultivate After riding with her several miles he found she was of African extraction
                                    & that her liege Lord was a son of Ham Col. Wilder could not keep the joke
                                    but communicated it to some of the officers who enjoyed the joke hugely at the Col.s
                                    expense. Such is southern amalgamation. The boys appeared very glad to meet me again
                        Sept. 5. To day I entered upon the duties of Chaplain. Visited both hospitals. The
                                    men appeared rejoiced to see me. Several of them wept when I spoke of home.
                        Sept. 6. Visited the hospital this morning found many of the patients better. Moses
                                    L. I fear will die. Met with Bro. 
                              
                                 24 The "late fight" was probably the
                                            Battle of 
                                    Richmond, Kentucky
                                 , on August
                                            29–30. Kirby Smith, with approximately 16,000 Confederate troops,
                                            had invaded the area and defeated about 7,000 raw Union soldiers under
                                            Generals William ("Bull") Nelson and Mahlon D. Manson. See
                                            James Truslow Adams, ed., Dictionary of American History
                                            (6 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1940), IV, 481; Boatner, Civil War
                                            Dictionary, 508, 586, 697–98.
                              
                                 25 Colonel John Thomas Wilder (1830–1917)
                                            of the 17th Indiana Volunteer Infantry was the Union commander at
                                            Munfordville. He resigned in October, 1864, with the rank of brevet
                                            brigadier general. See Dictionary of American Biography,
                                            XX, 209–10.
                              
                                 26 Theodore E. Buehler and Francis A. Sears; see Report of the Adjutant General, II, 614, and Reuben B.
                                            Scott, The History of the 67th Regiment Indiana Infantry
                                                Volunteers, War of the Rebellion (
                                                Bedford
                                            , Ind., 1892), 123.
                           
                                     Armstrong of the 17th Ind. who was here not
                                    being able to join his Reg in 
                                        Alabama
                                    . This afternoon Cap. Applewhite & self went to the river and
                                    took a bath. At night I went to Mumfordsville and heard a sermon from an old local
                                    Preacher. We had to wade Green river in order to get there
                                    & back
                        Sept 7. This is the holy Sabbath I preached at eleven ocl. to an attentive audience
                                    in a grove near camp many wept. When near half through the sermon a messenger came
                                    for the Col. informing him of the rebels burning a bridge across Salt
                                        river.27 This cuts us off from supplies from 
                                        Louisville
                                     Some 50 of our men went out foraging. At about 9 ocl P.M. Com. A
                                    & K were sent off on the cars for Bowlinggreen so I learn28
                        
                        Sept 8. This morning our companies came back with an abundance of provision Nothing
                                    of special importance transpired to day.
                        Sept. 9. This has been a busy day for me. I did not get to visit the hospital till
                                    night Found our men generally convalescent. We [foild/failed?] in our mail today.
                        Sept. 10. To day a soldier shot himself in the leg with a pistol I visited the
                                    hospital and found our men getting along as well, perhaps, as could be expected
                        Sept. 11. This morning a soldier a minister in the U. B. Church shot two of his
                                    fingers badly with his musket.29 They both had to be amputated.
                                    This I assisted in doing Last night one of the regulars died. I conversed with him
                                    several times while in the hospital He belonged to the 
                                        German
                                     Lutheran Church in 
                                        Ohio
                                    . I thought he spoke hopefully in reference to the future. I trust he
                                    rests with his Saviour in glory. Some 25 of our men are sick in the hospital. This
                                    evening I spent some time with hook & line with some success. The regulars
                                    left us this evening
                        Sept. 12. We had a thundershower last night. It was very welcome, as the dust was
                                    almost sufficating We herd this morning that a large rebel force was at Glasgo.30 We have also herd that ther[e] was a large union force
                                    between here and Bowling-green. 
                              
                                 27 This bridge burning is mentioned in Colonel
                                            Wilder's report, although the date is misprinted as Sunday,
                                            September 9; Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XVI, Part I,
                                            pp. 959–60.
                              
                                 28 This is described in Scott, History of
                                                the 67th Regiment, 6, and Official Records, Ser.
                                            I, Vol. XVI, Part I, p. 960.
                              
                                 29 The victim was Leonard Haney, and U. B. presumably
                                            refers to the United Brethren church; see note 62.
                              
                                 30
                                            
                                    Glasgow, Kentucky
                                 , was located on
                                            the railroad between 
                                                Louisville
                                             and 
                                                Nashville
                                            ; Baldwin and Thomas, New and Complete
                                            Gazetteer, 429.
                           
                                     We can hardly tell what to believe. I
                                    understand our force here is about 2.307 men. I consider this rather an untenable
                                    place. May God in his infinite mercy save us from destruction. I would commit our
                                    cause into his hands. He is able to deliver us from our temporal & spiritual
                                    foes I have been considerably unwell to day. Some better now.
                        Sept. 13. In the evening we herd of a large rebel force approaching we made
                                    preperations for a fight. I told Cap. Applewhites men, some 17 in no. (the rest
                                    being out on picket to retire with their arms & equipments ready to go into
                                    the fight at any moment. About 11 ocl we were arroused for the contest Cap.
                                        Lang.[?]31 came to me & informed me the rebe[l]s
                                    were in side our lines and gave me $100. saying If you come out
                                    [illegible] & I do not you will know what to do with this. I gave Cap.
                                    Applewhites men some instruction & reported my self at the Surgeons quarters
                                    as previously instructed. I soon [heard/learned?] that a rebel Col. was in with a
                                    flag of truce demanding a surrender32 Col. Wilder informed him
                                    that he would fight him. The rebel Col. informed Col. Wilder that he had two
                                    brigades backed up by 32.000 men and that if we would surrender he would parol us
                                    next day in half a hour but our commander positively refusd to do so. The rebel Col.
                                    was then conducted out side our lines At his departure he drank [rum?] with the
                                    officers with this said [he?] "To-day we are friends tomorrow we meet as
                                    enemies, they will be prospered who are on the Lords side" The enemy then
                                    under cover [?] of night commenced planting his bateries. About 4 ocl33 the pickets commenced firing on the enemy and soon a ball was fired at
                                    us from one of their field pieces Skirmish fight was kept up until daylight when our
                                    pickets got in & the battle commenced in earnest We had 4 cannon they 7 and
                                    5 mountain howitzers.34 The first man that came to our quarter
                                    had his hand badly mashed with a [ball?]. He had his arm amputated 
                              
                                 31 Perhaps this was Captain Byford E. Long, of Company
                                            E, who was listed as enrolling officer for many of the members of the 67th
                                            Indiana. See ISL Cards; Report of the Adjutant General,
                                            II, 617.
                              
                                 32 The Confederate officer apparently was Colonel John
                                            S. Scott; Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XVI, Part I, pp.
                                            937–39, 960.
                              
                                 33 3:00 says ibid., 960; Brigadier
                                            General James R. Chalmers, C.S.A., said 5:00, ibid., 975.
                              
                                 34 The Union forces had one twelve-pounder heavy gun,
                                            one twelve-pounder Napoleon, one twelve-pounder howitzer, and one three-inch
                                            rifled gun under Lieutenant Mason of the 13th Indiana Battery; ibid., 961. Confederate artillery consisted of two six-pounders,
                                            two twelve-pounder howitzers, and two small mountain howitzers; ibid., 978.
                           
                                     The fight now became general We were completely
                                    surrounded The roar of artilery & small arms was terrific. The rebels were
                                    brave our men fought like tigers. Our quarters were in a hollow between the fort
                                    & stockade and the balls of the enemy from the attack on both fell among us.
                                    Some 12 or 20 shell burst near us. One shell [wobled thru?] the hospital tent, but
                                    did not explode For 4 hours the battle raged when a flag of truce was sent in by the
                                    enemy to remove their wounded & bury their dead. We learned that their loss
                                    was between 600 & 700 in killed & wounded. Our 41 We had a force of
                                    about 2.300. We learn their force was about 800035 Just as the
                                    battle was closing Col. Dunham came in with a force of about 40036 This did me so much good that I could not help shedding tears, as was also
                                    the case after I found that victory was ours. Major Albert of the 67th was killed. A
                                    braver man I think I never saw. He mounted the fortifications encouraging his men
                                    when he received a ball through the shoulders and died immediately.37 The first one killed was Sergt. Geo. T Rama of Com K 67 Reg.38 He was an excellent young man. One man had the end of his tongue shot
                                    off & his mouth badly torn two or three others were shot in the head. But it
                                    is unnecessary for me to undertake to describe them. In our rejoicing over our
                                    victory we had to lament the loss of our brave men. This was the first battle I ever
                                    witnessed. The crash[?] of arms & the roar of artilery was truly terriffic.
                                    I will not moralize, however. Our flag & staff received 110 shots from the
                                        enemy.39 I did not 
                              
                                 35 As usual, rumored numbers tend to be exaggerated. 
                                                United States
                                             forces consisted of 2,122 men, many of them recruits, of whom
                                            Colonel Wilder reported 37 were killed or wounded; ibid.,
                                            961. Wilder reported 714 Confederates wounded or killed; ibid., 962. The Confederates reported 1,613 men present with 35 killed
                                            and 253 wounded; ibid., 978. These reports of the
                                            commanding officers differ somewhat from the official casualty lists:
                                            Union—15 killed, 57 wounded, 4,076 captured or missing, ibid., 967; Confederates—35 killed, 250
                                            wounded, ibid.. 982.
                              
                                 36 Dunham brought six companies, ibid., 961, or 446 men, ibid., 963. For information
                                            on Dunham see note 19.
                              
                                 37 "Major Albert's" heroic
                                            death is also described in Scott, History of the 67th
                                            Regiment, 8, and Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XVI,
                                            Part I, p. 960. The spelling of his name varies greatly, however. In the Official Records he is listed as Augustus H. Abbott; Report of the Adjutant General, II, 614, lists him as
                                            Augustus H. Abbett; and Scott calls him Ablott (p. 8) and August A. Alebett
                                            (p. 123). He was from 
                                                Columbus
                                            , Indiana, and was mustered in and commissioned on September 5,
                                            1862.
                              
                                 38 In Scott, History of the 67th
                                                Regiment, 138, he is listed as Corporal George T. Ramy; this is
                                            also how he is identified in Report of the Adjutant
                                            General, VI, 84.
                              
                                 39 Scott, History of the 67th
                                            Regiment, 9, says 146; Official Records, Ser. I, Vol.
                                            XVI, Part I, p. 960, says flag 146 and staff 11.
                           
                                     think I could stand a battle so well; before
                                    the fight was over I was some what charmed with the musick of the shells &
                                    bulletts. I understand the forces brot. against us was the 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 26, 27
                                    Miss. 4 Reg. Cav.[?] from Louisana 7 pieces of Artilery & 5 mountain
                                    howitzers Com. by Brig. Gen Chalmers40 We had 4 pieces of
                                    Artilery. Thus was spent the holy Sabbath. The rebels kept their flag of truce up
                                    until night which we respected. At night we laid down expecting to renew the
                                    conflict at any moment.
                        Sept. 15. We expected to renew the conflict this morning, but when morning came we
                                    found the enemy gone.41 This was a day of rejoicing to us. We
                                    had whiped a very superior force of well drilled rebels with our raw troops. We
                                    buried our dead and kept a sharp look out for the enemy but were not molested during
                                    the day. Each one had some thing to relate of yesterdays affair. There were many
                                    hair bredth escapes.
                        Sept. 16. This morning I walked out on the battle field some distance from camp when
                                    our pickets commenced firing.42 We soon found the enemy were
                                    close upon us being reinforced. Our skirmishers were sent out immediately and soon
                                    our artilery commenced playing upon the enemy. The fight lasted most of the day. It
                                    was principly among the skirmishers Our loss was 7 wounded.43 In
                                    the evening a flag of truce was brot in demanding an unconditional surrender. This
                                    we refused to do. The parley continued all night. Col Wilder went out with the
                                    confederates to see their works and found them very extensive. They had about
                                        60[?]44 pieces of canon bearing upon us and we had but 10
                                    pieces. They claimed some 60.000 men.45 we had less than 4,000.
                                    I laid down after the fategus of the day & slept sweetly
                        
                           
                              40 The Confederate forces consisted of the 7th, 9th, 10th,
                                        29th, and 44th 
                                            Mississippi
                                         Regiments, a battalion of sharpshooters, and Ketchum's
                                        battery, all of the 2nd Brigade, Reserve Division, Right Wing, Army of the 
                                            Mississippi
                                        ; Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XVI, Part I, p.
                                        982. 
                                            United States
                                         troops were the 67th and 89th Indiana Regiments, one company of the
                                        18th Regulars, 204 recruits of the 17th Indiana, two companies of the 74th
                                        Indiana, one company cavalry, the 
                                            Louisville
                                         Provost Guard, the 13th Indiana battery, and sixty men from the
                                        33rd 
                                            Kentucky
                                        ; ibid., 961. Brigadier General James Ronald
                                        Chalmers (1831–1898) was the commander of the Confederate forces; Dictionary of American Biography, III, 593–94;
                                        Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 135, 575.
                           
                              41
                                        Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XVI, Part I, pp. 964, 971.
                           
                              42 About 9:30 a.m.; ibid., 965.
                           
                              43 Also ibid., 967.
                           
                              44 Actually forty-five pieces; see ibid., 962.
                           
                              45 Actually over 25,000; ibid.
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           MAP FROM THE BOWERS DIARY
                           
                           Courtesy of the Southwest Museum.
                        
                        
                        Sept. 17. About 4 ocl this morning we learned that we were surrendered46 We felt it keenely but could not help ourselves. About 8 ocl we were
                                    marched out some distance from camp when we were commanded to lay down our arms.47 O how affecting to see our brave boys who [list of
                                        wounded]48 fought so manfully on Sunday & yesterday,
                                    lay down their arms. I could hardly stand. Perhaps could not had it not have been
                                    for Capt. Applewhite. Many like myself wept like children. We were then commanded to
                                    march. In doing this we were compelled to march thru the ranks of the federals.49 They were the dirtiest hardest[?] and most disorganized set
                                    of men I ever saw. They generally treated us kindly Their officers generally treated
                                    us with much respect. After marching us out about 4 miles we were halted in a field
                                    [where/when?] the officers & privates were paroled Chaplains &
                                    Physicians excepted In the evening I gained permission of a Confederate Col. to
                                    return to camp. On reaching camp I found that both my trunks were broken open and
                                    their contents rifled, tho one of their generals had promised us protection for our
                                    private property. Every thing was gone [cloathing/cloaths?], papers, books, sermons
                                    stationary and all My sermons had cost me six years labor I regret it exceedingly. I
                                    then went to Woodsonville50 to the hospital to attend the sick
                                    The whole country was filled with rebels. I found quarters at Mrs. Millers, whose
                                    husband is in the Union army as a scout.
                        Sept. 18. I remained at the hospital to day not being able to get to our brigade The
                                    report had come that Gen. Buell51 was coming up in the rear of
                                    the enemy & they had formed along the road between our hospital &
                                    brigade. The confederates are great brags[?] many of them and yet they are anxious
                                    that the war should close. They talk of wintering in Indiana I informed some of
                                    their officers that if they ever got into Indiana 
                              
                                 46 Wilder's report indicates that the
                                            surrender took place at 2:00 a.m.; ibid.
                              
                              
                                 47 Wilder reports 6:00; ibid. According to General
                                            Braxton Bragg (C.S.A.) the Confederates got 4,000 prisoners, 4,000 small
                                            arms, and 10 pieces of artillery, as well as other supplies; ibid., 968.
                              
                                 48 Here Bowers included a list of the wounded men;
                                            this will be given at the end of the diary since it is not pertinent at this
                                            point.
                              
                                 49 Apparently he meant the Confederates.
                              
                                 50 Woodsonville, 
                                                Hart County
                                            , 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , was situated on the Green River opposite
                                            Munfordville; Baldwin and Thomas, New and Complete
                                            Gazetteer, 1311.
                              
                                 51 General Don Carlos Buell (1818–1898) was
                                            a West Point graduate who had served in the Mexican War. He was in command
                                            of the Union Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                             from November, 1861, to October, 1862; Dictionary
                                                of American Biography, III, 240–41.
                           
                                     they would never get out again. They might just
                                    as well think of wintering in the good world as in Indiana.
                        Sept. 19. I remained at the hospital to day untill about 3 o cl P. M. when we were
                                    informed that a flag of truce was going out from the fort to Gen. Buells lines. I
                                    started with some 30 others, but after we had got out about 4 ms. we were halted for
                                    the night. Dr. L. & my self went to Gen. Buckner52 who
                                    gave us & the other officers permission to go a mile further to a farm house
                                    where we found lodging for the night. Gen. Buckner let us off on parole the
                                    condition of which was that we report our selves at the quarters of the other men.
                                    The general treated us with much kindness. We found pretty good quarters at a
                                    service[?] mens residence. An intelligent Confederate Physician—Dr.
                                    Hall—remained with us tho the night.
                        Sept. 20 Early this morning we took our breakfasts & started back to
                                    quarters. When we reached our quarters we found the order for transporting us. out
                                    of our lines had been countermanded & we were and we were [sic] marched back 5 ms to Woodsonville. We learned that our Brigade had gone
                                    on About 2 hours by sun P.M. the rebels set fire to the R. R. bridge & soon
                                    after to the pontoon bridge, having previously fired the tents & equipage
                                    they captured from us, especially such as they could not carry[?] with them. Our
                                    cooking utensils they destroyed by striking them with picks. In the bridges they
                                    destroyed some 40.000 dollars worth of property, such is rebel protection.
                        Sept. 21. This is the holy Sabboth. This morning we buried one of the soldiers of the
                                    67th by the name of White from 
                                        Seymour
                                    [?], Ind. He was shot in the head on last Sunday.53
                                    In the afternoon we heard the firing of the Union pickets & rebel cavalry.
                                    Soon the engagement begun in earnest The rebels commenced retreating tho. town. The
                                    artilery soon commenced. I found shelter in Dr. Gardeners residence but soon found
                                    it poor shelter for a rebel ball passed tho. the house and another exploded by the
                                    front door & several in the vicinity. The cannonading 
                              
                                 52 Major General Simon Bolivar Buckner
                                            (1823–1914), C.S.A., was a native of the Munfordville area. He
                                            was a graduate of West Point, served in the Mexican War, taught at West
                                            Point, and was stationed at various forts until he resigned in 1855. He
                                            joined the Confederacy as a brigadier general and was the commander who
                                            surrendered Ft. Donelson in February, 1862. He was exchanged as a prisoner
                                            of war in August, 1862. Dictionary of American Biography,
                                            III, 234–36.
                              
                                 53 Probably Private Joseph B. White of Co. G, 67th
                                            Regiment. He was enrolled at Jackson County, Indiana, on July 16, 1862, and
                                            was twenty years old. ISL Cards; Report of the Adjutant
                                                General, VI, 81.
                           
                                     continued one or two hours we being in immanent
                                    peril all the time. After it had ceased I opened the door & saw our troops
                                    approaching One Lt. took me for a rebel I suppose but I commenced cheering him
                                    & he laughfed & went on. I was never so rejoiced to see our
                                    soldiers. I took them by the hand & welcomed them as only a union soldier in
                                    captivity can welcome a brother hoosier. Our cavalry[?] now came up & after
                                    passing tho. the town had another engagement with the rebels but they skedadled in a
                                    hurry. I learn their loss is 8 killed & several wounded among them one Col.
                                    Our loss three wounded one killed. I met Gen's Buell & Woods to
                                    night
                        Sept. 22. I have been quite sick to day. In fact have been confined to my bed most of
                                    the day. Met Gens. Rassow[?], Smith & McCook to day. Saw Col. Wilder he has
                                    been exchanged and has joined the service again. Glad to see him. Dr. Gardener of
                                    Woodsonville gave me a horse this morning & Capt Hotchkis of one of the Min.
                                    Bat. gave me a saddle & bridle. This after noon Dr. Stilwell54 of the 22 Reg. came into my room to see me I was rejoiced to see him.
                                    He agreed to stay with me tho. the night & I to accompany him tomorrow. My
                                    health is quite poor.
                        Sept. 23. In com. with Dr Stilwell I left Woodsonville early this morning. I was
                                    quite weak but succeeded in traveling 21 ms. against 2 o cl P.M. It is quite hard on
                                    me to ride so far without any thing to eat of account on the way. The dust is deep.
                                    After I got to our (22) Reg. I got into an ambulance but we rode 21 ms before we got
                                    to it. Traveled about 32 ms to day. Camped with the 22 Ind. Several of them got
                                    drunk and a Lt. shot at a squad. One of the men struck him with a rod which wounded
                                    him severely. There is much profanity in this Reg. and I should think much
                                    insubordination. We camped near 
                                        Elizabethtown
                                    .55
                        
                        Sept. 24. We left 
                                        Elizabethtown
                                     early this morning. Nothing of unusual interest transpired to day. We
                                    heard that an Army in Md. had captured some 15 or 18000 rebels and that we had been
                                    successful in our late engagements there.56 I rode in 
                              
                                 54 Joseph A. Stillwell was assistant surgeon of the
                                            22nd Indiana Regiment. He was twenty-eight years old when he was mustered in
                                            at 
                                                Madison
                                            , Indiana, on August 15, 1861. He became surgeon on February 3,
                                            1863, and was mustered out at 
                                    Louisville, Kentucky
                                 , on July 24, 1865. ISL Cards; Report of the Adjutant General, II, 211.
                              
                                 55
                                            
                                                Elizabethtown
                                            , 
                                                Hardin County
                                            , 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , was forty-three miles southwest of 
                                                Louisville
                                            ; Baldwin and Thomas, New and Complete
                                            Gazetteer, 354.
                              
                                 56 This exaggerated rumor undoubtedly refers to the
                                            very bloody Battle of 
                                                Antietam
                                             fought on September 17, 1862. Robert E. Lee returned to 
                                                Virginia
                                             after the battle, so it was a Union victory, although losses
                                            were very heavy.
                           
                                     an ambulance till night. Then I got out
                                    & walked some 6 ms to camp We stoped & took our dinners about noon
                                    We have traveled about 24 ms to day & camped at the mouth of Salt
                                        river. I have suffered greatly to day from neuralgia in my face. Our
                                    Conference meets to day at 
                                        Greencastle
                                     I should like to be with them very much. May the Lord preside over
                                    & direct them.
                        Sept. 25. We arose this morning and found ourselves by the Ohio
                                    River. The Indiana hills looked charmingly. No doubt many a weatherbeaten
                                    soldier longed to stand upon them & feel free from soldier life. I could eat
                                    not breakfast but drank a cup of coffee Our march today was a tedious one yet we
                                    made but some 15 ms. We got no dinner. I eat a biscuit & som ham. We
                                    encamped some 10 ms below 
                                        Louisville
                                     near Greenwood. Our provision wagon was behind, consequently we went to
                                    rest, if rest it was, without our regular supper. I had carried an ear of corn a
                                    mile or two, from a field where I had plucked it that I roasted & et half of
                                    it. Some one gave me a cup of coffee & another gave me some pieces of
                                    crackers. About 11 o cl. we were called up & ordered to march that fight at 
                                        Louisville
                                     had commenced I saddled my horse & waited till about 12 when
                                    the order came that we were to march at three o cl. I then retired again
                        Sept. 26. I got up at 3 o cl & et my breakfast but found we were not going to
                                    march immediately & retired for the third time. I arose at daylight and had
                                    an interview with General 
                                        Mitchell
                                     who refered me to Col. Wilder & Gen. Buel in reference to a
                                    pass to New 
                                        Albany
                                    .57 I learned that we were to march at 9 o cl A.M.
                                    We did march at about that time and reached 
                                        Louisville
                                     at night. I stoped at the U. S. hotell in company with Chap.
                                    Kenedery[?] of 
                                        Ohio
                                    .
                        Sept. 27. I procured a pass to 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                     & 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     Got over to 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    , but found the cars do not go out until tomorrow evening Put up at a
                                    hotell where there was a bar & all kinds of uncomfertableness
                        Sept. 28. This is the Holy Sabbeth I attended class meeting this morning. There were
                                    but 5 of us present but we had a gracious class meeting I attended preaching at 11 o
                                    cl Dr E. G. Wood preach a splended sermon. I was much comforted. I dined with Bro.
                                    Behurnell[?]. There is some 200,000 soldiers in & around 
                                        Louisville
                                    . I took the car at 10 o cl P.M. & came to 
                                        Seymour
                                    .
                        
                           
                              57 New 
                                 Albany, Floyd
                                        County
                              , Indiana; Baldwin and Thomas, New and
                                            Complete Gazetteer, 766.
                        
                        
                        Sept. 29 Reached home this morning, found my family well. The people appeared glad to
                                    see me after our captivity I am glad to see my family could I enjoy better
                                health
                     
                  
               
                
            
               LIST OF WOUNDED SOLDIERS
               Jas. Rodman Com. E. 67 Reg. Nurse58
               
               J. T. Henderson Com. E. 67 Reg. Sick59
               
               C. H. Newby Com. F 67 Reg. Sick60
               
               Sam. Brumfield Com. F. 60 Reg Nurse
               Jas. R. Adkins Com E. 67 Reg. Sick61
               
               E. K. Davidson Com. A. 1 Reg. O. V. Art. Wounded in left side by ball
               Amos Jeffres Com. K. 74 Reg Sick62
               
               Leonard Harvey Com. E. 67 Reg Two fingers of left hand shot off. Accident63
               
               Salathiel Lightener Com. K. 74. Reg. wounded by having left arm shot & amputated64
               
               Roderick Henry Com. F. 67. Reg. wounded in mouth by ball65
               
               John Gessitt[?] Com. G. 67. Reg. wounded in the head by ball66
               
            
            
               
                  58 James T. Rodman, a twenty-five-year-old farmer from 
                            Brownstown
                        , was a private; he died on March 17, 1863, in 
                     Memphis, Tennessee
                  .
                        ISL Cards; Report of the Adjutant General, VI, 78.
               
                  59 John T. Henderson was at that time a corporal. A native of 
                            Kentucky
                         who listed his occupation as mason, he was twenty-eight when he was enrolled at 
                            Brownstown
                         on August 5, 1862. At one point he became a first sergeant and was transferred to
                        Company H of the 24th Regiment. When he was discharged on May 23, 1865, he was suffering from
                        some type of disability. ISL Cards; Scott, History of the 67th Regiment, 131;
                            Report of the Adjutant General, VI, 77.
               
                  60 Charles H. Newby, age twenty-eight, was enrolled as a private at
                        Medora, Indiana, on August 9, 1862; ISL Cards; Report of the Adjutant General,
                        VI, 79.
               
                  61 James R. Atkins, who was eighteen when he was enrolled at 
                            Brownstown
                        , was born in Indiana and gave his occupation as farmer. He died at
                                
                     Memphis, Tennessee
                  , on an unknown date, from wounds received at 
                            Arkansas
                         Post, 
                            Arkansas
                        , on January 11, 1863; ISL Cards; Report of the Adjutant General,
                        VI, 77.
               
                  62 See Report of the Adjutant General, VI, 214.
               
                  63 Actually Leonard Haney, a twenty-five-year-old minister, who was born
                        in Indiana and enrolled at 
                            Brownstown
                        . He was discharged at Munfordville on December 1, 1862, because of his wound, which
                        he suffered on September 11 (see diary entry). ISL Cards; Report of the Adjutant
                            General, VI, 77.
               
                  64 See Report of the Adjutant General, VI, 214.
               
                  65 Private Roderick Henry was twenty-eight when he was enrolled in 
                            Bartholomew County
                        , Indiana, on July 26, 1862; ISL Cards. Report of the Adjutant
                        General, VI, 83, lists Henry as being in Company I.
               
                  66 Twenty-three-year-old Private John W. Gossett was enrolled on July 10,
                        1862, in Jackson County, Indiana. He died on September 26, 1862, as a result of this wound, at
                        Munfordville; ISL Cards; Report of the Adjutant General, VI, 80.
            
            
            EPILOGUE
            Stephen Bowers's health worsened after his return home, and later diary entries indicated
                    that he had been seriously sick. On January 21, 1863, he wrote that he was "suffering with
                    enlargement of the liver and a nervousness." He was never able to rejoin his regiment for
                    longer than several days, and he was discharged May 4, 1863, due to ill health, which he later
                    described as "chronic inflamation of the liver or hepatitus, brought on by
                        exposure."67
            
            Until 1871 Bowers continued to serve various Methodist churches in Indiana. In that year he was
                    transferred to 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1873 to 
                        Oregon
                    , then to 
                        California
                    , and in 1877 back to Indiana, where he left the pastorate in 1878.68
            
            Bowers's later career was varied and controversial. He returned to 
                        California
                     and located in the Santa Barbara and Ventura areas, where he was involved in editing
                    several reform-minded newspapers, including the Ventura Observer, the Free Press, the Vidette, and the Santa Paula Golden
                    State. Particular targets for his criticisms were local saloons and county government.69 He also was an avid excavator of Chumash Indian relics along the Santa
                    Barbara coast. Although one later archaeologist characterized Bowers with disdain as a "pot
                    hunter," this was chiefly because Bowers worked before the days of modern standardized
                    field methods. Recent research has shown that he was actually more observant than most
                    archaeologists of his time. Bowers shipped the majority of his many finds to the Smithsonian
                        Institution.70 Under 
                        California
                    
                    
                  
                     67 Various later diary entries such as those of November 1, 18, and
                            20, 1862, indicate some brief contacts with his regiment; others cannot be ascertained since
                            entries became so sporadic. Statement of Army Service, Bowers Pension File. The Pension
                            Office Report, Bowers Pension File, lists him as absent on sick leave from November 1, 1862,
                            on. Between September 29 and this date his regiment was apparently on furlough; Bowers
                            Diary, October 3, 1862; Scott, History of the 67th Regiment, 10.
                  
                     68 Methodist Archives List.
                  
                     69 Charles F. Outland, "Dr. Stephen Bowers,
                            Controversialist," Ventura County Historical Society Quarterly,
                            IV (November, 1958), 2; Bowers's obituary appeared in the 
                                Los Angeles
                            
                            Times, January 6, 1907.
                  
                     70 David Banks Rogers, Prehistoric Man of the Santa
                                Barbara Coast (Santa Barbara, 1929), 37. Arlene Svea Benson, "The Noontide
                            Sun: The Field Notes and Unpublished Manuscripts of the Rev. Stephen Bowers" (M.A.
                            Thesis, 
                                California
                             State University, Northridge, 1982). Benson believes that "Bowers
                            functions as a scapegoat for the past sins of the profession. Until the quite recent past,
                            archaeologists have not been sensitive to the feelings of Native Americans about the
                            treatment of osteological remains. Since Bowers worked primarily in cemeteries, he is an
                            ideal scapegoat for these perceived sins." Benson to Glenna Schroeder, June 25,
                            1982.
               
                     governor Harry F. Gage, Bowers was appointed and served as
                    state mine examiner and geologist in the field.71 He was an active lecturer on
                    Biblical, scientific, and prohibition topics and continued to preach in various churches until his
                        death.72
            
            After the death of his second wife, Bowers married Margaret Dickson Ellison, a widow from Plattville, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , on November 10, 1880.73 Their daughter Florence May was born
                    January 15, 1885.74 In 1888 the family moved to 
                        Los Angeles
                    , where Bowers resided until his death of endocarditis on January 5, 1907, at the age of
                        seventy-four.75
            
            
               
                  71 Bowers Collection, Southwest Museum. Several other diary volumes record
                        some of his activities during this time.
               
                  72
                        Ibid.; 
                            Los Angeles
                        
                        Times, January 6, 1907.
               
                  73 Bowers/Bailey Affidavit, Bowers Pension File; Pension Questionnaire,
                            ibid. The third Mrs. Bowers was born about 1845 and died in late 1913 or
                        early 1914; Declaration for Widow's Pension, ibid.; Pensioner Dropped Form, April 9,
                        1914, ibid.
               
               
                  74 Pension Questionnaire, Bowers Pension File. Florence is listed as Mrs.
                        Dale G. Cooper of Long Beach in the 
                            Los Angeles
                        
                        Times, January 6, 1907.
               
                  75
                        
                            Los Angeles
                        
                        Times, January 6, 1907; Certificate of Death, Bowers Pension File.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indiana Through Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier State and Its People,
                        1920–1945. By James H. Madison. The History of Indiana, Volume V. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1982. Pp. xvii, 453. Notes, illustrations, maps, tables,
                    figures, bibliographical essay, index. Clothbound, $12.00; paperbound, $6.00.)
            The Indiana Historical Society should be proud of its selection of James H. Madison to author this
                    volume in the History of Indiana series. He has produced an exceptionally well
                    researched study of the state between 1920 and 1945. He has diligently pulled together available
                    primary materials, including oral history, and an excellent array of secondary sources. An example
                    of the latter is his use of M.A. theses and Ph.D. dissertations.
            The first five chapters of the book use a chronological format, and the succeeding seven chapters are
                    topical. This arrangement enables the reader to establish political pegs on which to hang the
                    economic, social, and cultural developments of the period. In addition the author provides an
                    illuminating backdrop of national events in order to provide an interesting comparison between
                    Indiana and the rest of the nation.
            Although Madison was not able to use Joel Garreau's Nine Nations of North
                        America (
                        Boston
                    , 1981), he reached similar conclusions about Indiana's political, social, and
                    economic makeup. According to Garreau, Indiana is one of the few states that manages to incorporate
                    three regions within its boundaries—"The Breadbasket," "The
                    Foundry," and "Dixie." 
                        Madison
                     uses the concept to illustrate Indiana's changes in the twentieth century.
            Hoosiers in the southern half of the state are related politically, economically, and socially to
                    their fellow Americans south of the Ohio River. Agriculture in the broad
                    fertile central area west of 
                        Indianapolis
                     illustrates the zeal for scientific agriculture as applied to corn and beans and
                    livestock in the "Breadbasket." Indiana also developed a significant industrial
                    base in primary industries such as steel production, transportation, and oil products during the
                    first half of the century and thereby became an important component of the
                    "Foundry."
            
               
                        Madison
                     explores the complex political interests of Indiana with an appreciation for the three
                    areas of the state mentioned above. The urbanization and industrialization of Indiana altered  political coalitions, and the Great Depression affected
                    political leadership. Even today, however, the state retains its basic political outlook and remains
                    divided along the dimensions observed by Garreau.
            An interesting feature of this study is 
                        Madison
                    's inclusion of thumbnail biographies of individuals who have shaped
                    Indiana's history. Especially valuable are his observations about Claude R. Wickard, Paul
                    V. McNutt, and Dr. Ada Schweitzer, to name only a few. These individuals reacted to events and
                    helped to shape the state's response to the twentieth century.
            Indiana's history reflects the triumphs and tragedies in our recent history. During the
                    1930s and 1940s labor organizations and scientific agriculture in the state helped to usher in a
                    rising standard of living. Political reorganization in the 1930s enabled the state to cope with a
                    mass society. Even the tragedy of Ku Klux Klan activities of the 1920s gave way to subsequent
                    improvement in race relations.
            Finally, the Society should be congratulated on the desire to produce a well-turned-out book. The
                    type face is clean, footnotes appear at the bottom of the page, the bibliographical essay will be
                    useful to students of the state's history for many years to come, and the index is
                    carefully prepared. This effort has enhanced the author's purpose to focus on the
                    relationship of Indiana to the rest of the nation.
            
               Eastern 
                            Illinois
                         University, 
                            Charleston
                        
                David J. Maurer
         
         
            
               Their Infinite Variety: Essays on Indiana Politicians. Indiana Historical
                        Collections, Volume LIII. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1981. Pp. viii, 488. Illustrations, notes, bibliographic
                    essays, index. Clothbound, $25.00; paperbound, $16.00.)
            
               Their Infinite Variety is a companion volume to Gentlemen from
                        Indiana: National Party Candidates, 1836–1940, edited by Ralph D. Gray in 1977
                    and reviewed in this journal by Holman Hamilton (June, 1978, pp. 157–58). Like the
                    earlier volume in the Indiana Historical Bureau's ambitious series, this book is composed
                    of twelve essays, in this instance spotlighting "a variety of Hoosier politicians, from the
                    famous to the relatively unknown" (p. v). Spanning the period from William Hendricks and
                    early statehood to Charles Marion LaFollette in World War II and the early Cold War, these essays
                    reassess the role of Hoosier politicians within biographic contexts. Lorna Lutes  Sylvester limits her careful examination of Oliver P. Morton more
                    narrowly to his extraordinary direction of Indiana finances, 1863–1865, while Philip R.
                    VanderMeer, through the use of collective biography, departs more substantially from the typical
                    format of the essays in his analysis of speakers of the Indiana House of Representatives,
                    1896–1920. A number of pieces are based on recent dissertations from Indiana University;
                    all reflect the most recent scholarship on their topics.
            Readers will naturally respond differently to the selection of subjects and the coverage of each.
                    This reviewer was most fascinated by Charles W. Calhoun's masterful treatment of Walter Q.
                    Gresham as a Republican "Jeremiah" torn by contraditions and quixotic drives and
                    by Ernest C. Bolt, Jr.'s discussion of Louis L. Ludlow, who can now be understood as a more
                    sympathetic figure than the stereotypical isolationist and peace advocate of war referendum
                    reputation. In addition to LaFollette and Ludlow, coverage of Will H. Hays brings to three the
                    number of twentieth-century figures examined; Henry Smith Lane, Jesse David Bright, Lew Wallace,
                    James "Blue Jeans" Williams, and John W. Foster round out the nineteenth-century
                    Hoosier politicians. The collection is especially strong in covering the turbulent 1850s and 1860s
                    as well as demonstrating the personal pettiness and political maneuvering that cut across the
                    generations.
            Whether Their Infinite Variety comes close to an adequate title or a conceptual
                    means of unifying this collection is doubtful. All of the subjects are white men of greater
                    education and wealth than their peers and with moderate electoral or appointive successes; nearly
                    all were fiscal conservatives. The contradiction between the title and the actual coverage points
                    out the urgent need for accelerated study of women and ethnic politicians in Hoosierland along with
                    radicals, failures, and those whose faces were more likely to grace post office walls than postage
                    stamps. Within the context of this book, one especially wishes to know more from Sylvester of
                    Morton's postwar state and national role; conversely, Lew Wallace may not warrant as full a
                    coverage as he receives, and "Blue Jeans" Williams does not become as politically
                    believable as he certainly must have been. More serious is the felt need for an ample introduction
                    or afterword to provide more focus and synthesis to the various parts of this volume. In fact, it is
                    not clear how this book came together, as no editor seems to claim responsibility for it. So much is
                    the pity, for other aspects of the editing and production are excellent: there are no typographical
                         errors, the index is sufficient, the binding and typography
                    are handsome, and the footnotes and bibliographic essays are a guided tour through the current
                    source materials of Indiana political history.
            Aficionados of Indiana history or political biography will devour this book from cover to cover; for
                    others it will serve as reserved reading to supplement textbooks in Indiana history courses or as a
                    useful library reference work.
            
               Indiana University-Purdue University at 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                Clifford H. Scott
         
         
            
               Water Runs Downhill: A History of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Water Company and Other Centenarians. By Marjie Gates Giffin. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Privately printed, 1981. Pp. 251. Illustrations, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $9.95; paperbound, $5.95.)
            A good history of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Water Company would be extremely valuable to students of the city's past.
                    Little now exists on the subject, and what does is scattered, fragmentary, and dated. Such a
                    pioneering work would require the labor of several years. Water Runs Downhill is
                    not that work. Most of the familiar histories of 
                        Indianapolis
                     appear in the bibliography, along with newspaper items, magazine articles, a few
                    company pamphlets, and numerous interviews with past and present employees. Research for this book
                    thus entailed no small effort, but the result, nonetheless, is not serious history. There are no
                    maps or charts or footnotes. The photographs are often pointless. The number of employees at any
                    time in the company's history is never stated, nor is the company the true spine of the
                    book. Rather, the narrative follows the lives of the managers and owners with the emphasis as much
                    on their careers outside as within the firm.
            The writer, the wife of the company's director of governmental affairs, was assured that the
                    project was "not intended as a routine exercise in corporate goodwill," and she
                    asserts that the book stands as a "candid account" (p. 5). In the Preface, the
                    chairman of the board expresses the hope that although "judgments tend to be less critical
                    of the living," the reader "will not misinterpret… favorable
                    comments" about company officials (p. 3). Here the board chairman is the better guide, for
                    the work is a litany of all that is of good report of company officials since its founding. This is
                    not always easy:  strenuous effort and psychological obtuseness
                    are required to conclude that Clarence Geist, owner of the water company from 1912 to 1938, a
                    boorish, unlovable rogue, was down deep an engaging softy.
            Apparently the author was under serious time constraints, which would explain certain problems of
                    style. There is persistent resort to cliché: noses are put to grindstones, occasions are
                    momentous, fate smiles, ears are bent, pride is pointed to, minds are boggled, laurels are rested
                    on, and, inevitably, waters are muddied and go over dams. Locutions of uncertainty alternate with
                    locutions of emphatic assertion; that is, too often things are "reputedly,"
                    "reportedly," "must have been," "maybe,"
                    "perhaps," "apparently," or they are "truly,"
                    "in truth," "indeed," "in fact,"
                    "certainly," "even," "undoubtedly," and
                    "needless to say." Moreover, a breezy style and efforts at fine writing produce
                    some peculiarities: Crown Hill Cemetery, once a popular picnic spot accessible
                    by trolley and canal boat, is the "tombstone terminal" (p. 42). Describing the
                    city's celebration of the new century, the author allows that "those were fun
                    times, for sure" (p. 48). Thomas A. Morris, a civil engineer with a lifelong interest in
                    railroads (the "iron horse," p. 34), is a man who "ultimately carved his
                    name along the most progressive tracks of the times" (p. 35).
            While the primary audience for this work is neither the serious student nor the general reader but
                    the relatives, friends, and employees of the management, the book is often interesting. A story
                    involving a Geist or the Murchison brothers of Texas has its fascination. More important, at times
                    the book suggests one of the realities of a privately owned public utility—or of any big
                    business—the necessarily close relationships between private and public loci of power and
                    influence. The text contains hints of the network of elite leadership in the city and the
                    realization that political ability in a manager is as useful to a firm as business acumen. Finally,
                    the book tells more than was previously known about an important 
                        Indianapolis
                     institution.
            
               Marian College, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                William J. Doherty
         
         
            
               Town on the Ridge: A History of Munster, Indiana. By Lance Trusty. (
                        Hammond
                    : Regional Studies Institute, Purdue University Calumet, 1982. Pp. 71. Illustrations,
                    maps, appendix, bibliography, index. $5.00.)
            In anticipation of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the town of Munster's incorporation
                    (1907), Lance Trusty has written a  fact-filled account that
                    chronicles the development of a Dutch farming community into a bustling, prosperous suburb. In 1910,
                    three years after its incorporation, Munster's population numbered 543, the majority of
                    whom were involved in agriculture. By 1960 the "town on the ridge" had reached
                    10,313 in population and had become "the home of the highest percentage of professional and
                    managerial people of any town or city in the state" (p. 41); by 1982 Munster had well over
                    20,000 residents, whose "average educational level, income, and standard of living were
                    among the highest in Northwest Indiana" (p. 48).
            The town's rapid growth, particularly during the 1930s, created a sense of buoyancy and a
                    level of expectation that ushered in succeeding decades of continued growth accompanied by numerous
                    difficulties. Attracted to the town by its clean air, low taxes, little or no crime, good zoning
                    laws, and sound government, Munster's new residents came seeking the "good
                    life"—"the greatest amount of happiness… with the minimum
                    expense… " (p. 33). However, the sheer number of ex-urbanites who came (largely
                    from 
                  Chicago, Illinois
               , and 
                        Hammond
                     and Gary, Indiana) gave rise to immediate demands for more public
                    works—sewers, roads, waste collection and disposal services, parks,
                    schools—and countless other civic improvements that collectively make life comfortable
                    but also expensive. The town's founders and their families, confused and somewhat
                    bewildered by these events, sold their farms and moved to rural communities farther south.
            Left alone to determine their future, Munster's new residents continued to develop farmland
                    into sites for new homes, schools, churches, and shops. They gave birth to a whole range of social
                    clubs and civic organizations. Solidly Republican and racially homogeneous, they persisted in their
                    support for small government, low taxes, rapid expansion, and a high level of
                    municipal service. Only gradually and after many heated discussions did they come to realize that
                    water, transportation, fire protection, health care, etc., were costly commodities even when managed
                    well.
            On their seventy-fifth anniversary Munsterites have reason to be proud. They have created a
                    relatively pleasant place to live, and Trusty has shown, in brief, how they did it. However, what he
                    has failed to explain, even briefly, is why such a determined and right-minded people (who
                    subsequently erected a billboard to welcome visitors to the "Town of Integrity")
                    worked so hard to create the "good life" and then refused to share it with all.
                    This omission is a critical one since Munster serves as a bedroom community for two large racially
                    heterogeneous  cities, 
                        Chicago
                     and Gary. In this short history the author does not treat adequately the processes of
                    urbanization and suburbanization—subjects that deserve careful examination by students
                    and teachers of Indiana history. Yet the author and those who assisted him should be commended for
                    their work, the first full-fledged explanation by a professional (Trusty is director of the Regional
                    Studies Institute at Purdue University Calumet) of how Munster came to be.
            
               
                  
                            North Carolina
                         Division of Archives and History, Raleigh Suellen Hoy
         
         
            
               Beware the People Weeping: Public Opinion and the Assassination of Abraham
                    Lincoln. By Thomas Reed Turner. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1982. Pp. xvi, 265. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $27.50.)
            "Beware the People weeping/ When they bare the iron hand." Herman Melville wrote
                    these words to express the mood of America in the aftermath of the assassination of Abraham
                    Lincoln—a mood of vengeful anger and suspicion. Appropriately, Thomas Reed Turner employs
                    Melville's insights as the thematic thread for a carefully woven analysis of the public
                    reaction to that first presidential murder. The result is a refreshing corrective to a century of
                    historical distortion.
            Eschewing the elaborate conspiracy theories so often paraded by historians, Turner seeks to put the
                    events surrounding 
                        Lincoln
                    's death in their actual historical context: the "terrible whirlwind
                    of opinion" (p. 52), the public fury which swirled about the pursuit of the conspirators
                    and their trials and which led to the widespread conviction that southern leaders and wily Radicals
                    were behind the plot. To reach this goal he integrates "what is valid in the views of
                    contemporaries with what is valid in recently discovered materials" and thus places 
                        Lincoln
                    's assassination "in its proper historical setting" (p.
                    xiii).
            It is precisely in depicting that setting that Turner is most successful. With remarkable detail he
                    describes the manner in which John Wilkes Booth's pistol ball transformed the spirit of the
                    American people from one of exaltation at war's end to "despair rapidly turned to
                    anger and thoughts of vengeance" (p. 24). Under the impact of that shift, the government,
                    led by Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton, pursued and captured the accused and brought them to trial
                    by military tribunals. These events are painstakingly examined in light of the rage and  despair which enveloped them. Half of the volume, for example,
                    demonstrates how bitter public opinion, reflected in diaries, sermons, letters, and newspapers,
                    affected the nature and results of the trials of such conspirators as Mary and John Surratt and the
                    celebrated Dr. Samuel Mudd.
            Woven throughout are fresh contributions to the historiography of the 
                        Lincoln
                     assassination. Turner rightly scores historians for acting "as if the
                    assassination occurred in a vacuum" (p. 252), and his attacks on the conclusions drawn by
                    Otto Eisenschiml, Vaughn Shelton, and the sensationalistic 
                  
                            Lincoln
                         Conspiracy are clearly on target. In a revisionist spirit Turner defends the
                    much-maligned Stanton, showing how the war secretary, given the prevailing shock and fear, performed
                    both capably and judiciously. Likewise, he argues cogently for the appropriateness of military
                    trials as the "best means of revealing the full extent of the conspiracy" (p.
                    251). Though his treatment of these controversial subjects often seems belabored, such grappling
                    with the critical issues may compel historians to reconsider one of America's most painful
                    moments.
            
               Franklin College, 
                            Franklin
                        , Indiana Lloyd A. Hunter
         
         
            
               Abraham Lincoln: The Quest for Immortality. By Dwight G. Anderson. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1982. Pp. viii, 271. Appendix, notes, index. $16.95.)
            Dwight G. Anderson, who teaches political science at San Diego State University, has undertaken a
                    study of Abraham Lincoln with the objective of resolving the problem of the "two
                    Lincolns." He also hopes to provide "not only a better understanding of the man,
                    but a fuller appreciation of his impact on American political culture." The resulting
                    product is one that is difficult to define or categorize, for it contains, among others, elements of
                    political science, biography, historiography, intellectual history, literature, and psychohistory.
            Dividing his volume into four chapters, each subdivided further into additional units of varying
                    length, Anderson boldly and forcefully argues his position as he seeks to attain his stated
                    objectives. He insists that previous scholars of 
                        Lincoln
                     have not focused their attention closely enough on Parson Weems's Life of 
                            Washington
                        
                or on 
                        Lincoln
                    's Lyceum Address at 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , of
                    January 27, 1838. Both provide valuable and significant insights into 
                        Lincoln
                     that have been largely minimized or neglected. Indeed, the text of the Lyceum Address
                         may be found in the appendix to his work, so crucial does
                    Anderson believe it to be for a better and more accurate understanding of the Civil War leader.
            Anderson examines 
                        Lincoln
                    's religious beliefs and practices, his obsession with death and dying, his
                    concern about immortality, and his moodiness. Little is offered that is new or has not previously
                    been studied in greater depth. Similarly, the discussion of the 
                        United States
                     as the new 
                        Israel
                     breaks no new ground. What is fundamentally creative is Anderson's contention
                    that a new 
                        Lincoln
                     emerged from defeat, rejection, and despondency after 1854. The new or reborn 
                        Lincoln
                     now sought to achieve immortality through a political career on the national level, an
                    effort which, if successful, could establish a new political religion for the nation. This
                    "new" 
                        Lincoln
                     deliberately and calculatingly seized his opportunity with the development of the
                    secession crisis and subsequent conflict. Thus, Anderson argues, 
                        Lincoln
                     could now symbolically re-enact the Revolution and create the Constitution anew,
                    thereby superceding even George Washington as a "father" of his country. Indeed,
                    avers Anderson, 
                        Lincoln
                     rather than 
                        Washington
                     has served as the model for such modern presidents as the two Roosevelts, Wood-row
                    Wilson, and John F. Kennedy.
            Anderson's volume is certainly stimulating, provocative, and challenging, but it is not
                    necessarily convincing. He supports his central thesis with a mass of evidence, as his copious notes
                    readily confirm. Yet one's credulity is strained to accept the picture of 
                        Lincoln
                     striving coolly and indefatigably to supplant 
                        Washington
                    , to re-create the nation, and to overcome death. The persistence with which Anderson
                    repeatedly pounds home his elemental idea creates suspicion about the plausibility of his position.
                    Indeed, it would not be an exaggeration to suggest that Anderson's treatise reads like a
                    legal brief, argumentative, overbearing, and on occasion stylistically infelicitous. Nevertheless,
                    he has provided, perhaps, another piece for the 
                        Lincoln
                     puzzle, one which present and future scholars will need to consider.
            
               Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        
                Morton M. Rosenberg
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                        's Quest for Union: Public and Private Meanings. By Charles B.
                    Strozier. (
                        New York
                    : Basic Books, Inc., Publishers, 1982. Pp. xxiii, 271. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $17.50.)
            This book is not, as the publisher insists, a "major new biography" of 
                        Lincoln
                    . Charles B. Strozier, who holds academic appointments in both history and psychiatry
                    and serves as editor of The Psychohistory Review, rather describes it as a study
                    of 
                        Lincoln
                    's personality and character from an "avowedly
                    psychohistorical" approach; that is, one that employs "concepts from
                    psychoanalytic theory" in an attempt to identify the "real" 
                        Lincoln
                     (p. xi). Lest that description put off potential readers, it should be said at the
                    outset that the psychoanalysis has been muted and the use of jargon carefully avoided. Indeed, the
                    occasional references to the speculations of Sigmund Freud, Heinz Kohut (to whom the author
                    acknowledges a special debt), and others often seem intrusive and gratuitious. For example, one need
                    not appeal to psychoanalytic theory to be persuaded that humor held a particularly therapeutic value
                    for 
                        Lincoln
                     (the point has been made many times), nor is it difficult to see that much of 
                        Lincoln
                    's early behavior stemmed from a search for "personal coherence and
                    integrity" without knowing that that search made sense "in terms of psychoanalytic
                    conceptualizations of identity" (p. 35). At other points, the author's theorizing
                    appears less credible, as when he determines that the nine-year-old 
                        Lincoln
                     unconsciously explained his mother's death as a punishment for his
                    "earlier forbidden sexual desires" (p. 26). At such times, however, Strozier
                    alerts the reader to his own uncertainty through his use of highly tentative language. The
                    "real" 
                        Lincoln
                    , he concedes, still remains obscure.
            Strozier offers a series of interpretive chapters focusing largely on the pre-presidential 
                        Lincoln
                    : his childhood; his young manhood (including his relations with women); his
                    relationship with his father and with the Founding Fathers (in which the Lyceum Address is subjected
                    once again to scrutiny—why cannot the address ever be seen for what it was, a typical
                    Whig diatribe against the breakdown of order associated with romantic democracy and the dictatorship
                    of King Andrew I?); his continuing search for order through the law; his political rhetoric
                    (emphasizing his congressional term and the House Divided speech); and his qualities of leadership
                    (including his fits of depression and melancholia). Perhaps the finest of  Strozier's chapters is not on 
                        Lincoln
                     at all but on Mary Todd Lincoln, a sensitive, moving, compassionate portrait that by
                    itself will amply reward the reader of this book.
            There is not much that is new in these chapters, although devotees of psychobiography will probably
                    disagree. The story, however, deserves retelling, and by combining a scrupulous search of the
                    historical materials (the author's balanced and judicious use of William H.
                    Herndon's biography is especially meritorious) with a fluent, engaging style, Strozier has
                    done so with insight and feeling. The unifying theme, as the title suggests, is 
                        Lincoln
                    's quest for union, a private quest that ultimately merged with a public one;
                    put another way, 
                        Lincoln
                    's "private concerns found reflection in the country as a
                    whole" (p. 233). It is a theme with which few can argue. Nothing has been said of
                    Strozier's Chapter 8, "The Group Self and the Crisis of the 1850s," in
                    which the author attempts to place the American people on the psychoanalyst's couch. In his
                    preface Strozier warns the reader of its tenative and problematic nature and suggests that it might
                    even be skipped. In view of this disclaimer it hardly seems fair to comment upon it.
            
               University of 
                     Illinois,
                                Urbana
                  -
                            Champaign
                        
                Robert W. Johannsen
         
         
            
               Theodore Dreiser: American Diaries, 1902–1926. Edited by Thomas P.
                    Riggio, James L. W. West III, and Neda M. Westlake. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Press, 1982. Pp. xi, 471. Illustrations, notes, appendix, index. $28.50.)
            Reading Dreiser's American Diaries is largely an exercise in frustration
                    for the reader who expects thoughtful, incisive, extensive comments on people, times, and the
                    author's own writings. The biographical scholar, however, who needs to know the daily
                    details of Dreiser's life, will get some satisfaction from the thousands of two-word or
                    one-line references to people met, places traveled to, restaurants visited, women slept with, and
                    work completed or in progress. The mass of atomistic facts and quotidian detail, impressive though
                    it is, rarely blossoms into insightful, articulate response that would reveal Dreiser's
                    personality.
            Two examples will suffice to define the problem. Since these diaries cover the years in which Dreiser
                    wrote An American Tragedy, one would expect interesting revelations about the
                    process of composition. A check of every index reference to  the
                        Tragedy, however, yields nothing but a disappointing collection of bare-bone
                    notations, none of which goes beyond "Working on An American Tragedy" (p. 350) or
                    "give her Chapter 17 of An American Tragedy to type… Finish chapter 18"
                    (p. 409). This procedure, incidentally, turned up one erroneous index reference to p. 453, which
                    turns out to be part of the list of emendations.
            The fifty-two entries under H. L. Mencken promise a bountiful harvest of information on the
                    relationship between these two major figures; but on the whole the pickings turn out to be rather
                    slim. The most interesting of the Mencken entries provides a mere glimpse of Dreiser's
                    attitude toward his friend: "Mencken is there with her sister and likes to have her stay
                    there nights when he is there, ‘for looks.’ The cautious
                    conventionalist!" (p. 169). As for the rest, Dreiser rarely goes much beyond the merest
                    mention of seeing Mencken or receiving a letter from him. In two instances, references to
                    "Mencken's book" (pp. 195, 205) remain unidentified by the editors, whose
                    glosses are otherwise informative, substantial, and clear.
            There are a few notable passages where Dreiser suddenly ceases to write in his usual truncated style.
                    These passages stand out both because they occur so rarely and because they immediately engage
                    one's interest and attention. For example, in his 1902–1903 
                        Philadelphia
                     diary Dreiser gives a moving description of being down to his last pennies, yet too
                    ashamed to enter a free public dispensary for medical treatment: 
                        I walked to and fro, thinking of what they would and what I would say and then finally I felt
                            as if I had better not try it. Accordingly I started toward the city but when I got as far
                            as the bridge that spans the Schuylkill at Walnut street, I recovered my courage and went
                            back. When I reached the sidewalk opposite however a negro was cleaning the windows. I felt
                            as if he would know what I was coming for and so I strolled by again… (p.
                        95).
                     The immediacy of this scene and Dreiser's focus on his emotions draw the
                    reader's interest far more than all the detailed chronological listings of daily events.
            In this sense, then, the Diaries is a book by scholars for scholars, rather than
                    for the general reader. It was put together by thorough and meticulous editors, who provide not only
                    an informative introduction and ample footnotes but also a sensible set of editorial principles,
                    helpful headnotes for each diary (there is, incidentally, a rather large gap without extant diaries
                    between 1903 and 1916), a mercifully short list of selected emendations, and a useful index
                    containing only a small number of detected errors (e.g., H. T. Coates & Co. appears in the
                         index as J. H. Coates & Co., and the entry for p.
                    99 was erroneously omitted).
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Christoph K. Lohmann
         
         
            
               The Old Country School: The Story of Rural Education in the Middle West. By
                    Wayne E. Fuller. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1982. Pp. ix, 302. Illustrations, sources, notes, index. $22.50.)
            In The Old Country School Wayne E. Fuller studies primary education in the
                    midwestern countryside during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The subject is a
                    promising one, and the author brings his considerable talents as a researcher and writer to his
                    exploration of it. Unfortunately, the merits of the book are insufficient to overcome its
                    simplistic, one-dimensional quality.
            Fuller's affection for the one-room schools of the midwestern past shines through on every
                    page. His sensitive understanding of the struggles of farmers, teachers, boards of education, and
                    county superintendents to create and maintain an educational system is remarkable. And the picture
                    he draws of the nature of the schools, their pupils, teachers, materials, and curricula is
                    outstanding. In Fuller's hands the one-room school becomes all of the things it was
                    supposed to be—a key community adhesive, a showcase for democracy, and a quality
                    educational institution.
            Fuller's championship of the one-room school would be admirable if it did not lead him into
                    a narrow and ultimately unsatisfactory analysis. Fuller is so determined to uphold the worth of the
                    little rural schools that he skirts questions about their quality by lapsing into special pleading
                    or exuding a haze of nostalgia. Too often he reaches conclusions which are unjustified by the
                    evidence, as is the case when he suggests that Indiana's relatively high illiteracy rate in
                    the late nineteenth century was attributable mainly to the fact that the township—rather
                    than the rural district—was the main unit of school governance. When Fuller discusses the
                    challenges posed by professional educators to the tiny districts and their one-room schools, his
                    treatment assumes the character of a morality play. The forces of good are represented by the
                    embattled farmers struggling to preserve their local jewels of democracy, and the forces of evil are
                    embodied in the professional educators whose motivation is explained primarily as a quest for power.
                    Recent scholarship regarding rural education and its  reform
                    indicates how simplistic this explanation is, but Fuller shows little inclination to consider
                    seriously evidence which might lead him to modify his views.
            
               The Old Country School addresses an intriguing subject, and it will be interesting
                    to readers who want to know how one-room schools in the Midwest operated or to nostalgics who find
                    those institutions romantic. Regrettably, historians will find little here which contributes to
                    their knowledge of rural education.
            
               
                  
                            North Dakota
                         State University, Fargo David B. Danbom
         
         
            
               The Healthiest City: Milwaukee and the Politics of Health Reform. By Judith
                    Walzer Leavitt. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1982. Pp. xvii, 294. Illustrations, notes, tables, figures, essay on
                    sources, index. $22.50.)
            
               The Healthiest City pretends to be interdisciplinary history. Actually, it is a
                    curious juxtaposition of sociology and political science using the past as its locus. The first
                    several chapters focus on the demographics of Milwaukee during the late nineteenth and early
                    twentieth centuries. They offer all the fad and fashion of what practitioners call the new social
                    history. Statistics abound in this section, as do semi-jargonistic terms. Unfortunately, the numbers
                    and terms serve mainly to mask unexamined and unexplained sociological constructs and concepts. Such
                    choice phraseology as "lifestyle," "economically and politically
                    heterogeneous group," and "rapidly adapted to life in
                    Milwaukee"—each of which carries its own peculiar type of intellectual
                    baggage—litters the book with only the slightest indication of its utility, significance,
                    or even meaning. This sociological tract ends with two conclusions that ought to surprise few:
                    population density predicted mortality from many diseases, and curative medicine during the period
                    was less important (successful?) than preventive medicine.
            The political science portion tends to redeem the work. Leavitt does a rather thorough job of
                    outlining the conflicts, points of contention, and areas of agreement that comprised in Milwaukee
                    the politics of public health measures and legislation. Devoting specific chapters to smallpox,
                    garbage, and milk, and labelling each a test case, the author sets out the political tensions in a
                    turn-of-the-century American city. These chapters provide a detailed summary of the various disputes
                    and coalitions that both rocked and calmed Milwaukee.
            
            Leavitt goes a step further, however. She not only asserts that municipal health activities
                    constituted a swapping of cultural identity for something she connotes as social control; she also
                    uses her test cases to develop a model of political decision-making in the public health field.
                    Clearly an attempt to unite the book's sociological and political science sections, the
                    model's inclusion seems a mistake. It exposes a basic flaw in the book's raison d'etre. Leavitt has argued both for the generalizability of the
                    Milwaukee situation as well as for its uniqueness on socioeconomic and cultural grounds. This
                    apparent contradiction produces a sense of uneasiness, for it does not seem possible to have it both
                    ways. As a consequence, questions emerge about the model's applicability and significance
                    and persist about the book's contribution to the literature of Progressive Era reform.
            
               
                  
                            Iowa
                         State University, Ames Alan I Marcus
         
         
            
               Steamboats on the Green and the Colorful Men Who Operated Them. By Agnes S.
                    Harralson. (
                        Berea
                    , Ky.: Kentucke Imprints, 1981. Pp. xi, 343. Illustrations, maps, sources, index.
                    $12.95.)
            Although not viewed as one of the great rivers of America, the Green River has
                    been significant in the history of western 
                        Kentucky
                    . This river, which flows into the Ohio River just upstream from 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, has served as the channel of trade between the timber and coal country of 
                        Kentucky
                     and the industrial Ohio Valley. Agnes S. Harralson has lived all
                    of her life in the Green River area. This book is a collection of memories,
                    some from before 1900, and research on the river area that she obviously loves very much. It is
                    written in the style not of a trained historian but of one who wants to share with others a lifelong
                    interest.
            The book focuses primarily on the steamboats that at one time traveled the river. The author not only
                    provides the reader with physical descriptions of specific boats but also introduces him to the
                    operators and owners of the boats. The color of the showboats, the economics of the packet boats,
                    and the drama of shipwrecks are all treated in this book. But the book is not limited to steamboats.
                    The author includes sidelights and folklore of the Green River area. Among the
                    sidelights are sections on the unsuccessful attempt of a colony of Scottish coal and iron workers to
                    build an iron works at  Airdire, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and on activities in the valley during the Civil War.
            Harralson's work is amply illustrated with pictures of the steamboats and of areas along the
                        Green River. The reader will find some interesting primary source material,
                    such as letters and interviews. One example is a letter written from 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, in 1854 (pp. 116–18), which provides a description of early 
                        Evansville
                     and its 
                        German
                     residents. This is but one example of information provided in the book about cities and
                    citizens of southern Indiana. The author strays from the subject at some points, becomes repetitious
                    at others, and uses nontraditional documentation methods throughout. However, the book does impress
                    upon the reader the importance of the river to the development of the region and does convey the
                    excitement of the steamboat era.
            
               
                  
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana William E. Bartelt
         
         
            
               Carl Schurz: A Biography. By Hans L. Trefousse. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 1982. Pp. viii, 386. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.50.)
            Hans L. Trefousse, one of the most esteemed scholars working in the Civil War and Reconstruction
                    period—this is his seventh major book on the subject—has turned his attention
                    to "Mr. German-American," Carl Schurz (1829–1906). Schurz was born in
                    the 
                        Rhineland
                    ; took part in the 1848 democratic uprising while at the University of Bonn; engineered
                    the dramatic escape of his professor, Gottfried Kinkel, from the Spandau prison; fled to exile in
                            
                  France, Switzerland
               , and Great Britain; and emigrated to the 
                        United States
                     in 1852. The existence of slavery in his adopted land and the 1854 passage of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act motivated him to make common cause with the newly organized Republican party, of
                    which he soon became a prominent member (and a quondam defector). At his death Schurz was remembered
                    in Europe and the 
                        United States
                     as a tireless advocate of the abolition of slavery, civil service reform, and tariff
                    reduction and an opponent of American expansionism in the Caribbean and Pacific. In addition, he was
                    certainly the most prestigious leader of both the ill-fated Liberal Republican movement of 1872 and
                    the successful Mugwump support for Grover Cleveland in the 1884 presidential race.
            Schurz's limitless energy, oratorical gifts, and journalistic talents, along with the
                    Republicans' need to win over large  numbers of 
                        German
                    -American voters, involved him in every presidential election from 1856 to 1900. Indeed,
                    one of the main thrusts of this elegantly concise biography is the attention it gives to the ethnic
                    factor in nineteenth-century politics. Schurz's important speeches for national party
                    candidates Abraham Lincoln and Rutherford B. Hayes were reason enough to reward him with federal
                    office, but Trefousse makes the persuasive case that in every instance of political
                    favor—including his service as minister to 
                        Spain
                    , major general in the Union army, 
                        United States
                     senator from 
                        Missouri
                    , secretary of the interior under Hayes—it was Schurz's perceived
                    leadership among 
                        German
                    -Americans that was decisive in getting him these governmental rewards.
            Some aspects of Schurz's life are relevant to Indiana. Before eventually settling in
                            
                  Watertown, Wisconsin
               , in 1854, he considered 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Two thousand Germans lived in one section of the city, and he considered it a positive
                    sign that "between noon and one o'clock it was possible to see six trains leaving
                    Union Station in different directions" (p. 51). During the week of March 7–14,
                    1860, Schurz lectured in 
                  Terre Haute, Evansville, South Bend,
                            La Porte, Indianapolis
               , and 
                        Richmond
                    , complaining that "the trains were bad, the food worse" (p. 83).
                    Trefousse's masterly study profited from, inter alia, the extensive
                    collection of Schurz papers in the possession of Indiana University Professor Arthur R. Hogue of 
                        Bloomington
                    . In fact, Mrs. Hogue is a great-granddaughter of Schurz's sister, Antonia.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Irving Katz
         
         
            
               Battleground: The Autobiography of Margaret A. Haley. Edited by Robert L. Reid. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1982. Pp. xxxv, 298. Illustrations, notes, appendixes, index.
                    $22.95.)
            
               Battleground is the autobiography of Margaret A. Haley (1861–1939), a
                    founder and leader of the 
                        Chicago
                     Teachers' Federation. Haley, who begins her autobiography with "I
                    never wanted to fight" (p. 3), concludes that she told her life story "with as
                    little of my own personality as is humanly possible" (p. 270). While she does not probe her
                    own psyche in introspective reminiscences, Haley's career reveals the character of a
                    combative challenger who eagerly fought entrenched financial, business, political, and educational
                    interests.
            When the smoke of battle cleared, Haley's major efforts 
                    were directed to: (1) uniting classroom teachers in a single organization that would not only
                    improve their working conditions but also improve 
                        Chicago
                    's public schools; (2) forcing an equitable and realistic assessment of
                    corporate property that would generate revenue adequate to finance 
                        Chicago
                    's schools and teachers. Her drive to organize teachers along union lines
                    brought her into conflict with the educational establishment not only of 
                        Chicago
                     but of the nation. The struggle to force reassessment of corporate property brought her
                    into conflict with 
                        Chicago
                    's vested financial and political interests.
            During her life of struggle, Haley had few heroes or heroines. She was loyally devoted to the 
                        Chicago
                     Teachers' Federation President, Catherine Goggin, and held Ella Flagg Young, 
                        Chicago
                     School Superintendent from 1910 to 1915, in deep esteem. Others, particularly those who
                    compromised, she unmercifully cut down. She scornfully rejected Jane Addams as "gentle
                    Jane," an ineffective member of the 
                        Chicago
                     Board of Education who was too weak to stand up for principle. Leading educators such
                    as William Rainey Harper, William Torrey Harris, Nicholas Murray Butler, and many of 
                        Chicago
                    's school superintendents were attacked for opposing teacher organization.
            Although involved continually in complex local and state issues of tax reform and property
                    reassessment, Haley was not parochial in outlook. She was able to place the 
                        Chicago
                     educational situation in the larger national scene. Haley's attitude and
                    temperament reflected the political and educational progressivism current in the twentieth
                    century's first three decades.
            Robert L. Reid demonstrates editorial competence. His long and balanced introduction creates an
                    interpretive biographical framework for Haley's autobiography. His explanatory footnotes
                    identify the persons and issues mentioned in Haley's narrative. Despite Reid's
                    good scholarship and editing, Haley's commentary on her life is unsatisfactory as
                    autobiography. The total portrait that should appear is missing and obscured by the detailed
                    complexities of legal maneuvers, legislative lobbying, and political stratagems. A well-done
                    biography that provides a more finished portrait of Haley's life, career, and contributions
                    is still needed.
            
               Loyola University of 
                            Chicago
                        
                Gerald L. Gutek
         
         
         
            
               Blacks in 
                     Topeka, Kansas
                  , 1865–1915: A Social
                        History. By Thomas C. Cox. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1982. Pp. x, 236. Notes, appendix, tables, maps, bibliography,
                    index. $27.50.)
            There is a growing body of literature on the late-nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century experience
                    of blacks in such large cities as 
                  New York,
                            Chicago, Detroit,
                            Cleveland, Boston
               , and 
                        New Orleans
                    , but much needs to be done on Afro-Americans in smaller urban places like 
                        Topeka
                    . Thomas C. Cox has attempted to meet that challenge in his study, the first monograph
                    of its kind.
            The author contends that despite social and economic differences the blacks of 
                        Topeka
                     were not separated "into competing interest groups on matters related to race
                    advancement." An active black press "facilitated communication and a rich exchange
                    of ideas within the community and apprised Negroes in the city of the condition of the race in other
                    locales." The cumulative effect of "institutional, social, economic, and political
                    development… as well as media for internal and external communication, gave the community
                    effective means of exercising some control over its own destiny" (p. 197). Hence the black
                    experience in 
                        Kansas
                    's capital city "was not a case study in urban pathology."
                    Black Topekans "could depend on institutions and ideas, forged over the previous years, to
                    chart their course into an uncertain future" (p. 198). 
                        Topeka
                     blacks were relatively better off than blacks in many other communities because they
                    were "less proscribed by caste in their dealings with whites" (p. 164) and were
                    more politically conscious, the result of "a high literacy rate, an informed press, and a
                    zest for political action" (p. 185).
            Although Cox is conversant with recent writings on blacks in late-nineteenth-century America and has
                    done extensive reading in relevant state and local primary sources, he is less successful in
                    convincing the reader of the validity of his thesis. The subtitle, "A Social
                    History," is misleading, for the author seems to focus on the thoughts and deeds of 
                        Topeka
                    's black leadership, not the black community as a whole. For example, little is
                    done with the mass of statistical material on population, occupation, and family organization
                    provided in the appendix—and for some inexplicable reason data are not provided beyond
                    1895. One would think that the 1900 federal population schedules, aggregate census reports of 1900
                    and 1910, federal Negro population data of 1915, and 
                        Topeka city
                     directories could have been used here. Especially limited is  Cox's treatment of what Mary Berry and John Blassingame, in a
                    recent study of black America, term the key components of black society—the family and
                    the church. Surprisingly little is written about the origins and functions of black churches (or,
                    for that matter, about the black clergy of 
                        Topeka
                    ). Family authority and organization are virtually ignored. Patterns of occupational and
                    residential mobility among black Topekans, whether studied in the aggregate or as individuals, are
                    not seriously explored. The decline of 
                        Topeka
                    's black population (from a high of 5,024 in 1890 to 3,874 in 1915) is not
                    systematically examined.
            Particularly surprising, given the author's heavy reliance on black 
                        Topeka
                     newspapers for news and editorial opinion and his assertion that its thirteen
                    newspapers reflected and enhanced the literacy of black Topekans, is the scant attention to the
                    histories of these newspapers. (Only three lasted more than two years, and only one, the Plaindealer, lasted as long as twenty-two years.) How were those papers founded?
                    What sort of circulation and financial support did they have? How and why did they cease
                    publication?
            The author, moreover, does not examine in depth the interrelationship of black and white Topekans.
                    For example, the reader may find questionable the glib assertion that those white Topekans who
                    assisted blacks (e.g., pp. 56, 156) actually did so for purposes of social control. The relatively
                    free access which blacks had to the white community of 
                        Topeka
                     also makes questionable the frequent use of the concept of caste, which connotes
                    rigidity in social relations. Accordingly, the argument for a unified and resilient black
                    community—even despite divisions of opinion over the advice of Booker T. Washington on
                    dealing with second-class status—is unconvincing. Much more seems to have been happening
                    in 
                        Topeka
                     between 1865 and 1915 than is discussed in this book.
            
               Indiana State University 
                            Evansville
                        
                Darrel E. Bigham
         
         
            
               Historical Atlas of 
                            Missouri
                        . By Milton D. Rafferty. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1982. Pp. xxv, 113. Maps, references, index. Clothbound, $19.95;
                    paperbound, $9.95.)
            This atlas has been prepared to assist teachers and students engaged in the study of history and
                    geography. The various kinds of information gleaned from the maps and accompanying texts also will
                    interest general readers and others,  including economists and
                    sociologists. The volume contains a wealth of material.
            At first glance this is an impressive work. The maps fall into ten categories: location; physical
                    base; discovery and settlement; population; government; politics and social characteristics;
                    transportation and communication; economic activities, including mining, agriculture, manufacturing,
                    and commerce; and towns and cities. All told, 113 maps with brief texts present a myriad of facts.
                    Both the maps and texts, however, must be used carefully as some of the sources consulted are
                    outdated and some of the information is either incorrect or questionable.
            Works of this tremendous scope frequently contain some flaws, and this volume is no exception. For
                    the uninformed a definition of "cuestaform" and "fragipan" would
                    have been helpful. Maps, in most instances easily understandable, on occasion include communities
                    that are not mentioned in the accompanying commentaries. People who reside in the county seats of
                            
                  Marion, Randolph
               , and 
                        Franklin
                     will be surprised that the author accords that governmental designation to other
                    communities. A similar surprise awaits the residents of Rich Fountain, Loose Creek, Luystown (not
                    Lustown, an example of numerous misspellings), and Frankenstein when they discover they live in Cole
                    County. Historians will question a number of assertions: among them, that 
                        St. Louis
                     may have been the first white settlement in 
                        Missouri
                    ; that Daniel Boone actually worked in the salt licks in the Boonslick Country; and that 
                        Kaskaskia
                     was the first white settlement on the 
                        Illinois
                     side of the Mississippi River. While the atlas could have been
                    improved through the use of more up-to-date sources and more thorough proofreading, it still remains
                    a valuable and informative reference work.
            
               The State Historical Society of 
                     Missouri, Columbia
                  
                James W.
                    Goodrich
         
         
            
               The Papers of Ulysses S. Grant. Volume IX, July
                        7–December 31, 1863; Volume X, January 1–May 31,
                    1864. Edited by John Y. Simon. (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1982. Pp. xxiv, 700; xxv, 618. Illustrations, notes, maps, indexes.
                    $40.00 per volume.)
            The latest two volumes of Grant's papers cover a critical period of his military career. The
                    aftermath of Vicksburg's capture, the 
                        Chattanooga
                     campaign, Grant's accession to high 
                    command, and the first month of his contest with Lee are among the important subjects.
            Simon continues to handle his material with admirable skill. From autograph dealers'
                    catalogs to obscure biographies of minor generals, he has collected Grant's writings,
                    sometimes finding only excerpts of documents. He identifies all copies of those documents and lists
                    their locations. Material from the Official Records is included, and discrepancies
                    between the published and unpublished versions are noted. Simon uses extensive footnotes to print
                    endorsements by Grant that do not fit well into the text of the Papers. He also
                    uses the notes to quote, oftentimes very extensively, from documents containing information
                    pertinent to textual material. Very few personal letters appear in these volumes, but official
                    papers sometimes contain personal information. Most of the documents are taken from National
                    Archives files. A "Calendar" at the end of each volume contains more Grant
                    endorsements and letters to the general.
            After fifteen years and ten volumes, Simon has taken Grant less than halfway through his public
                    career. His exhaustive annotation is the cause. He adds almost no editorial commentary, but the
                    documentary notes at least double the space devoted to the text. At first glance, one wonders if
                    this is necessary. Those doubts are dispelled on close examination. What keeps the Papers from being a pedantic exercise is the flow of documentary information on the
                    problems Grant faced and the decisions he had to make. Simon has provided scholars with a command
                    study, or at least the material for such a study, that will continue to be one of the most important
                    primary sources for Civil War military historians for a long time to come.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        
                Earl J. Hess
         
         
            
               Fertility in 
                            Massachusetts
                         from the Revolution to the Civil War. By Maris A. Vinovskis. (
                        New York
                    : Academic Press, 1981. Pp. xii, 253. Notes, figures, map, tables, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. $27.50.)
            Having babies is one aspect of history about which the "how" is known, but not the
                    "why." The basic problem is why the fertility of American families fell so
                    drastically in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Maris A. Vinovskis casts his inquiry
                    far more broadly than his narrow title suggests. He  examines
                    the availability of farmland, the shortage of men, the growth of towns, the rise of industry, the
                    spread of education, and even the psychological dynamics of individual modernization. Only the last
                    two factors appear important in his sophisticated statistical analysis. Vinovskis relies largely
                    upon aggregate census data for the state as a whole and for its towns. Although he refers to the
                    numerous family reconstitution studies that have been undertaken for colonial 
                        New England
                    , he tends to distrust them on methodological grounds. In other articles he has used
                    samples of individual families taken from the manuscript census files, but he makes little use of
                    them here. As a consequence, he must infer individual behavior from aggregate data—always
                    a difficult procedure, and in this case one that leads to inconclusive results. While the emphasis
                    is on 
                        Massachusetts
                    , Vinovskis is always ready to make comparisons with the rest of the 
                        United States
                    , with Europe, and, with an eye to policy, with developing countries that today are
                    trying to reduce their birth rates.
            Indiana experienced much the same pattern of fertility decline as 
                        Massachusetts
                    , though with a lag of several decades. In 1810 the Indiana frontier had the highest
                    fertility in the country, perhaps the highest in the world. By 1890 the state had converged to the
                    general pattern of northern states. The state was still largely rural, nonindustrial, and
                    incompletely "modern" in the values and outlook of its people. An adequate social
                    history of the people of the state will have to explain this pattern and its consequences for family
                    stability, outward and inward migration, and social mobility. The work of Vinovskis on 
                        Massachusetts
                    , of John Modell on Indiana, of Richard Easterlin on farming areas generally, and of Don
                    Leet on 
                        Ohio
                    , has not solved the problem. However, these individuals have articulated the
                    theoretical and conceptual issues and, especially in this book, clearly explained the difficulties
                    and opportunities involved in working with census data, demographic models, and the statistical
                    techniques that must be used.
            
               University of 
                     Illinois,
                                Chicago
                  
                Richard Jensen
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
