
      ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 104, Issue 2, pages 121-211. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:104+issue:2+year:2008&browseMode=source
    
      ----FULL TEXT----
        
          
               
               
               
               
               
               
          
          
               
               
                    The Home of Ben-Hur: Lew Wallace's Study
                    CINNAMON CATLIN-LEGUTKO
                    Nestled in the heart of 
                              Crawfordsville
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , is a monument to one of the state's most original
                         and prized sons, General Lew Wallace. A statue of Wallace stands next to
                         his ambitious dream: a personal study that he built near his home and
                         designed as a "pleasure-house for [his] soul." The
                         building remains today as a museum that commemorates his life and legacy
                         and teaches us about potential fulfilled and dreams achieved. To explore
                         and honor his legacy, the General Lew Wallace Study and Museum partnered
                         with Wabash College in November 2005 to present the Lew Wallace Symposium.
                         Made possible through a matching grant from the Indiana Humanities Council
                         in cooperation with the National Endowment for the Humanities, this
                         day-long event featured Wallace scholars from around the nation who
                         presented their latest research on a variety of topics. Three of those
                         presentations are featured in this special Lew Wallace issue of the IMH.1
                    
                         Cinnamon Catlin-Legutko holds an MA from the University of Arkansas
                              at Fayetteville. She is the director of the General Lew Wallace Study
                              and Museum and serves as chair of the Small Museums Committee for the
                              American Association of State and Local History. She is also a member
                              of the Association of Midwest Museums, the American Association of
                              Museums, and Heritage Preservation.
                         1Other authors and topics included: Roger C.
                              Adams and his passion for collecting editions of Ben-Hur; M. Teresa Baer's work on the Susan
                              Wallace papers and what her research reveals about this remarkable
                              Victorian woman; Gail Stephens's analysis of Wallace and the
                              battle of Shiloh; Gloria Swift and her investigation of Wallace at the
                              battle of Monocacy; and Shaun Chandler Lighty's examination
                              of Wallace's identity in nineteenth-century 
                                   America
                              .
                         INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (June 2008) C 2008, Trustees of
                              Indiana University.
                    
                    
                    At an early age, Lew Wallace knew he was an independent learner, fighting
                         classroom rules and escaping to adventures in the nearby woods at first
                         chance. By age 16, he abandoned formal education for a series of positions,
                         including attorney, copy clerk, and soldier. A brief enlistment with the
                         11th Indiana Infantry in the Mexican War shaped Wallace's passion
                         for military life. The first article in this issue, "A Struggle
                         for Respect: Lew Wallace's Relationships with Ulysses S. Grant and
                         William Tecumseh Sherman after Shiloh," touches this theme.
                         William M. Ferraro considers Wallace's controversial actions
                         during the Civil War battle of Shiloh, his relationships with Grant and
                         Sherman during and after the war, and his lengthy struggle to reestablish
                         himself in the eyes of these fellow generals. With the conclusion of the
                         war, Wallace served as a military judge during the 1865 Lincoln conspiracy
                         trial and as president of the military court that convicted Henry Wirz,
                         commandant of Andersonville Prison. With these final military duties
                         fulfilled, Wallace returned to his family and a law practice in 
                              Crawfordsville
                         , awaiting the next great role. It would be as author. He had
                         been a writer since before the war, working on a novel about the Spanish
                         conquest of the Aztec Empire. The book was finally published in 1873 as The Fair God, Or, The Last of the 'Tzins: A Tale of
                              the Conquest of 
                                   Mexico
                               and that same year he began to write Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ. On the verdant acreage
                         surrounding his 
                              Crawfordsville
                          home, Wallace often sat in a comfortable chair under his
                         favorite beech tree and wrote his manuscript on a lapboard. The book was
                         finished in New Mexico Territory, where Wallace accepted appointment as
                         territorial governor in 1878. Each night Wallace worked on Ben-Hur by candlelight, and his wife Susan fretted that the lit
                         windows of the governor's palace in lawless 
                              Santa
                                   Fe
                          might invite assassination attempts.
                    Ben-Hur was published to great acclaim in 1880, launching a
                         phenomenon that Wallace could never have imagined. In the second article of
                         this issue, "The Charioteer and the Christ: Ben-Hur in 
                              America
                          from the Gilded Age to the Culture Wars," Howard
                         Miller traces the impact of Wallace's tale on American culture by
                         illustrating the transformation of the charioteer and Christ figures within
                         the novel's numerous stage and screen adaptations. Wallace
                         completed five other novels during his lifetime, but none had the lasting
                         cultural impact of Ben-Hur.
                    Just after the publication of the book, Wallace accepted appointment as
                         minister to 
                              Turkey
                         . He spent four years in the Middle East, and 
                         
                              Lew Wallaces study, 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   , 2007 Completed in 1898 as "a
                                   pleasure-house for the soul," the study now serves as a
                                   museum of Wallaces life and legacy. Courtesy General Lew
                                   Wallace Study and Museum, 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   
                          returned home again to 
                              Crawfordsville
                         , where he began writing his third historic novel, The Prince of 
                                   India
                               (1895), which tells the story of a Jew during the
                         fall of 
                              Constantinople
                          in 1453.
                    In the next decade, Wallace began an ambitious building project on his
                         property. Built over the course of three years, his large, free-standing
                         study was a repository of souvenirs and memories from his life as a
                         soldier, statesman, author, musician, and inventor. By the time the study
                         was finished in 1898, the largest balance of Wallace's life was
                         behind him - perhaps haunting him - as he relished this "place for
                         [his] old age to rest in and grow
                         reminiscent, fighting the battles of youth over again."2
                    Wallace's eclectic study was the subject of news features across the
                         country, and visitors traveled to see the magnificent "home of Ben-Hur." When the general died in 1905, his
                         family opened the study's doors as a museum to share it with
                         admirers. Today, the study is part of a larger compound that includes his
                         carriage house and gardens and is known as the General Lew Wallace Study
                         and Museum. Owned by the city of 
                              Crawfordsville
                          and governed by the Lew Wallace Study Preservation Society, a
                         501(c)3 organization dedicated to the preservation of the study, the museum
                         provides a gathering place for scholars and fans of Lew Wallace and his
                         works.
                    In 2005, the museum marked not only the centennial of its opening, but the
                         125th anniversary of the publication of Ben-Hur. For two
                         weeks that summer, the museum offered special programming and events,
                         including an open house, free museum admission, the Lew Wallace Music
                         Festival, and the Lew Wallace Youth Academy. The spirit of that celebration
                         lives on in the Youth Academy, now held each summer as a week-long history
                         day camp focused on Wallace's life lessons: leadership, character,
                         and life-long learning.
                    I invite you to visit the General Lew Wallace Study and Museum and witness
                         for yourself Wallace's uniquely American story represented through
                         the museum's historic buildings and authentic collection.
                    
                         2Lew Wallace to Susan Wallace, December 4, 1879,
                              in Lew Wallace, An Autobiography (2 vols., 
                                   New
                                        York
                              , 1969), 2: 926.
                    
               
               
               
                    A Struggle for Respect Lew Wallace's Relationships with Ulysses
                         S. Grant and William Tecumseh Sherman After Shiloh
                    WILLIAM M. FERRARO
                    Lew Wallace, born on April 10, 1827, in 
                              Brookville
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , aspired to greatness. Given a better than average start
                         socially, politically, and economically, Wallace went on to achieve fame as
                         a soldier, government official, and author before his death in 1905. Of the
                         many relationships with other prominent Americans that he enjoyed over this
                         long and active life, none proved more complex or troubling than those
                         Wallace maintained with two of the best-known public figures of the
                         nineteenth century: Ulysses S. Grant and William Tecumseh Sherman. The
                         purpose of this article is to examine why Wallace continued to turn to
                         these men for advice and assistance in the weeks and years after April
                              
                              William M. Ferraro is an assistant professor and assistant
                                   editor with the Papers of George Washington at the University of
                                   Virginia. He has a long-standing interest in the lives and
                                   relationships of John and William Tecumseh Sherman, and his
                                   current book project studies the extended Sherman family during
                                   the Civil War. He wishes to thank the Indiana
                                        Magazine of History's anonymous reviewer and
                                   staff members Eric Sandweiss and Cynthia Gwynne Yaudes for
                                   helping to focus and strengthen this article. He also thanks the
                                   Interlibrary Loan Department of the Alderman Library at the
                                   University of Virginia for facilitating the procurement of the
                                   Lew Wallace papers on microfilm, and Cinnamon Catlin-Legutko for
                                   inviting him to participate in the 2005 Lew Wallace
                                   Symposium.
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (June 2008) C 2008, Trustees of
                                   Indiana University.
                         
                         6, 1862: the day when
                         Wallace's failure to move his division in a timely fashion had
                         imperiled the Union Army at the battle of Shiloh.1
                    Wallace's interactions with Grant and Sherman reveal both his
                         capacity to deal with strong personalities and his staunch determination to
                         fulfill his life's aims and ambitions. Unusually sensitive,
                         yearning to earn a place on the same plane as his more accomplished
                         contemporaries, Wallace could not resign himself to second-rank status; nor
                         could he accept that his talents and exertions may have been inferior to
                         those of such better-known peers. This persistence proved a mixed blessing
                         in Wallace's life. While it drove him to attain the military,
                         political, and literary fame to which he had aspired, it also left him
                         anxious and unable to enjoy the satisfaction merited by his many
                         achievements. Wallace's troubled interaction with the Union
                         Army's greatest generals reflects a struggle for respect never
                         fully won in the course of a long and illustrious life.
                    Brigadier General Lew Wallace first met Ulysses S. Grant at 
                              Paducah
                         , 
                              Kentucky
                         , in late October 1861. Grant, then a more senior brigadier
                         general than the recently promoted Wallace, had come to 
                              Paducah
                          from his headquarters at 
                              Cairo
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         , to discuss an attack against a Confederate position in
                         southeastern 
                              Missouri
                          with Wallace's superior, Brigadier General Charles E
                         Smith. Wallace entertained Smith, Grant, and Grant's adjutant John
                         A. Rawlins at his quarters and enjoyed the camaraderie of his guests far
                         into the night.2 Unfortunately, a false story that the
                         gathering had been a drunken debauch spread among the ranks. Wallace
                         quickly squelched the rumors, and the incident passed with no evidence that
                         Grant had taken any offense. Still, Wallace believed that the matter had
                         made Grant's staff officers suspicious of him.3
                    
                    
                         1See Irving McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace: The Life of General Lew
                                   Wallace (
                                   Berkeley
                              , 
                                   
                                        Calif.
                              , 1947) and Robert E. and Katharine M. Morsberger, Lew Wallace: Militant Romantic (
                                   New
                                        York
                              , 1980). The Morsbergers, in particular, suggest that the
                              battle of Shiloh broke Wallaces relationship with Grant. Harold Lew
                              Wallace, "Lew Wallace's March to Shiloh
                              Revisited," Indiana Magazine of History, 59
                              (March 1963), 19-30, focuses on whether Lew Wallace followed orders on
                              the first day of Shiloh. (Harold Wallace is not a relative of his
                              subject.)
                         2Wallace later recalled Grant's short
                              beard with a "natural reddish tinge," his uniform
                              coat "the worse for tarnished brass buttons," and
                              the strong impression "that there was nothing about him
                              suggestive of greatness, nothing heroic." Lew Wallace, Lew Wallace: An Autobiography (2 vols., 
                                   New
                                        York
                              , 1906), 1: 352.
                         3Ibid., 351-53, 355-56.
                    
                    
                    The Union victory at Fort Donelson in February 1862 should have righted all
                         wrongs between Grant and Wallace. Left behind to guard earlier conquests,
                         Forts Heiman and Henry, Wallace pushed his troops to Fort Donelson after
                         the battle had begun more rapidly than anticipated. Grant then gave Wallace
                         command of a newly formed division and assigned him to the center of the
                         line. Wallace distinctly remembered that Grant's face
                         "flushed slightly" and that he "crushed the
                         papers in his hand" when he learned that control of a critical
                         road on the Union right had been lost. Regaining full composure, Grant said
                         in "his ordinary quiet voice" to Wallace and another
                         general: "Gentlemen, the position on the right must be
                         retaken." Wallace and his soldiers valiantly recaptured the road
                         and drove the enemy back into their fortifications. But he also disobeyed
                         Grant's order to withdraw and await reinforcements because he did
                         not think the commander comprehended the gravity of the situation. Grant
                         later approved Wallace's decision. The general "intends
                         to give you a chance to be shot in every important move," reported
                         Grant's staff officer William S. Hillyer to Wallace after the
                         Confederates' surrender on February 16. Hillyer concluded his
                         short note: "I speak advisedly- God bless you -
                         you did save the day on the right."4
                         Grant's official report on the battle commended Wallace and the
                         other division commanders for being "with their commands in the
                         midst of danger" and "always ready to execute all orders
                         no matter what the exposure to themselvs."5
                    The aftermath of the Fort Donelson victory, however, dismayed Wallace.
                         Members of Grant's staff urged Wallace to revise his report to
                         mention their heroics during the battle. Eager to please these officers,
                         Wallace interviewed his subordinates to corroborate the details of the
                         staff's deeds. None could. Wallace politely told the staff
                         officers that he must leave his report unchanged, privately fearing that
                         principled action would provoke prejudice that could do future harm to his
                         reputation.
                    The first clear evidence of strain in Wallace's relationship with
                         Grant, however, awaited the battle of Shiloh a month-and-a-half later.
                              
                              4Lew Wallace, "The Capture of Fort
                                   Donelson," in From Sumter to Shiloh:
                                        Battles and Leaders of the Civil War, ed. Roy E Nichols (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1956), 422; William S. Hillyer to Lew Wallace,
                                   February 16, 1862, microfilm, reel 1, Lew Wallace Collection
                                   (Indiana Historical Society, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                   ). See also James A. Treichel, "Lew Wallace
                                   at Fort Donelson," Indiana Magazine of
                                        History, 59 (March 1963), 3-18.
                              5John Y. Simon, ed., The Papers
                                        of Ulysses S. Grant (28 vols. to date, 
                                        Carbondale
                                   , 
                                        Ill.
                                   , 1967-), 4: 225.
                         
                         
                         
                              Major General Lew Wallace, 1862 Wallace
                                   commanded the Third Division of the Army of the Tennessee at the
                                   battle of Shiloh on April 6, 1862. His controversial decisions on
                                   that day would forever color his relationships with Ulysses S.
                                   Grant and William Tecumseh Sherman. Courtesy Library of
                                   Congress, Manuscript Division
                          Wallace, now major general, was commanding his division at 
                              Crump's Landing
                          on the Tennessee River as the Union Army concentrated for an
                         assault on 
                              Corinth
                         , 
                              Mississippi
                         , a critical railroad junction. His scouts monitored the roads
                         and bridges linking their outlying division to the main encampment about
                         five miles upriver at 
                              Pittsburg Landing
                         . On April 4, the scouts reported that the Confederates had
                         vacated 
                              Corinth
                          to attack 
                              Pittsburg Landing
                         . Wallace relayed this report to Grant,  headquartered farther downriver at 
                              Savannah
                         , 
                              Tennessee
                         , but the note evidently failed to reach his hands.6
                    Hearing distant sounds of battle very early on the morning of Sunday, April
                         6, Wallace prepared his division to move toward 
                              Pittsburg Landing
                         . That same morning, Grant steamed upriver to
                         Wallace's location and told him to be ready to march in any
                         direction, pending further orders. Grant's commands disappointed
                         Wallace, who wanted to commence an immediate march toward the front lines,
                         but they were soundly reasoned. Grant held Wallace at 
                              Crump's Landing
                          because he did not yet know whether the main attack would fall
                         upon his large force at 
                              Pittsburg Landing
                          or on Wallace's division. Grant soon learned that the
                         target was 
                              Pittsburg Landing
                         , and he sent his assistant quartermaster, Captain Algernon S.
                         Baxter, to Wallace with orders that he bring his division to the Union
                         right with dispatch.7
                    From here, the story becomes hopelessly muddled. Principal actors in the
                         subsequent events disagree about times, the content of verbal orders,
                         individual demeanors, and motives. No matter how one weighs the
                         undocumented recollections and virulent recriminations, the central problem
                         remains that Wallace did not reach the Union Army at 
                              Pittsburg Landing
                          until after nightfall on April 6.8
                    Despite the confusion, Wallace posted his division to the right of the new
                         Union line by day's end. Told by Grant early on April 7 to move
                         west against the enemy, they did so, and fought in the day-long offensive
                         that routed the Confederates. Despite his role in the victory, Wallace
                         fretted over his late arrival to the battle. He was frustrated by the vague
                         orders and bad information that he felt had led him to march to the wrong
                              front.9 He was also fearful that his difficulties
                         would lower him in 
                              6The orderly most likely missed Grant and
                                   left the message for delivery in the headquarters mail. Wallace,
                                        Lew Wallace, 1: 448-58.
                              7Ibid., 459-63.
                              8James Harrison Wilson, The
                                        Life of John A. Rawlins: Lawyer Assistant Adjutant-General,
                                        Chief of Staff, Major General of Volunteers, and Secretary
                                        of War (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1916), 86-87, 97-98. For an analysis of the
                                   evidence on Wallaces march to the Shiloh battlefield, see Larry
                                   J. Daniel, Shiloh: The Battle That Changed the Civil
                                        War (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1997), 256-61.
                              9When Captain Baxter met Wallace on the
                                   morning of April 6, he told him that the enemy was being
                                   repulsed. This knowledge led Wallace to march toward the original
                                   Union front line well out from the river (via an abandoned road
                                   called the Shunpike) rather than for 
                                        Pittsburg Landing
                                    as Grant evidently contemplated. Wallace, Lew Wallace, 1: 463-475; Simon, The Papers of Ulysses S. Grant, 5: 69-70.
                         
                         Grant's estimation. Nothing in
                         their direct exchanges gave support to Wallace's fear. Indeed,
                         Grant's initial report on Shiloh, dated April 9, passed lightly
                         over Wallace: "Genl Lew Wallace, at 
                              Crumps Landing
                          six miles below, was ordered at an early hour in the morning
                         to hold his division in readiness to be moved in any direction to which it
                         might be ordered. At about 11 oClock the order was delivered to move it up
                         to 
                              Pittsburgh
                         , but owing to its being led by a highl
                         circuitous route did not arrive in time to take part in Sundays
                         action." Nevertheless, Wallace worried. "The newspapers
                         have several lies about me aside from the report of my death," he
                         advised his wife, Susan. "Time," he asserted after
                         explaining his extended march to the front, "will set everything
                         right at last."10
                    Despite his optimism, Wallace soon began receiving signals suggesting
                         something was amiss. In late April 1862, Wallace balked at an order from
                         Grant. Grant testily rebuked his remonstration: "Your instructions
                         are plain. You were not to await the arrival of Cavalry, but the Cavalry
                         was to follow and report. Too often my orders and instructions are
                         misunderstood or totally disregarded by you."11That summer, Wallace was removed from his field command and
                         assigned to 
                              Cincinnati
                         . He pinned blame primarily on Major General Henry W. Halleck,
                         commander of all Union armies, and desperately sought reassignment to a
                         fighting unit. During the exceedingly cautious march on 
                              Corinth
                          following the battle of Shiloh, Wallace had harshly criticized
                         Halleck's leadership in the presence of that general's
                         staff officers and subsequently had reason to believe that Halleck disliked
                              him.12 Initially ordered on October 30 to report
                         to Grant at 
                              Corinth
                         , Wallace was instead directed back to 
                              Cincinnati
                          to serve on a military commission. By November, the rift
                         between Grant and Wallace was known even by public officials in 
                              Indiana
                         . It is not clear how this knowledge had come to
                         Wallace's political friends in his home state, but they definitely
                         tried to minimize contact between the two men. For instance, Governor
                         Oliver P. Morton's private secretary telegraphed Morton in 
                              Washington D.C.
                         : "If Lew. Wallace is ordered to Grant, have it
                         changed to 
                              10Wallace, Lew Wallace, 2:
                                   576; Simon, The Papers of Ulysses S. Grant, 5:
                                   33; and Lew Wallace to Susan E. Wallace, April 17, 1862, reel 2,
                                   Lew Wallace Collection. Many newspaper reports after the battle
                                   of Shiloh confused Lew Wallace with William H. L. Wallace, a
                                   Union general and division commander who was mortally wounded
                                   during the fighting.
                              11Simon, The Papers of Ulysses
                                        S. Grant, 5: 93.
                              12Morsberger and Morsberger, Lew Wallace,
                                   106-8.
                         
                         McClernand. He and Grant do not get
                         along, and he desires to go with McClernand."13 (It must be noted that Grant despised Major General John A.
                         McClernand, and any sign of fondness for that officer by Wallace could only
                         further irritate Grant.) Certainly, Grant did not hide from his superiors
                         his lack of enthusiasm for Wallace. Assessing "Wing and Division
                         commanders" on December 14, he concluded that it would be
                         "particularly unfortunate" to have Wallace sent to him
                         because he held too high a rank to manage.14 During the
                         summer, Wallace had testified before the joint congressional committee
                         investigating the conduct of the war. Although circumscribed and measured,
                         Wallace's testimony easily could be construed as critical of
                         Grant's generalship at both Fort Donelson and Shiloh. Such remarks
                         could not have warmed Grant's feelings for his subordinate.15
                    One year after Wallace's unfortunate late arrival to Shiloh, it was
                         no longer necessary for him to pick up on subtleties or to sift rumors and
                         innuendoes to determine Grant's views. Upset over "unjust
                         aspersions" still abroad stemming from his division's
                         march from 
                              Crump's Landing
                          to the battlefield at Shiloh, Wallace supplied an official
                         explanation of his actions in a letter to Halleck dated March 14, 1863.16 Then in 
                              Washington D.C.
                         , Wallace read Grant's official endorsement, dated
                         April 25, 1862, on the report Wallace had submitted immediately after the
                         battle: I directed this Division about 8
                              O'Clock a. m. to be held in readiness to move at a moments
                              warning in any direction it might be ordered. Certainly not later than
                              11 a. m. the order reached Gen. Wallace to march by a flank movement
                              to 
                                   Pittsburg Landing
                              . Waiting until I thought he should be here I sent one of
                              my staff to hurry him, and afterwards sent Col. McPherson and my A A.
                              G. This report in some other particulars I do not fully endorse.17
                         
                              13Simon, The Papers of Ulysses
                                        S. Grant, 6: 286-87.
                              14Ibid., 7: 29.
                              15House Committee on the Conduct of the War,
                                   37th Cong., 3rd sess., 1862. H. Doc. 108, pp. 337-53.
                              16The War of the Rebellion: A
                                        Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and
                                        Confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                                        Washington D.C.
                                   , 1880-1901), ser. 1, vol. 10, part 1, 176.
                              17Simon, The Papers of Ulysses
                                        S. Grant, 5: 68. Wallace's report, dated April
                                   12, 1862, appears in The War of the Rebellion,
                                   ser. 1, vol. 10, part 1, 169-74.
                         
                         Mortified and astonished, Wallace wrote
                         a long letter to Grant on June 27, 1863, seeking to correct errors and
                         obtain exoneration.18 Wallace wanted to appeal to Grant
                         in person and wrote only after being refused permission to visit him at 
                              Vicksburg
                         , which the general then held under siege. Hearing nothing from
                         Grant, Wallace formally requested Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton to
                         order a court of inquiry.19 Wallace's desire
                         for an investigation would have been keener still had he known of
                         Grant's response to the initial letter Wallace had written to
                         Halleck. After soliciting and receiving from pertinent staff officers
                         written recollections critical of Wallace's performance, Grant
                         vouched "for their almost entire accuracy" and surmised
                         at Wallace's expense: "Had Gen. Wallace been releived
                         from duty in the morning, and the same orders been communicated to Brig Gen
                         Morgan L. Smith (who would have been his successor) I do not doubt that the
                         Division would have been on the field of battle and in the engagement,
                         before one o'clock of that eventful 6th of April. There is no
                         estimating the difference this might have made in our casualties."
                         A week later, Grant repeated this language in a second letter to
                              Halleck.20
                    Wallace understood that this tension was quickly building toward a public
                         clash with Grant, and he sought the advice of Major General William
                         Tecumseh Sherman, who had overcome allegations of insanity early in the war
                         to fill important commands under Grant and establish a friendship with him.
                         Sherman had also commanded a division at Shiloh, fighting alongside Wallace
                         on the second day of the battle. Less than two weeks later, Sherman had
                         written a friendly letter to Wallace in response to a request that they
                         coordinate scouts and pickets. "You may always take it for
                         granted," Sherman informed Wallace, "that I will accede
                         to any plan of picketing you may suggest."21
                         Given this background, 
                              18Wallace's emotions were founded.
                                   Two days before Grant wrote his stinging endorsement, Wallace had
                                   received a note from Grant's adjutant implying agreement
                                   with the report: "I am directed by the General
                                   Commanding to say that you have permission to forward your
                                   Official Report of the Battle of Shiloh for
                                   publication." John A. Rawlins to Lew Wallace, April 23,
                                   1862, reel 2, Lew Wallace Collection.
                              19Simon, The Papers of Ulysses
                                        S. Grant, 8: 60-62; and The War of the
                                        Rebellion, ser. 1, vol. 10, part 1, 188-89.
                              20Simon, The Papers of Ulysses
                                        S. Grant, 8: 60, 95. The reports from Grant's
                                   staff officers appear in The War of the
                                        Rebellion, ser. 1, vol. 10, part 1, 178-88.
                              21William Tecumseh Sherman to Lew Wallace,
                                   April 19, 1862, reel 2, Lew Wallace Collection. Sherman also
                                   noted that he and Grant had passed Wallace's
                                   "new Camps" on April 18: "We supposed
                                   you very busy; else would have stopped." This is the
                                   only letter between Sherman and Wallace found in this collection
                                   that is not readily available in print. Collections at the
                                   University of Notre Dame and the Ohio Historical Society contain
                                   no letters between or involving Sherman and Wallace. The Library
                                   of Congress holds only a few, which are incorporated into this
                                   essay.
                         
                         Wallace could expect a knowledgeable
                         and sympathetic hearing. Sherman's reply to Wallace's
                         August 16 letter was diplomatic. He promised to see Grant about
                         Wallace's concerns and assured the troubled general that Grant
                         esteemed him "as possessing as large a share of high soldierly
                         qualities as would satisfy the ambition of most men." "We
                         have all made mistakes," Sherman continued, "and Should
                         be generous to each other." Praising Grant for his qualities as a
                         commander, Sherman counseled Wallace not to press for an inquiry into the
                         events at Shiloh, noting that future actions "may sweep that into
                         the forgotten of the Past." Sherman recommended that Wallace find
                         another division, lead it quietly, "and trust to opportunity for a
                         becoming sequel to the brilliant beginning you had." More than
                         anything, Sherman urged patience. "Avoid all
                         controversies," he concluded, "bear patiently temporary
                         reverses, get into the Current events as quick as possible, and hold your
                         horses for the last home stretch."22
                         Sherman's words persuaded Wallace to withdraw his request for a
                         court of inquiry. He wrote to Secretary Stanton: "It is possible
                         that I may satisfy General Grant upon the points involved, and thus save
                         further trouble."23
                    True to his word, Sherman brought Wallace's case to Grant's
                         attention at the end of August. First, he forwarded Wallace's
                         explanatory letter; second, he sent a confidential telegram to John A.
                         Rawlins (the aide who had been sent to hurry Wallace's advance on
                         April 6, 1862). Characterizing Wallace's letter as "long
                         & very proper," Sherman asked that Wallace be answered
                         "in a kind tone" and given hope of restoration to a field
                         command. While Sherman agreed with Rawlins that Wallace "was
                         laggard" at Shiloh, he believed that the supplicant general had
                         "good qualities which with proper cultivation might Save his honor
                         & be of use to the Service."24> Grant
                         responded that restoring Wallace to a high command in the army would
                         unjustly deprive some able and richly 
                              22Brooks D. Simpson and Jean V. Berlin,
                                   eds., Sherman's Civil War: Selected
                                        Correspondence, 1860-1865 (
                                        Chapel Hill
                                   , 
                                        N.C.
                                   , 1999), 526-27.
                              23The War of the
                                   Rebellion, ser. 1, vol. 10, part 1, 190.
                              24Simon, The Papers of Ulysses
                                        S. Grant, 8: 95-96.
                         
                         deserving officer of a place or a
                         promotion. Sherman summarized his meeting with Grant in a letter to Wallace
                         dated October 9, and conceded the merit of Grant's view. Sherman
                         still encouraged Wallace to persist in his efforts to secure field duty.
                         While disappointed, Wallace later admitted that "the delicacy with
                         which he imparted the result was not without a soothing
                              effect."25
                    Wallace's tortuous quest for active duty ended in March 1864 with
                         his assignment to command the Eighth Army Corps and the Middle Department,
                         which included 
                              Delaware
                          and a considerable portion of 
                              Maryland
                         . Less than four months later, his leadership at the battle of
                         Monocacy delayed a strong Confederate column bent on ransacking 
                              Washington, D.C.
                         , and revived Wallace's relationship with Grant. Then
                         the commander of all Union armies, Grant had stripped the fortifications at
                         the capital to augment the forces fighting toward 
                              Richmond
                         . Many influential politicians felt that Grant's
                         actions had left the capital vulnerable to Confederate raid. Although
                         Wallace and his troops lost the battle of Monocacy on July 9, they had
                         slowed the Confederate advance just enough to allow reinforcements sent by
                         Grant to reach 
                              Washington
                          and turn away the raiders on the outskirts of the city.
                    In the days that followed the battle, Grant showed his usual disregard for
                         Wallace, recommending that Major General Edward O. C. Ord, an officer whom
                         he held in high regard, supersede Wallace as commander of troops operating
                         in the field. Grant's attitude changed as he came to realize the
                         full extent of Wallace's effort - his final battle report praised
                         Wallace for moving "with commendable promptitude."26 Grant also showed renewed confidence at an early
                         August dinner with Wallace in 
                              Baltimore
                         . Writing about it a few days later, Wallace barely could
                         suppress his exuberance: "He was unusually kind - even
                         demonstrative to me. He spoke of the Battle of Monocacy, and was sure we
                         killed and wounded three times as many rebels as our own losses . . .
                         Before leaving, he gave me a warm invitation to visit him at City Point, which I am sure to do as soon as the Shenandoah Valley
                         grows more quiet."27
                    Wallace visited City Point in early September, and again received cordial treatment.
                         Grant, Wallace wrote to his wife, "seemed to be taking 
                              25Wallace, Lew Wallace, 2:
                                   666.
                              26Simon, The Papers of Ulysses
                                        S. Grant, 15: 192.
                              27Lew Wallace to unknown (possibly Susan E.
                                   Wallace), August 8, 1864, reel 3, Lew Wallace Collection.
                         
                         pains to make me forget that there had
                         ever been anything between us of an unpleasant nature." One staff
                         officer apparently felt comfortable enough with Wallace to reveal a Grant
                         secret: Whenever visitors questioned Grant and the general was unsure of
                         his answer, he spoiled matches trying to light a cigar. When Grant finally
                         struck a match, his reply was ready.28 Wallace did not
                         broach his differences with Grant over the march to Shiloh despite
                         discussion of that battle and Fort Donelson. "He acted as if there
                         had been no differences," Wallace wrote to his wife, "and
                         so did I." Grant ended their visit by indicating that he might
                         want Wallace to serve as his chief of staff. Obviously pleased, Wallace
                         informed his wife that he would accept the position if Grant offered it.29
                    Rather than fighting in 
                              Virginia
                         , Wallace was assigned to conduct delicate and irregular
                         negotiations along the Mexican border. Wallace's former schoolmate
                         S. S. Brown had learned that Confederates in western 
                              Texas
                         , if given proper assurances, would change their allegiance,
                         unite with Union soldiers, and march into 
                              Mexico
                          to support republicans attempting to overthrow the French
                         imperialist government that had recently persuaded a youthful member of the
                         Austrian royal family, Maximilian, to rule as emperor. Wallace conveyed
                         this information to Grant in a letter dated January 14, 1865, and asked to
                         be sent to the region to explore possibilities. Bringing enemy soldiers
                         into Union ranks through a Mexican venture, Wallace promised,
                         "would stagger the rebellion, next to the giving in of the State
                         of 
                              Georgia
                         ."30 Grant viewed the imperialists
                         in 
                              Mexico
                          as a real threat to the Monroe Doctrine and sympathized
                         heartily with the republicans. Eight days later, he ordered Wallace to
                         inspect western 
                              Texas
                         . Wallace spent February and March in the southwest attempting
                         to find allies and build coalitions. He planned army operations to isolate
                         Maximilian and wrote Grant to request command of all Union forces in 
                              Texas
                         . Blithely ignoring military and diplomatic realities,
                         Wallace's schemes mushroomed into the realm of the 
                              28Ibid. Wallace observed Grant perform this
                                   bit of theater when a delegation from 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    came to press for more active offensive operations.
                                   On cue, Grant spoke when he struck his match, telling his
                                   visitors that keeping General Robert E. Lee's army in
                                   place at 
                                        Richmond
                                    and struggling with supplies was then better
                                   strategy than chasing a large force over the countryside and
                                   causing a Union supply problem.
                              29Lew Wallace to Susan E. Wallace, September
                                   12, 1864, and Lew Wallace to William Wallace, September 23, 1864,
                                   reel 3, Lew Wallace Collection.
                              30Simon, The Papers of Ulysses
                                        S. Grant, 13: 283.
                         
                         improbable - if not impossible - and
                         Grant quite properly chose not to answer the long letters from his
                         enthusiastic inspector.
                    While Wallace entertained his various Rio Grande intrigues, the Civil War
                         effectively ended with the march of Sherman's army through the
                         Carolinas and Lee's surrender to Grant at 
                              Appomattox
                         . Wallace arrived in 
                              Baltimore
                          on April 15 and hoped to report to Grant in person, but
                         President Lincoln's assassination the previous day disrupted his
                         plans. Dismayed that "the business stands unconcluded,"
                         Wallace wrote to Grant in an effort to reignite his interest in the Mexican
                         negotiations. The letter apparently went unnoticed.31
                    Grant was, however, still paying attention to Mexican affairs. He selected
                         major generals Philip H. Sheridan and John M. Schofield, two of his
                         favorite officers, to pursue matters along the border. Sheridan
                         subsequently sent reports to Grant that derided Wallace's
                         activities. In particular, Sheridan revealed that Wallace had attempted to
                         secure American money and volunteers to deploy in 
                              Mexico
                          through contact with an unreliable Mexican republican leader
                         named Jos Maria Jess Carvajal, whom Wallace had brought
                         east under an assumed name.32 These revelations
                         undoubtedly dampened any enthusiasm Grant may have felt for
                         Wallace's schemes.
                    Although deeply enamored over prospects for a republican success in 
                              Mexico
                         , Wallace persisted for practical reasons as well. Carvajal had
                         promised him a big payday and a commission as major general in the Mexican
                         Army if he would cajole funds out of financiers and raise volunteers from
                         the swelling ranks of mustered-out soldiers. Wallace carried out much of
                         this business on the sly while sitting on the military commission that
                         tried the Lincoln conspirators and acting as secretary of the military
                         commission that eventually condemned to death Henry Wirz, commander of the
                         notorious Confederate prison at 
                              Andersonville
                         , 
                              Georgia
                         . Completing these official duties, Wallace determined that he
                         must see Grant, and he enlisted Schofield to bring about a face-to-face
                         exchange while Grant visited 
                              New York
                                   City
                         . "Gen. Wallace will call upon you,"
                         Schofield wrote on November 15, "in reference to a matter of
                         importance, which he will explain to you. Please comply with his wishes, in
                         the matter, if practicable."33 Busy schedules
                         evidently precluded a 
                              31Ibid., 289.
                              32Ibid., 16: 323-24.
                              33John M. Schofield to Ulysses S. Grant,
                                   November 15, 1865, reel 4, Lew Wallace Collection.
                         
                         meeting of the two. On November 16,
                         Wallace sat in the Metropolitan Hotel where Grant was lodging and wrote the
                         general to ask his assistance in coordinating troops along the Mexican
                         border and in procuring arms in 
                              New
                                   Orleans
                          for shipment to 
                              Brownsville
                         , 
                              Texas
                         . "I will be back at between 12 and 1 o'clock
                         to make an effort to get a word with you," Wallace stated
                         hopefully, before concluding, "if that is impossible, I trust you
                         will extend your confidence far enough to give me your views and
                         conclusions on the points submitted." No written reply from Grant
                         has been identified, and it is doubtful that the two men conversed in any
                         substantial way on this subject.34
                    Matters did not improve appreciably even after the fall, when Wallace
                         submitted his army resignation to devote himself to Mexican ventures.
                         Wallace desperately implored Grant on December 14, 1865: "I find
                         myself at my 'wit's end,' compelled to turn to
                         you or the President. Is it not possible to effect something through a
                         secret fund? Or, cannot a secret loan treaty be made with 
                              Mexico
                         ?"35 Grant evidently ignored this
                         pathetic appeal, and Wallace, now a Mexican major general with no troops to
                         lead, could do little more than wander about 
                              Mexico
                          in search of fame and fortune. He found neither, but he did
                         continue to ask Grant's assistance in securing reappointment for a
                         friend as collector of customs at 
                              Brownsville
                         . Again, Grant evidently ignored Wallace's appeal. The
                         republicans finally prevailed when the French withdrew from 
                              Mexico
                          and left Maximilian unsupported. Wallace resigned his Mexican
                         Army commission and returned to the 
                              United States
                          shortly after Maximilian was executed on June 19, 1867.
                    With his hopes for success in 
                              Mexico
                          dashed, Wallace had to find another way to pay his expenses.
                         He hit upon the idea of persuading the 
                              United States
                          government to adopt his book on infantry tactics, drafted in
                         the lull following Shiloh. As he completed the manuscript in January 1866,
                         Wallace wrote to Grant seeking advice on how to solicit the government for
                         publication. Two months later, Wallace asked Grant to present his
                         manuscript to Secretary of War Stanton for formal review. Grant forwarded
                         Wallace's letter and manuscript to Stanton with the 
                              34Lew Wallace to Ulysses S. Grant, November
                                   16, 1865, ibid.
                              35Simon, The Papers of Ulysses
                                        S. Grant, 15: 628-29. For additional details on
                                   Wallace's actions in 
                                        Mexico
                                   , see Robert Ryal Miller, "Lew Wallace and
                                   the French Intervention in 
                                        Mexico
                                   ," Indiana Magazine of
                                        History, 59 (March 1963), 31-50.
                         
                          recommendation that three infantry
                         officers conduct the review. Wallace believed his tactics "simpler
                         than the old one[s]" and better suited to modern army maneuvers,
                         but the board's finding that Wallace's proposals
                         "had little to recommend, either, in the deviations from the
                         authorized System, or in the additions thereto" left him
                              disappointed.36 Grant approved the principal
                         features of the board's report, and on February 4, 1867, heartily
                         endorsed a board recommendation to adopt Lieutenant Colonel Emory
                         Upton's published book on infantry tactics.
                    Wallace perceived himself as a victim of both army politics and hidebound
                         military beliefs. Another incident a year later reopened his Shiloh wounds.
                         Adam Badeau's newly published Military History of
                              Ulysses S. Grant (1859), written in close cooperation with Grant,
                         offered a harsh assessment of Wallace's actions at Shiloh.37 In a letter to Grant dated February 28, 1868,
                         Wallace sought "a note of acquittal from blame, plain enough to
                         allay the suspicions and charges to which I have been so painfully
                              subjected."38 With his request, Wallace
                         sent Grant statements from several officers who had served under him on
                         that fateful day. Although the statements generally supported
                         Wallace's version of events, he had silently edited them for
                         greater consistency and grander effect.39
                         Grant's reply was friendly, but too tepid to suit Wallace, who
                         requested Grant's authorization to delete the words "seem
                         to" in a critical sentence of the latter's response:
                         "The statements which I now return seem to exonerate you from the
                         great point of blame, your taking the wrong road, or different road from
                         the one directed, from 
                              Crumps Landing
                          to 
                              Pittsburg Landing
                         ." Grant made no known reply to Wallace's
                         editing request.40
                    
                         36Simon, The Papers of Ulysses S.
                                   Grant, 17: 45-46.
                         37After reading extracts of Badeau's
                              military history published in the Chicago Tribune on
                              December 25, 1867, former soldier James R. Ross addressed a long
                              letter to Wallace that explicitly denounced that book's
                              handling of the general at Shiloh. James R. Ross to Lew Wallace,
                              January 25, 1868, reel 6, Lew Wallace Collection.
                         38Simon, The Papers of Ulysses S.
                                   Grant, 18: 191.
                         39Wallace's editing marks are visible on
                              the originals. Once he had redacted the texts, Wallace crossed out a
                              passage included in the first draft of his letter to Grant:
                              "Upon reading, you will discover conflicts in the letters,
                              but as all such are on minor points, they will, if rightly considered,
                              serve to convince you that each writer drew his paper independently
                              and without collusion with me or each other." Lew Wallace to
                              Ulysses S. Grant, February 28, 1868, reel 6, Lew Wallace
                              Collection.
                         40Simon, The Papers of Ulysses S.
                                   Grant, 18: 192.
                    
                    
                    Grant's inauguration as President of the United States on March 4,
                         1869, opened new possibilities for Wallace. His support for the Republican
                         Party as a campaign speaker and, to a lesser extent, his unsuccessful
                         congressional bid in 1870, put Wallace in line for patronage positions as
                         rewards for his political service, and he was not shy about asserting his
                         personal relationship with Grant.41 Only two days after
                         Grant took office, Wallace, while sitting in the White House, wrote a
                         letter to the new president appealing for appointment as 
                              Indiana's
                          district attorney. You have it in
                              power to do me a favor. I have returned to the law, and by hard work
                              and patience hope to win my way back to a good practice. The office of
                              United States District Attorney for the District of Indiana has no
                              political significance, and is at present filled by a gentleman
                              notoriously incompetent; it would nevertheless be a great help to me,
                              by at once giving me the start in the profession which I so much
                              covet. I make request for the appointment directly, as your knowledge
                              of me makes recommendations and interference of others unnecessary. If
                              you think me a proper person to discharge the duties of the position,
                              and are free to give it to me, and are so disposed, I feel sure this
                              direct asking will do me no harm. As to my qualifications I have no
                              hesitation in referring you to Mr. Colfax. Having congratulated you
                              before and after your inaugeration, I leave you this note, and place
                              the matter in your hands, and go home tonight.42 Nothing developed from this bold sally, probably
                         because Wallace harbored no real enthusiasm for a resumption of his legal
                         career, and Grant never saw, or gave little attention to, this one request
                         among the thousands that inundated him during the initial weeks of his
                         presidency.
                    Wallace again approached Grant for a political favor in August 1872, and the
                         inveterate adventurer from 
                              Indiana
                          pursued this one with vigor. Wallace had joined a group of
                         entrepreneurs interested in starting 
                              41Morsberger and Morsberger, Lew Wallace, 216.
                              42Simon, The Papers of Ulysses
                                        S. Grant, 19: 364. Wallace refers to Vice President
                                   Schuyler Colfax, who served from 1869 to 1873.
                         
                         a steamship service between 
                              New
                                   Orleans
                          and 
                              Brazil
                         , and they had identified friendly ministers and consuls at key
                         points in South America essential to a profitable venture. Wallace
                         contacted Grant about the project, asking for the appointment of Charles M.
                         Travis of 
                              Crawfordsville
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , as consul to 
                              Par
                         , 
                              Brazil
                         , "a point of the highest importance" to the
                         success of the steamship line. Several prominent Hoosiers joined Wallace in
                         recommending Travis. Grant favored commercial expansion, especially in
                         Central and South American nations, and gave a favorable endorsement to
                         Wallace's letter: Travis received the consulship.43
                    Wallace also sought from Grant a diplomatic appointment for himself in a
                         place where he could facilitate the contemplated steamship business.
                         Wallace first targeted a consulship at 
                              Santarm
                         , 
                              Brazil
                         , but then set his sights on the more prestigious position of
                         minister to 
                              Bolivia
                         . "A residence in that country, about to be opened to
                         direct trade by a railroad around the falls of the Madeira river,"
                         Wallace explained, "will give me ample opportunity to post myself
                         and the American public upon what is to day really a sealed book - I mean
                         commercial affairs in the Amazon valley."44 To boost his chances of appointment, Wallace
                         gathered recommendation letters from an impressive list of national
                         political notables; wrote a letter to the editor of an 
                              Omaha
                          newspaper, defending Grant against charges of drunkenness at
                         Fort Donelson and Shiloh; and presented political dirt on incumbent
                         minister Leopold Markbreit, whose supporters, he alleged, had tried to
                         blackmail the Republican National Committee.45 In the
                         end, Wallace's efforts went unrewarded; Grant nominated John T.
                         Croxton, a former Union cavalry officer from 
                              Kentucky
                         , to the Bolivian post.46
                    Wallace's failure to secure an overseas station proved fortunate.
                         The steamship enterprise wrecked in the wake of the Panic of 1873 and cast
                         the luckless Consul Travis adrift, impoverished and suffering the ravages
                         of yellow fever. Travis floated back to 
                              Crawfordsville
                          by 
                              43Travis had served in the 12th Illinois
                                   Infantry and compiled a worthy army record. Ibid., 23:
                                   225-26.
                              44Ibid., 226-27.
                              45His letter to the editor defending Grant
                                   against charges of drunkenness received wide circulation through
                                   reprinting in at least one major daily. New York
                                        Times, September 11, 1872. The blackmail that Wallace
                                   uncovered was that an 
                                        Ohio
                                    newspaper publisher (and Markbreit's
                                   principal supporter) had demanded $30,000 from the Republican
                                   National Committee for his loyalty and defected to the liberal
                                   republicans when the money was not forthcoming.
                              46Simon, The Papers of Ulysses
                                        S. Grant, 19: 263-66.
                         
                         November 1875 and wrote a letter to the
                         secretary of state seeking a better appointment. He received nothing and
                         sank into historical oblivion.47 Wallace and the other
                         promoters apparently abandoned, and tried to forget, both Travis and the
                         steamship bust.
                    While the steamship company struggled, Wallace completed his first novel, The Fair God, Or, The Last of The 'Tzins: A Tale of
                              the Conquest of 
                                   Mexico
                               (1873), a work that grew out of his long fascination
                         with that country. Proud of his literary accomplishment, Wallace sent a
                         copy to Grant from 
                              Crawfordsville
                         . The author included a letter dated August 13, 1873, in which
                         he observed that "the battle portions of the book might prove
                         interesting." "I would be delighted," Wallace
                         concluded, "to have your opinion of my success in the
                              effort."48 Grant penned no known reply.
                         Wallace also sent The Fair God to Sherman, along with a
                         similar letter asking for "a note containing your opinion of the
                         work." Wallace closed by mentioning his "very vivid
                         recollection of kindnesses received from you in certain days which were
                         indescribably gloomy to me," a revealing reference to their
                         discussion of Wallace's desire for a court of inquiry to
                         investigate his conduct at Shiloh.49 Sherman promptly
                         and graciously answered Wallace's letter, praising the book and
                         encouraging Wallace to write "a series of Romances, which will
                         paint to us, the living custom" of the Mexican people.50 This pleasant exchange of letters with Sherman
                         probably encouraged Wallace to call on the general three months later when
                         the blossoming author was in 
                              Washington, D.C.
                         , conducting research for a future manuscript at the Library of
                              Congress.51
                    Wallace's contacts with Grant over the remainder of his presidency
                         were sporadic. As he prepared for a speaking tour in late 1874 following
                         popular success with The Fair God, Wallace asked Grant
                         for his comments on a lecture, "
                              Mexico
                          and the Mexicans." Grant replied through a secretary,
                         who wrote that the president "perceives no statement of fact in
                              
                              47Ibid., 23: 227-28. The 1880 U.S. Census
                                   shows Travis employed as a lawyer and residing in 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                    with his wife, Mary; six-year-old son, Claud (born
                                   in 
                                        Brazil
                                   ); and a female Irish servant named Nora Meehan. 
                                        U.S.
                                   , Tenth Census, 1880, Population Schedules for 
                                        Montgomery County
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   , p. 308.
                              48Simon, M The Papers of
                                        Ulysses S. Grant, 24: 441.
                              49Lew Wallace to William Tecumseh Sherman,
                                   August 13, 1873, William T. Sherman Papers (Library of Congress, 
                                        Washington,
                                             D.C.
                                   ).
                              50Morsberger and Morsberger, Lew Wallace, 224.
                              51Lew Wallace to Joanna M. Lane, December
                                   21, 1873, reel 6, Lew Wallace Collection.
                         
                         your copy which he would change at all,
                         and that as for the portion relating to your visit in 
                              Mexico
                          and your return you of course are the best judge." On
                         "the subject of the French occupation of 
                              Mexico
                         ," the secretary added, Grant "sympathized
                         most warmly with the cause of the Republicans" and "could
                         not but look upon the war upon them as being also directed against
                              ourselves."52
                    Writing and lecturing did not pull Wallace away from politics. The electoral
                         crisis that followed the presidential campaign in 1876 steered him to 
                              Louisiana
                          and 
                              Florida
                         , where he joined other "visiting statesmen"
                         attempting to ascertain the official vote. Grant also monitored
                         developments closely, knowing that violence might erupt and that the
                         Republicans needed every disputed electoral vote for their candidate,
                         Rutherford B. Hayes. He undoubtedly welcomed Wallace's telegram
                         sent from 
                              Tallahassee
                          on December 6, 1876: "Count just finished Hayes
                         majority nine hundred & thirty republicans elect governor Lieut
                         governor & both members of Congress all quiet."53 Wallace did not enjoy this political service, but
                         his dutifulness, and Hayes's victory, helped earn his appointment
                         as governor of New Mexico Territory in 1878.
                    In 
                              New
                                   Mexico
                         , Wallace faced the challenges of controlling desperadoes in
                         the middle of the territory and Apaches along the borders. Wallace sought
                         military approval to mobilize civilians against the Apaches. Sherman - then
                         commanding general and always zealous of professional army prerogatives -
                         denied the request, thinking incorrectly that Wallace sought militia to
                         protect 
                              Santa
                                   Fe
                          rather than to patrol the southwestern part of the territory,
                         where regular troops were stretched thin. On the whole, Wallace won praise,
                         especially for suppressing the notorious Lincoln County War and for
                         checking the wild career of the outlaw William Bonney, better known as
                         Billy the Kid. Wallace also found time to complete his second novel, Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ (1880). Its popularity
                         made him a literary celebrity and a first choice when President James A.
                         Garfield was seeking a minister to 
                              Turkey
                         , a better-paying and more prestigious post than governor of
                         New Mexico Territory.54
                    
                         52Simon, The Papers of Ulysses S.
                                   Grant, 25: 457.
                         53Ibid., 28: 48.
                         54Morsberger and Morsberger, Lew
                                   Wallace, 257-96. Wallace sent a presentation copy of Ben-Hur to John Sherman, William Tecumseh Shermans
                              younger brother, who then served as secretary of the treasury. He
                              politely acknowledged the gift and sent in return a copy of his Selected Speeches and Reports on Finance and Taxation,
                                   From 1859 to 1878 (
                                   New
                                        York
                              , 1879), which he characterized as "rather dry
                              and uninteresting" but "may some time or other be
                              useful for reference." John Sherman to Susan E. Wallace,
                              December 30, 1880, reel 9, Lew Wallace Collection.
                    
                    
                    Despite the upward trajectory of his career, Wallace's disagreement
                         with Grant over Shiloh still haunted him, and the issue was still being
                         publicly debated in 1881. Papers presented on the battle of Shiloh at the
                         annual meeting of the Society of the Army of the Tennessee in early April
                         of that year, with Sherman presiding, provoked yet another newspaper
                         controversy over the facts of the engagement. Defending Wallace against
                         charges of tardiness in moving to the front, Charles Whittlesey, former
                         colonel of the 20th Ohio Infantry, asserted a new claim that the Union
                         troops around 
                              Pittsburg Landing
                          had lost the battle on the first day, even before Wallace had
                         been ordered to move. Sherman denounced this claim - not publicly, but in a
                         letter to his nephew: "We claim that the Battle was never lost, and we object to parties who came up after the
                         hardest fighting was over, after Sidney Johnston was killed, and after the
                         Enemy was shaken by the terrible losses we had inflicted reporting and
                         adhering to the assertion that the Battle was lost, justifying their
                         conclusion that we were saved by the timely arrival of Lew
                         Wallace's Division, and of the Army of the Ohio." He then
                         distanced himself from the dispute: "Genl. Wallace never took
                         exception as far as I know to my statement of facts. His controversy is and
                         has been with Genl. Grant."55 Sherman showed
                         less restraint in a letter to William R. Rowley, a participant in the
                         newspaper dispute, and one of Grant's staff officers who had
                         reported Wallace's division marching on the wrong road on April 6,
                         1862. Sherman accepted Rowley's version of events and chided the
                         performance of Wallace and his division at Shiloh. "Wallace may
                         think he can give Grant and Sherman hell," the famously testy
                         general surmised, "but I think he will be more scorched by his own
                         fire than we."56
                    
                         55William Tecumseh Sherman to Henry Sherman, June
                              18, 1881, William T. Sherman Papers; Report of the
                                   Proceedings of the Society of the Army of the Tennessee, at the
                                   Fourteenth Annual Meeting, Held at 
                                        Cincinnati
                                   , 
                                        Ohio
                                   , April 6th and 7th, 1881 (
                                   Cincinnati
                              , 1885). Wallace was part of the Society of the Army of
                              the Tennessee, a veterans association for officers founded at the
                              close of the Civil War, during the early 1870s, but he dropped his
                              membership after coming to believe that some members blamed him for
                              the severe Union losses at Shiloh.
                         56William Tecumseh Sherman to William R. Rowley,
                              July 15, 1881, William T. Sherman Papers.
                    
                    
                    Others, however, came to Wallace's aid. Prompted by renewed public
                         discussion of Shiloh, Wallace's former subordinate officer George
                         E McGinnis set about preparing a defense of his division commander for
                         presentation at a reunion of the 11th Indiana Infantry in September 1883.
                         He asked Wallace to supply material favorable to his case. Evidently both
                         Wallace and McGinnis were hindered by fears that Grant still wielded
                         political influence. McGinnis assured his former superior that rather than
                         read a paper on Shiloh "which might produce ill feeling on the
                         part of Grant and his friends" and result in Wallace's
                         removal as minister to 
                              Turkey
                         , he "would put the paper in the fire."57 Changing his stance in a letter of April 7, 1883,
                         McGinnis rebuked Wallace for adopting the position that it was not yet time
                         to settle "the whole question" of his connection to
                         Shiloh. Further delay, McGinnis suggested, would mean that those remaining
                         veterans of Shiloh would die off and prevent the collection of necessary
                         evidence in Wallace's favor. Wallace was sufficiently convinced to
                         write a letter, also read aloud at the 11th Indiana reunion, claiming that
                         Badeau's Military History of Ulysses S. Grant
                         had misportrayed and scapegoated him "to protect the reputation of
                              others."58
                    Wallace's edginess about the legacy of Shiloh surfaced again only
                         one month later, when he learned that the federal government planned to
                         publish the Shiloh battle reports in its eagerly awaited Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (1884)
                         along with Grant's damning endorsement of Wallace's
                         account. Presumably frantic, Wallace cabled Secretary of War Robert Todd
                         Lincoln on October 27, 1883: "Please have publication of report of
                         battle of Shiloh deferred till receipt of letter from me."59 The next day Wallace wrote that letter.
                         "It may already be in your knowledge that I was subjected to most
                         severe accusations in connection with the movements of my command during
                         the first day of that battle," he began, and then discussed at
                         length the "dishonoring effect" of his critics'
                         persistence. To remedy the situation, he asked Lincoln to have the editor
                         include Grant's postwar modification of his initial endorsement of
                         Wallace, as well as the statements from officers in 
                              57George E McGinnis to Lew Wallace, June 23,
                                   1882, reel 9, Lew Wallace Collection.
                              58New York Times,
                                   September 20, 1883; George E McGinnis to Lew Wallace, April 7,
                                   1883, reel 9, Lew Wallace Collection.
                              59Lew Wallace to Robert Todd Lincoln,
                                   October 27, 1883, reel 9, Lew Wallace Collection.
                         
                          Wallace's command that had
                         prompted Grant to alter his view.60 The many scratch
                         outs and revisions in the draft letter suggest Wallace's great
                         anxiety as he labored to strike the right note. He did win a small victory
                         when Lincoln delayed the printing of the questioned volume on the strength
                         of the cable; in the end, however, Wallace was unable to change the content
                         of the volume. Siding with series editor Robert N. Scott, Lincoln wrote
                         Wallace that opening the Official Records to later
                         recollections and explanations would mar the contemporary documents and
                         that including such materials was not "within the laws and the
                         rules" established by Congress in its authorization of the work.
                         Trying to soothe Wallace, Lincoln observed that in no other case had the
                         series printed "unofficial papers prepared after the war was over.
                         For these the historians must go elsewhere. I regret very much the
                         disappointment which will be caused you by the course which my duty in this
                         matter compels me to take."61
                    New opportunities for satisfaction arose after direct contact between Wallace
                         and Grant resumed during the spring and summer of 1884. The former general
                         and president had been left virtually penniless in the wake of frauds
                         committed by the managing partner of his Wall Street firm of Grant
                         & Ward. At roughly the same time, Grant was diagnosed with throat
                         cancer. Previously unwilling to chronicle his Civil War experiences, Grant
                         now agreed to author articles for Century Magazine. When
                         Wallace learned that one article covered Shiloh, he wrote to Grant to see
                         if this account might contain his long-sought exoneration for "one
                         who has been so bitterly and continuously criticised in the
                         connection." After restating all of his former contentions,
                         Wallace concluded on an emotional note: "For the sake of the
                         hundreds of survivors of my old division, as well as that justice may be
                         finally and completely done to me individually, I presume to present the
                         matter to you in this letter."62 Grant replied
                         cordially, but left Wallace unsure about whether his former superior would
                         present a revised view. A meeting with Grant and his wife at their 
                              New York
                                   City
                          home in November assured Wallace that the couple admired his
                         achievements as an author, 
                              60Lew Wallace to Robert Todd Lincoln,
                                   October 28, 1883, ibid.
                              61Robert N. Scott to Robert Todd Lincoln,
                                   November 16, 1883 and Robert Todd Lincoln to Lew Wallace,
                                   November 21, 1883, ibid.
                              62Lew Wallace to Ulysses S. Grant, September
                                   16, 1884, reel 10, ibid.
                         
                         but still did not clarify whether the
                         ailing general's forthcoming article would resolve the Shiloh
                         contention. "I talked the Shiloh matter all over with
                         Grant," Wallace wrote to his wife, "and he is now making
                         the final modifications of his article on 
                              Pittsburg Landing
                         . Still I cannot say his remarks were satisfactory. He talked
                         all around the matter without actually touching it, and made no promises.
                         If his article has as much of himself in it, as his conversation it will be
                         Grant and very little battle. So wags the world away!"63
                    The article that finally appeared in Century Magazine in
                         February 1885, disappointed and disturbed Wallace. It contained all the old
                         charges worsened by a misguided effort to alleviate their sting:
                         "I presume his idea was that by taking the route he did, he would
                         be able to come around on the flank or rear of the enemy, and thus perform
                         an act of heroism that would redound to the credit of his command, as well
                         as to the benefit of his country."64 From his
                         post in 
                              Turkey
                         , Wallace lamented to his son Henry that Grant's
                         article was "just about as I expected and as I would have had it,
                         since he was determined to attack me again." Century editor Roswell Smith, Wallace noted, had offered him an
                         opportunity for a brief reply. Wallace instead requested "space
                         for a full article on the subject."65
                         Expressing less bravado in a letter sent to his wife several weeks later,
                         Wallace wrote: "Shiloh and its slanders. Will the world ever
                         acquit me of them? If I were guilty I would not feel them so
                              keenly."66
                    A friendly newspaper editor in 
                              Indianapolis
                          promised in an editorial that Wallace would refute Grant with
                         "a full and perfect history of the movements of his division
                         throughout the two days of the battle." According to this editor,
                         Wallace would share specifics from his conversation with Grant when the two
                         had dined together at City Point, particularly Grant's statement to him that
                         "If I had known then what I know now, I would have ordered you to
                         move as you started for the field."67
                         Outlining plans for his reply to Grant in a letter to another friend, 
                              63Ulysses S. Grant to Lew Wallace, October
                                   7, 1884, in Nichols, ed., From Sumter to
                                   Shiloh, 610; Lew Wallace to Susan E. Wallace, November 21,
                                   1884, reel 10, Lew Wallace Collection.
                              64U.S. Grant, "The Battle of
                                   Shiloh," Century Magazine, 29
                                   (February 1885), 596.
                              65Lew Wallace to Henry L. Wallace, February
                                   14, 1885, reel 10, Lew Wallace Collection.
                              66Lew Wallace to Susan E. Wallace, March 3,
                                   1885, ibid.
                              67New York World, March
                                   10, 1885. The editorial appeared in the March 11, 1885 edition of
                                   the Indianapolis Times.
                         
                         Wallace indicated that
                         "I'm not at all dispirited over Grant's article.
                         In fact I feel sorry for him. His mental failure is vastly more observable
                         than his physical."68 Once over his initial
                         anger, however, Wallace thought better of a written attack on the dying
                         hero. He never composed a full account of his actions at Shiloh until his
                         autobiography, published posthumously in 1906.69
                    Grant tried one last time to moderate his censures of Wallace at Shiloh. Just
                         before his Century article appeared, Grant received from
                         the widow of Brigadier General William H. L. Wallace a letter that Lew
                         Wallace had written to her husband, dated April 5, 1862, that showed him
                         actively preparing to move to the main Union position at 
                              Pittsburg Landing
                          by the route his division at first followed when the
                         Confederate attack came the next day. "This modifies very
                         materially what I have said, and what has been said by others, of the
                         conduct of General Lew Wallace at the battle of Shiloh," Grant
                         wrote in response to this revelation. Wallace's letter, Grant
                         continued, "shows that he naturally, with no more experience than
                         he had at the time in the profession of arms, would take the particular
                         road that he did start upon in the absence of orders to move by a different
                         road." He then admitted that his staff officer could have garbled
                         the verbal order to Wallace, and "that I am not competent to say
                         just what order the general actually received." Finally, Grant
                         acknowledged that if the Union front at 
                              Pittsburg Landing
                          "had not changed, the road which Wallace took would
                         have been somewhat shorter to our right than the River road."
                         These conclusions appeared in Century Magazine shortly
                         after Grant's death in July 1885. They were also included as a
                         note to the chapter on the first day at Shiloh in Personal
                              Memoirs of U. S. Grant (1886). Since 300,000 subscribed to
                         Grant's reminiscences, many likely read his much more sympathetic
                              assessment.70
                    
                         68Lew Wallace to E. E Test, March 11, 1885, reel
                              10, Lew Wallace Collection.
                         69For a stout defense of Wallace in response to
                              Grant's Century article, see Charles
                              Whittlesey, "Wallace at Shiloh," Magazine of Western History, 2 (July 1885), 213-22.
                         70Century Magazine, 30
                              (September, 1885), 776; Ulysses S. Grant, Personal
                                   Memoirs of U. S. Grant, (2 vols., 
                                   New
                                        York
                              , 1886), 1: 351-52. Wallace acknowledged Grant's
                              exoneration in his oration at the dedication of the 
                                   Indiana
                               monuments at Shiloh, April 6, 1903. John W. Coons, comp.,
                                   
                                        Indiana
                                    at Shiloh (
                                   Shiloh
                              , 
                                   Tenn.
                              , 1904), 269-80. A little more than one year earlier,
                              Wallace had concluded occasionally strained correspondence with the
                              principal coordinator of historical markers for the Shiloh National
                              Military Park Commission over the proper text to describe the march of
                              his division on the first day of that battle with an assertion that
                              Grant in his Personal Memoirs "wrote the
                              exoneration for which I and my descendants can never be sufficiently
                              gratified." Lew Wallace to David W. Reed, February 20, 1902,
                              reel 13, Lew Wallace Collection.
                    
                    
                    
                         Letter from Lew Wallace to Brigadier General William H. L.
                              Wallace, dated April 5, 1862 William Wallace's 1885
                              decision to share this letter with Ulysses S. Grant inspired the
                              former president to revise his remarks on Lew Wallace's
                              conduct during the first day of the battle of Shiloh. Isabel
                              Wallace, Life and Letters of General W. H. L.
                                   Wallace (
                                   Chicago
                              , 1909).
                    
                    
                    That Wallace nursed no grudge toward Grant, even before this modification
                         reached print, can be seen in at least two episodes unrelated to the Shiloh
                         affair. After reading an inaccurate report of Grant's death in
                         early April 1885, Wallace lamented to his wife that busy Americans
                         "will indulge in a paroxysm of grief lasting the whole of a
                         day"-woefully inadequate mourning given the deeds of the
                              deceased.71 (The sorrow and observances following
                         Grant's death, it must be said, proved Wallace's cynical
                         prediction wrong.) Wallace was truly saddened by Grant's suffering
                         and death. Second, Wallace responded generously to the plight of
                         Grant's sons, who scrambled for income following the demise of
                         Grant & Ward. Frederick Dent Grant and Jesse Root Grant Jr., the
                         oldest and youngest sons, respectively, had involved themselves in a
                         project to construct a railroad from 
                              Constantinople
                          to the Persian
                              Gulf. Money to finance a trip to Europe to explore
                         prospects came from Samuel Clemens's publishing firm, Charles L.
                         Webster & Company, which had published their father's
                         memoirs. Railroad magnate Leland Stanford provided advice. Wallace, who as
                         the recently displaced minister to 
                              Turkey
                          knew officials and conditions in that country, encouraged the
                         hopeful Jesse Grant, saying "the Sultan is anxious for the road to
                         be built." Wallace went so far as to return to 
                              Turkey
                          "as the representative of Eastern men on a business
                              mission."72 No one knew that Wallace was
                         acting for the Grants, which certainly was the most likely reason for the
                         trip. Even with such financial and ambassadorial backing, the Turkish
                         railroad plan fizzled in late 1885. But Wallace had extended himself to the
                         Grant family members when he easily could have let them fend for
                         themselves.
                    Lew Wallace wanted to perform great feats in his life, and he valued the high
                         regard of his contemporaries - particularly those with influence or power.
                         Wallace's persistence in pursuing these desires had taken him into
                         the army, and it had elevated him to a level of authority that brought him
                         into contact with men like Grant and Sherman. Yet the constancy of his
                         contacts with these luminaries - through the 
                              71Lewis Wallace to Susan E. Wallace, April
                                   7, 1885, reel 10, Lew Wallace Collection.
                              72Frederick Anderson, ed., Mark
                                        Twain's Notebooks &Journals (3 vols., 
                                        Berkeley
                                   , 
                                        
                                             Calif.
                                   , 1975), 3: 165, 170, 202; New York
                                        Times, October 20, December 9, 1885.
                         
                         inevitable ups and downs of any dynamic
                         relationship and amid the more particular complications brought on by his
                         actions at Shiloh - is striking. Wallace surely gained more than he lost
                         from maintaining his relationships with the two generals, and their advice
                         (or, at times, simple inaction) probably saved him from embarrassments or
                         missteps on more than one occasion. But the doggedness of his entreaties
                         demands explanation. Why did he continue to endure the potential
                         embarrassment and humiliation of seeking absolution from two men who seemed
                         so clearly hesitant to grant it?
                    The answer appears to be that not securing Grant's exoneration would
                         have been tantamount, for Wallace, to acknowledging that he possessed less
                         capacity, composure, or courage than his commander or other successful
                         generals - including Sherman. Such an admission would have run contrary
                         both to Wallace's self-perception and to his ideal of manhood.
                         With Wallace's inner drive had come a sensitivity, a tendency to
                         let slights leave him disheartened and troubled. His persistence in seeking
                         to clear the record on Shiloh attests to that fact. Yet rather than let
                         this character flaw lead to self-pity, Wallace continually rallied from his
                         low points. His military, political, and literary accomplishments will
                         forever mark him as a notable figure of his age and will outweigh, in the
                         balance of history, any doubt over the actions he took beside the Tennessee River on
                         an April day in 1862.
                    Wallace outlived both Grant and Sherman, and could have the last word on his
                         famous contemporaries. In a manner that perhaps he himself did not fully
                         perceive, Wallace's accounts of the two men, published in his
                         autobiography, bear the same mix of magnanimity and criticism, of respect
                         and hurt, that had characterized his relationships with them during their
                         lives. Writing of Shiloh, Wallace uses the autobiography as an opportunity
                         to take Sherman to task for failing to keep watch for the Confederate
                         attack that came on April 6 and for putting the Union Army in grave peril.
                         His treatment of his great hero, Grant, is equally critical, emphasizing
                         the commanding general's failure to give full and clear
                         information on several occasions during the battle. Even his exculpatory
                         summary of the two men's actions seems to bear a critical edge,
                         albeit one wrapped safely in complimentary tones: That General Grant and his lieutenant, Sherman, were caught so
                              flagrantly may astonish their admirers; it should not, however, for in
                              the Shiloh period they were both at school, learning to 
                              
                                   Lew Wallace, c. 1900 Wallace, who outlived
                                        both Grant and Sherman, used his memoir as an opportunity to
                                        enjoy the last word on his famous contemporaries.
                                        Courtesy General Lew Wallace Study and Museum, 
                                             Crawfordsville
                                        , 
                                             Indiana
                                        
                               apply military principles acquired by them at the academy
                              long before; one of them, it may be further said, graduated after
                              Vicksburg, the other on the road to 
                                   Atlanta
                              .73
                    In the end, Wallace hoped that others would consider his own life in the same
                         way: that they would recognize him as a man who, for all his 
                              73Wallace, Lew Wallace, 1: 491.
                         
                         faults, possessed a large heart and a
                         fundamentally noble character. In his parting thoughts on Grant and
                         Sherman, he modeled the kind of tribute which he himself had sought so
                         persistently from others throughout his life.
               
               
               
                    The Charioteer and the Christ 
                         Ben-Hur in 
                              America
                          from the Gilded Age to the Culture Wars
                    HOWARD MILLER
                    Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ was published in 1880, the
                         second novel by Civil War general Lew Wallace. Millions of Americans in the
                         late Victorian period purchased the story of betrayal and revenge, and
                         attended pantomime, tableaux vivants, and stereopticon performances of it.
                         Through the first two decades of the twentieth century, as many as ten
                         million people on three continents attended performances of a staged
                         version of the novel. The 1925 film adaptation remains a landmark of the
                         silent cinema, while the 1959 screen version won a record number of Oscars
                         and influenced a generation of directors, musicians, and special effects
                         engineers. Today, the novel continues to resonate in American popular
                         culture. For all of its effect, few scholars have used Wallace's
                         novel and its subsequent incarnations as a lens through which to view
                         American culture.1 Yet, as I hope to demonstrate, the
                              "Ben-Hur
                         
                              Howard Miller is University Distinguished Teaching Associate
                                   Professor of History and Religious Studies at the University of
                                   Texas at Austin, where he has just introduced a new course on
                                   Jesus in American culture. He is preparing a book-length study of
                                   Lew Wallace's Ben-Hur: A Tale of the
                                        Christ as a cultural artifact in American history from
                                   its publication in 1880 to the present.
                              1The only prior effort to do this
                                   comprehensively is in the last two chapters of Robert E. and
                                   Katharine M. Morsberger's Lew Wallace:
                                        Militant Romantic (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1980), 453-96. But see also Blake Alexander,
                                   "Toga! Toga!" in Over the Edge:
                                        Remapping the American West, eds. Valerie J. Matsumoto
                                   and Blake Alexander (
                                        Berkeley
                                   , 
                                        
                                             Calif.
                                   , 1999), 32-49.
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (June 2008) C 2008, Trustees of
                                   Indiana University.
                         
                          tradition" can illustrate and
                         explain the peculiar way in which the 
                              United States
                          became "modern" in the century-and-a-quarter
                         since the book's publication.
                    We are accustomed to linking modernization to secularization.2 As a society becomes modern, scholars tell us, the sacred -
                         religion and its institutions - loses its traditional place at the center
                         of society. This notion does not, however, fit the case of the 
                              United States
                         , where religion has remained remarkably vital even as society
                         has become increasingly secular. Through a complex process of negotiation,
                         Americans in the late Victorian era and well into the twentieth century
                         embraced many aspects of modernity without rejecting religion. They
                         maintained their religious identities while feeling free to take part in
                         the emerging marketplace of American consumer culture.3
                         The growing gap that has since developed between those Americans who hold
                         to traditional religious beliefs and those who reject them outright has
                         been a key element of the culture wars that have dominated American society
                         over the past two decades. To understand that gap, scholars of
                         secularization insist, we need to focus on the different
                         ways in which societies become secular. Lew Wallace's great novel,
                         published just as this process was beginning in the 
                              U.S.
                         , can help us understand the peculiar way in which Americans
                         resolved, for a time, the tensions of secular and sacred.
                    I would like to suggest two reasons for the remarkable persistence of
                         religion as a vital force in American culture. First, religion in 
                              America
                          over the past century-and-a-half has developed a remarkable,
                         possibly unique, symbiotic relationship with popular culture. Second,
                         American Christianity has become dominated by Jesus to an extent that sets
                         it apart from the rest of Christianity.4 Living in a
                         democratic society uncontrolled by established churches and finally free of
                         Calvinist determinism, 
                              2Useful introductions to current
                                   understandings of secularization theory may be found in Pippa
                                   Norris and Ronald Englehart, Sacred and Secular:
                                        Religion and Politics Worldwide (
                                        Cambridge
                                   , 
                                        U.K.
                                   , 2004), 83-110; and Peter L. Berger, ed., The Desecularization of the World: Resurgent
                                        Religion and World Politics (
                                        Grand Rapids
                                   , 
                                        Mich.
                                   , 1999).
                              3See Bruce David Forbes and Jeffrey H.
                                   Mahan, eds., Religion and Popular Culture in 
                                             America
                                         (
                                        Berkeley
                                   , 
                                        
                                             Calif.
                                   , 2005); R. Laurence Moore, Selling God:
                                        American Religion in the Marketplace of Culture (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1995); Charles H. Lippy, Being
                                        Religious American Style: A History of Popular Religiosity
                                        in the 
                                             United
                                                  States
                                         (
                                        Westport
                                   , 
                                        Conn.
                                   , 1994); and David Morgan, The Sacred
                                        Gaze: Religious Visual Culture in Theory and Practice (
                                        Berkeley
                                   , 
                                        
                                             Calif.
                                   , 2005).
                              Stephen Prothero, American Jesus: How the Son of
                                        God Became a National Icon (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 2003); and Richard Wightman Fox, Jesus
                                        in 
                                             America
                                        : Personal Savior, Cultural Hero, National
                                        Obsession (
                                        San Francisco
                                   ,
                                        
                                             Calif.
                                   , 2004). 
                         
                         American Christians found in Jesus a
                         God who was a virtual pantheon in himself, one who could be many things to
                         many people. And they did all this just as scholars embarked on
                         "the quest for the historical Jesus" - a person whose
                         life and ministry they could actually study and know.
                    Lew Wallace wrote Ben-Hur just as this personalized view of
                         Jesus began to gain popular and scholarly favor in the 
                              United States
                         . He originally planned a short piece on the role of the Magi
                         in the Nativity, but then made an extraordinary change of plans: he would
                         make Jesus a character in a work of fiction.5 To effect
                         this change, Wallace intertwined the human experiences of the incarnate God
                         with the daily life of the fictional Judah Ben-Hur, an enslaved
                         prince-turned-charioteer. Wallace shaped his novel around their two
                         stories, beginning when they were boys and moving gradually to the
                         book's climax at the cross on Golgotha. In Wallace's
                         telling, the two first meet when Jesus gives the young Judah water to drink
                         as his slave caravan stops in 
                              Nazareth
                          on its way to the sea. Judah never forgets the kind act or the
                         face of the one who performed it. He survives his slavery to become the
                         greatest charioteer in 
                              Rome
                         , and defeats the young aristocrat Messala in the race that
                         lies at the heart of the novel. Seeking his mother and sister, who have
                         contracted leprosy as a result of their imprisonment in Messala's
                         infected jail cell, Judah encounters Jesus for a second time. Judah becomes
                         a follower of the Nazarene, hoping him to be the promised leader who will
                         overthrow the Romans and then rule 
                              Israel
                          as an earthly king. But after Jesus miraculously heals his
                         mother and sister, Judah realizes that Jesus is to be a spiritual savior
                         for all mankind, not a temporal ruler of the Jews alone, and attends the
                         Nazarene's death on the cross.
                    Within twenty years of publication, Ben-Hur: A Tale of the
                              Christ stood second only to the Bible as the best-selling book in 
                              America
                         . It might be argued that if Harriet Beecher Stowe's
                              Uncle Tom's Cabin (1852) had helped to
                         divide the Union in the 1850s, Wallace's Ben-Hur
                         helped to reunite the nation in the years following Reconstruction. The
                         novel resonated with some of the most significant issues in late Victorian
                         culture: gender and family; slavery and freedom; ethnicity and empire; and
                         nationhood and citizenship - all of which emerge from the crucial 
                              5In one of the earliest efforts to present
                                   Jesus as the center of a work of fiction, the Reverend J. H.
                                   Ingraham describes the person and ministry of Jesus through a
                                   series of letters from a young girl visiting 
                                        Jerusalem
                                    to her father, back home in 
                                        Alexandria
                                   . J. H. Ingraham, The Prince of the
                                        House of David (
                                        Chicago
                                   , 1855).
                         
                         
                         
                              Lew Wallace writing under his favorite beech tree, 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   , c. 1900 Wallace returned home to 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                    as often as he could to rest and write. It was there
                                   that he began the manuscript of Ben-Hur.
                                   Courtesy General Lew Wallace Study and Museum, 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   
                          relationship of Wallace's two protagonists: one of them
                         exemplifying action, striving, and revenge; the other absolute, sacrificial
                         love and redemption.6 The combination of their stories
                         proved, for more than a century, irresistible.
                    Born in the same year in vastly different circumstances, both Judah and Jesus
                         combine masculinity and femininity in ways that challenge any simple
                         notions about Victorian ideas of gender.7 When we first
                         meet 
                              60n the popularity of the novel see Lee
                                   Scott Thiesen, "'My God, Did I Set All of This
                                   in Motion?' General Lew Wallace and Ben-Hur," Journal of Popular
                                        Culture, 18 (February 1984), 33-41.
                              7The best introduction to the study of
                                   masculinity in American culture remains Gail Bederman, Manliness & Civilization: A Cultural
                                        History of Gender and Race in the 
                                             United
                                                  States
                                        , 1880-1917 (
                                        Chicago
                                   , 1995). But see also the more comprehensive analysis
                                   in Michael Kimmel, Manhood in 
                                             America
                                        : A Cultural History (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1996); and E. Anthony Rotundo, American Manhood: Transformations in Masculinity from the
                                        Revolution to the Modern Era (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1993). Especially helpful for understanding Wallace
                                   and his novel is Susan Curtis, "The Son of Man and God
                                   the Father: The Social Gospel and Victorian
                                   Masculinity," in Meanings for Manhood:
                                        Constructions of Masculinity in Victorian 
                                             America
                                        , eds. Mark C. Carnes and Clyde Griffen (
                                        Chicago
                                   , 1990), 67-78; and Shaun C. Lighty, "The
                                   Fall and Rise of Lew Wallace: Gaining Legitimacy Through Popular
                                   Culture" MA thesis, Miami University, Miami, 
                                        Ohio
                                   , 2005.
                         
                         Judah, he is a sensitive boy of
                         seventeen, described as more beautiful than handsome - especially in
                         contrast to the slightly older and more traditionally masculine Messala.
                         The young Jew's father has been dead for ten years, and he is
                         surrounded by powerful female figures: his mother and sister and his nurse,
                         Amrah. But when Judah is betrayed by Messala and condemned to a life of
                         slavery, he quickly develops the masculine attributes - hardness,
                         discipline, determination, and cunning - that will enable him ultimately to
                         triumph over Messala in the great chariot race. That race - which takes up
                         three chapters of the novel - encapsulates the male characteristics most
                         valued by the "strenuous age" in which Wallace wrote his
                         novel: Out flew the many-folded lash in his hand;
                              over the backs of the startled steeds it writhed and hissed and hissed
                              and writhed again and again; and though it fell not, there were both
                              sting and menace in its quick report; and as the man passed thus from
                              quiet to resistless action, his face suffused, his eyes gleaming,
                              along the reins he seemed to flash his will; and instantly not one,
                              but the four as one, answered with a leap that landed them along the
                              Roman's car.8
                    Wallace's Jesus, too, is a complicated combination of feminine and
                         masculine. Jesus appears only at the beginning and the end of the novel,
                         and he says almost nothing. Yet Wallace describes Jesus's physical
                         appearance and inner thoughts in great detail throughout the book. Like
                         Judah, he is more beautiful than handsome. He has chestnut hair and long
                         lashes over deep blue eyes - looks that will cause Iras, the evil daughter
                         of the magus Balthasar, to deride him as "a man with the face and
                         hair of a woman."9 Wallace's Jesus is
                         "the man of sorrows" of Isaiah 53:3, one
                         "despised and rejected of men ... and acquainted with
                         grief." He is resigned to his fate, weighed down by the sinfulness
                         of the race for which he is to die.
                    
                         8Lew Wallace, Ben-Hur: A Tale of the
                                   Christ (
                                   Oxford
                              , 
                                   U.K.
                              , 1998), 348-49.
                         9Ibid., 479.
                    
                    
                    Although Jesus here appears deeply melancholic, he is also supremely
                         confident and in total control of all he encounters, even his trial and
                         execution. Jesus dies the death of the Victorian hero, and Judah is there
                         to see it: The face then plainly seen by Ben-Hur,
                              bruised and black with blood and dust as it was, lighted nevertheless
                              with a sudden glow; the eyes opened wide, and fixed upon some One
                              visible to them alone in the far heavens; and there were content and
                              relief, even triumph, in the shout the victim gave. 'It is
                              finished! It is finished!' So a hero, dying in the doing a
                              great deed, celebrates his success with a last cheer.10 The sorrowful, feminine Jesus, becomes, finally,
                         the triumphant Christ.
                    The intertwined stories of Jesus and Judah helped to ensure the
                         novel's cultural vitality for a century. But at the center of Ben-Hur's abiding attraction, of course, is the
                         great race. Americans responded to Wallace's chariot race scene as
                         they had reacted to very few literary scenes. Judah Ben-Hur at the reins of
                         a chariot becomes the epitome of the heroic action figure, an embodiment of
                         the time in which the novel appeared. A Ben-Hur -
                         inspired chariot race preceded the 1904 Rose Bowl game, while Ben-Hur
                         products began to appear throughout the American marketplace. The Royal
                         Milling Company of 
                              Minneapolis
                          advertised its Ben-Hur Flour with an image of Judah and his
                         horses churning up dust in the Roman arena above the declaration that
                         "Ben-Hur Flour is in the race to win your favor."11 Wallace usually took great pains to protect the
                         text of his best-selling novel, but he appears not to have minded the
                         energy and creativity with which American entrepreneurs hurried his
                         charioteer into the sales arena.
                    Wallace's Christ narrative had a different sort of appeal, one that
                         attracted readers not through its commercial potential, but by virtue of
                         the irenic, non-sectarian way in which he told his "tale of the
                         Christ." The three Wise Men who appear in the novel's
                         opening pages each reject fanaticism, sectarianism, and bigotry in favor of
                         a shared belief in the 
                              10Ibid., 513.
                              11Harper's
                                        Magazine, July 1903.
                         
                         
                         
                              Advertisement for Ben-Hur Flour, 1903 Competing
                                   for consumers' loyalty, manufacturers like the Royal
                                   Milling Company of 
                                        Minneapolis
                                    used images of Wallace's charioteer, Judah
                                   Ben-Hur, to market their products.
                                   Harpers Magazine Advertiser, September 1903
                         
                         One True God. Judah's
                         conversion, which begins at the well in 
                              Nazareth
                         , proceeds slowly and cautiously; the accounts that he offers
                         ofJesus's miraculous powers are not based on emotion or faith;
                         they are simply factual, almost clinical reports of what he has repeatedly
                         observed with his own eyes. His conversion is not complete until he has
                         followed Jesus to Calvary, where he hears the Son of God talk to his
                         Father. It is only then that Judah becomes "conscious of a change
                         in his feelings" and becomes able to imagine "something
                         better than the best of his life"- something that will lead to
                         "perhaps another life purer than this one."12 Wallace himself claimed to have been converted to belief not
                         by a single dramatic life-changing experience with divinity, but by
                         sustained intellectual engagement with the life of Jesus as he wove it into
                         his own "tale of the Christ." Having remained virtually
                         untouched by the evangelical Protestantism that affected so many Americans
                         of his time, he undertook a thorough study of the Bible and the Holy Land
                         as he began to develop his manuscript. That study led him to become a
                         believer in God and Christ, not under the influence of any church or
                         ministry, but through a faith in the incarnation of his Wise Men's
                         One True God.
                    Readers of Ben-Hur quickly placed it alongside other books
                         of the American Christian canon: Joseph Smith's Book
                              of Mormon and Mary Baker Eddy's Science and
                              Health with Keys to the Scriptures (1875). Just as thousands of
                         Americans who had read the Book of Mormon testified that
                         they knew that it was true, and just as others read Eddy's book
                         alongside the Bible in their quest for true mental and physical health, so
                         many also testified that Wallace's novel made the
                         gospels' account of the life and ministry of Jesus even more
                         believable. Wallace described the actual physical and cultural environment
                         around his fictional character, including the "towns and villages
                         ... the birds, animals, vegetation, and seasons of the Holy
                              Land."13 His confidence in the fidelity
                         of his description helps to explain Wallace's audacity in actually
                         inserting Judah into one of the most important scenes of the gospels. The
                         Gospel of Mark tells us that a young follower of Jesus ran away from the
                         Garden of Gethsemane naked when the unfriendly mob trying to catch
                         Jesus's 
                              12In 1893 Wallace published an essay
                                   explaining how he wrote the novel, which he then reprinted in his
                                   autobiography. Lew Wallace, "How I Came to Write
                                   Ben-Hur," The Youth's
                                        Companion, February 2, 1893; reprinted in Lew Wallace,
                                        An Autobiography (2 vols., 
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1969), 2: 926-37.
                              13Wallace, Lew Wallace, 2:
                                   932.
                         
                         followers snatched away his clothes. In
                              Ben-Hur, that young man is Judah. Wallace's
                         skill in creating a scene gave his novel its persuasive power. For millions
                         of Americans, Judah became a living being - and if the charioteer lived, so
                         too must have the Christ.14
                    Wallace's novel, with its theme of conversion, became itself an
                         instrument of conversion. Ministers who might otherwise preach against the
                         power of the novel to tempt and corrupt made an exception for
                         Wallace's "Tale of the Christ" and recommended
                         that it be read both at home and in Sunday Schools. And many wrote to the
                         general to tell him that they had been converted to belief by reading his
                         work. One such convert was George R. Parrish, a young resident of the 
                              Kewanee
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         , YMCA. Writing on New Year's Day, 1887, he confessed
                         to Wallace that he had been "a drunkard, given up by every one as
                         bound to come to a bad end." He "had no future to hope
                         for, no past but of which I was ashamed." Although his mother and
                         the girl he loved were praying for him, he "had no faith in
                         prayer." And then a copy of Ben-Hur had come
                         into his hands. It "seemed to bring Christ home to me as nothing
                         else could - he became mine, and before the week ended, resting on his
                         strength, I stood up again in this community and was a man." He
                         had now, he told Wallace, dedicated himself to Jesus's service.15 Others were inspired by reading the novel to become
                         foreign missionaries, and some of those were among the first to translate
                              Ben-Hur into other languages.16
                    Through the first forty years of its existence, Wallace's novel took
                         up a unique position between the sacred and the secular. Even as pastors
                         recommended Ben-Hur as family reading and used its
                         lessons as a conversion tool, playwrights and stage producers urged the
                         general to authorize a stage production. Despite the liberties that he
                         himself had taken in describing Jesus in the novel, Wallace insisted that a
                         mere mortal 
                              14One can see Wallace's delight
                                   with his idea in his annotations of his personal copy of
                                   Cunningham Geike's The Life and Words of
                                        Christ (2 vols., 
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1877), 2: 513. For elaborations on the
                                   authenticating power of Wallace's novel see Paul C.
                                   Gutjahr, An American Bible: A History of the Good
                                        Book in the 
                                             United
                                                  States
                                        , 1777-1880 (
                                        Stanford
                                   , 
                                        
                                             Calif.
                                   , 1999), 166-173; and Candy Gunther Brown, The Word in the World: Evangelical Writing,
                                        Publishing, and Reading in 
                                             America
                                        , 1789-1880 (
                                        Chapel Hill
                                   , 
                                        N.C.
                                   , 2004), 46-78. Both of these works culminate in
                                   1880, in part because of the publication of Ben-Hur.
                              15George R. Parrish to Lew Wallace, January
                                   1, 1887, Wallace MSS II, box 2, (Lilly Library, Indiana
                                   University, 
                                        Bloomington
                                   ).
                              16Morsberger and Morsberger, Lew Wallace, 447-52.
                         
                         could not represent the Savior on the
                         stage. Leading Broadway impresarios Marc Klaw and Abraham Erlanger hit upon
                         the idea of having Jesus appear only once at the end of the play - as a
                         dazzling phosphorescent light behind a scrim. Their engineers also solved
                         the problem of staging the chariot race, devising a treadmill on which
                         horses ran in place, while a scrolling diorama of the Great Circus at 
                              Antioch
                          gave the impression of forward motion.17
                         Subsequent production tours added more and more chariots to the spectacle,
                         until ultimately five chariots raced with Messala and Judah.18
                    But neither the charioteer nor the Christ was central to the stage version of
                              Ben-Hur. The race takes up only a few moments of the
                         plot and the concluding miracle, the only appearance of the phosphorescent
                         Jesus, consumes even less time. Instead, the focus was on the mystery of
                         Judah's true identity - how does the young man emerge from slavery
                         a rich and powerful Roman citizen? Probably more attractive than the
                         character of either the charioteer or the Christ were the innovative and
                         spectacular engineering and lighting techniques used to bring both to the
                         stage. While there was much that was "spectacular" about
                         the novel, particularly Wallace's extended description of the
                         great sea battle and, of course, the chariot race itself, the dynamics of
                         spectacle became ever more powerful components of the story as it passed,
                         first, to the stage and eventually to the screen.
                    But the Christ narrative was not without power in the staged version of Ben-Hur. Ministers encouraged their congregants to view
                         the play - just as they had urged them to read the novel - setting aside
                         any reservations they might have about the morality of attending the
                         theater. Reviews of the staged version of Ben-Hur
                         regularly reported on the number of people in the audiences who appeared
                         not to be regular theatergoers - one review called the audience the
                         "assembled worshippers."19 For John
                         M. Handley, a 
                              New York
                                   City
                          minister who attended a performance, the audience became
                         "a worshipful congregation under the 
                              17See Richard L. Arnold, "The Great
                                   Race," Theatre Design and Technology,
                                   23 (December 1970), 13-15.
                              18Most of the manuscript material available
                                   for the stage play is in the Klaw and Erlanger Collection of the
                                   Schubert Archive in 
                                        New
                                             York City
                                    and in the Billy Rose Theatre Collection of the New
                                   York Public Library for the Performing Arts. William
                                   Young's script for the stage play is in David Mayer,
                                   ed., Playing Out the Empire:
                                        "Ben-Hur" and Other Toga Plays and Films,
                                        1883-1908: A Critical Anthology (
                                        Oxford
                                   , 
                                        U.K.
                                   , 1994), 189-290.
                              19Indianapolis Star,
                                   October 24, 1909. For a similar review, see Toledo
                                        Blade, December 10, 1907.
                         
                         influence of Christ's
                         story." Handley praised Wallace for the "immense
                         missionary work 'Ben-Hur' has done" and hoped
                         that "the author will receive the blessing of the Master of the
                         Harvest for the countless souls his labor has garnered."20 A recent study of urban Protestantism in the late
                         nineteenth and early twentieth centuries has noted the ways in which
                         "church became theater," as both sanctuaries and
                         preaching styles began to be influenced by theatrical productions.21 But it is also clear that, in the case of the
                         staged version of Ben-Hur, the theater could,
                         occasionally, become church.
                    Lew Wallace had resisted the pressure to allow a staged version of Ben-Hur for almost twenty years. He, and then his son
                         Henry, refused for an even longer time to approve a filmed adaptation of
                         the novel. Ever mindful of his late father's concern that anything
                         having to do with Ben-Hur be of the most elevated
                         quality, Henry probably simply waited for the industry to mature, both
                         technically and aesthetically. By the early 1920s, when Henry finally
                         became serious about approving a film version, the film industry was
                         seeking ways to escape its early association with inexpensive lower-class
                         entertainment while still attracting as many viewers as possible. The
                         combined stories of the charioteer and the Christ seemed ideal for the
                         industry's purposes, and in 1924 the Wallace estate sold the film
                         rights to Ben-Hur for $600,000 to a corporation created
                         solely for the purpose of purchasing those rights.22
                         The silent Ben-Hur was an epic undertaking. It was the
                         first production of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, a new company that gambled an
                         unprecedented four million dollars that Wallace's story would
                         establish its reputation for artistic integrity and attract viewers by the
                              millions.23 Both gambles paid off.
                    In contrast to the work of a growing number of writers who, perhaps following
                         Wallace's example, had begun to probe Jesus's
                         psychological makeup, the silent Ben-Hur presented Jesus
                         only in six scenes, all of 
                              20John M. Handley to Lew Wallace, January
                                   13, 1900, Wallace MSS II, box 2.
                              21See, for example, Jeanne Halgren Kilde,
                                        When Church Became Theatre: The Transformation
                                        of Evangelical Architecture and Worship in
                                        Nineteenth-Century 
                                             America
                                         (
                                        Oxford
                                   , 
                                        U.K.
                                   , 2002).
                              22For the sake of comparison, the rights to
                                   the wildly popular Gone With the Wind were sold
                                   in the late 1930s for a mere $50,000. The price paid for Ben-Hur is equivalent to $10 million
                                   today.
                              23The best discussion of the making of the
                                   silent film remains Kevin Brownlow, The
                                        Parade's Gone By.... (
                                        Berkeley
                                   , 
                                        Calif.
                                   , 1968), 385-414.
                         
                         them, in effect, throwbacks to the late
                         nineteenth-century tradition of the tableau vivant.24
                         We see only parts of his body - usually a hand, never his face. When the
                         Roman prisoner caravan stops at the 
                              Nazareth
                          well for water, Jesus's hand and arm first saws wood
                         and then extends water to the exhausted Judah. Only at the triumphal entry
                         to 
                              Jerusalem
                          and on the Via Dolorosa does the film provide something
                         approaching a full view of Jesus, and both of those scenes are distance
                         shots that preclude a distinct view of the Savior's face.25
                    But of course a character need not appear constantly to be central to a film,
                         and the life and ministry of Jesus do, in fact, figure prominently in the
                         silent epic. Indeed, the film, while not the conversion tool that the novel
                         had been, still recentralizes Jesus. The Nativity and Passion sections that
                         begin and conclude the film are lengthy and powerful. Between those
                         sections, while the story of the house of Hur unfolds, characters debate
                         the nature of Jesus and his ministry. Still, the moguls of MGM steered
                         clear of any potential controversy. They avoided altogether the freighted
                         question of who killed Jesus - originally an important part of the novel.
                         They also tried to avoid antagonizing the Roman Catholic Church hierarchy,
                         which by the mid-1920s already led the effort to rein in the freewheeling
                         new film industry. The Nativity scenes are dominated by Betty
                         Bronson's portrayal of the Virgin. Her face and smile (in
                         conspicuous contrast to the elusive Jesus) here seem to possess
                         extraordinary powers over others. As in the novel, Mary appears to have an
                         extraordinary connection to God. She hears a voice from afar that guides
                         her to the cave where the Savior will be born. Finally, in the tradition of
                         the passion plays of the medieval Roman Catholic Church, the silent film
                         ends not with the Resurrection, but with the empty cross.
                    Nevertheless, the Christ narrative of the film did avoid identifying Jesus
                         and his mission with any specific religious tradition, stressing the
                         importance of the act of believing itself, not the specifics of any belief
                         system. At the 
                              Nazareth
                          well, Judah is not "converted" by
                         Jesus's kindness; 
                              24For a discussion of the emerging interest
                                   in Jesus's psychology, see "Manly
                                   Redeemer," in Prothero, American
                                   Jesus, 86-123; and G. Stanley Hall, Jesus the
                                        Christ in the Light of Psychology (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1924).
                              25For a sense of the care taken in composing
                                   the sequences in which Jesus is more
                                   "suggested" than depicted see Katharine
                                   Hilliker and H. H. Caldwell, "Suggested Bible
                                   Sequences," October 6, 1925, MGM Collection, folder 13
                                   (Cinema-TV Library, University of Southern California, 
                                        Los Angeles
                                   ).
                         
                          he is, instead,
                         "strengthened" to fight "for the King."
                         On the Via Dolorosa Judah hears the voice of the condemned man tell him to
                         put away his sword. There is here no mention of saving men's
                         souls, and no reference to repentance from sin. Those who would be healed
                         have only to believe that Jesus can heal them, not
                         understand why he can work such miracles. In the final
                         scene Judah stands with his healed mother and sister on their rooftop and
                         looks out over the city to Calvary, with its three empty crosses. He
                         assures the women simply that "He is not dead. He will live
                         forever in the hearts of men" - far from the orthodox
                         understanding of the meaning of that empty cross.
                    The figure of the charioteer is similarly undeveloped in the film, and is
                         problematically portrayed by Mexican actor Ramon Novarro - a limited actor,
                         physically unsuited for the role of the heroic charioteer. Slightly built,
                         lightly muscled, and too young in appearance, he never quite looks the part
                         of "the greatest athlete of his day," as one of the
                         intertitles proclaims him at one point. As one fan, writing to Photoplay shortly after the film's casting became
                         public, pointedly complained: "It will be a crime against filmdom
                         and the memory of general Lew Wallace if Ramon Novarro is allowed to play
                         Ben-Hur. Believe me, I cannot visualize Novarro struggling to fit his small
                         feet into the huge sandals of Ben-Hur."26
                    
                    Whatever Novarro's shortcomings in the title role, the silent Ben-Hur ultimately fails to adequately develop and bring
                         together the stories of the charioteer and the Christ with the purpose and
                         the power that had contributed so mightily to the success of
                         Wallace's novel. How to account, then, for the film's
                         undeniable box-office success? The answer lies in its successful
                         development of the technical innovations and epic scale that had already
                         become part of the Ben-Hur tradition.
                    Individually colorized scenes, such as the tableau vivant of the Madonna and
                         the Christ child at the manger, enhanced the visual impact of the film. The
                         brilliant star that explodes spectacularly over 
                              Bethlehem
                          drew on cinematic artistry to, in effect, update of the shaft
                         of light that had represented Jesus in the stage version of the novel. We
                         see the miraculous healing of the lepers through a camera from which the
                              
                              26Photoplay, January 25,
                                   1925. Novarro was also well-known as a not-so-closeted
                                   homosexual. See especially "Rebellion in 
                                        Italy
                                    (1924-1925)," in Alan R. Ellenberger, Ramon Novarro (
                                        Jefferson
                                   , 
                                        N.C.
                                   , 1999), 51-64.
                         
                         
                         
                              Ramon Novarro as Judah Ben-Hur, 1925 Novarro portrayed Ben-Hur
                                   in the first silent version of Wallace's novel. His
                                   "too young, effeminate" looks disappointed some
                                   viewers. Courtesy Lilly Library Indiana University
                                   Bloomington
                          director removes one lens after another, simulating the erasure
                         of the scars of leprosy.27
                    
                         27This technique was used, in reverse, to film
                                   Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, dir. Rouben Mamoulian
                              (Paramount, 1931). See also David J. Skal, The Monster
                                   Show: A Cultural History of Horror (
                                   New
                                        York
                              , 1993), 142.
                    
                    
                    The most effective dramatic innovations in the silent Ben-Hur involved sheer size and spectacle. The 
                              Jerusalem
                          sets were enormous, as were the crowds that ebbed and flowed
                         through and around them. Those crowds reappeared throughout the film,
                         reflecting Niblo's skill (second only to D.W. Griffith) at moving
                         masses of people effectively in front of cameras. Thousands of extras
                         appeared in the chariot race scene, which Niblo filmed in a studio
                         constructed as a colossal mock-up of the Great Circus at 
                              Antioch
                         . Set designers created models of additional tiers of seats
                         filled with model figures that could be moved to simulate cheering;
                         consequently, the tumultuous throng appeared to number in the tens of
                         thousands. Niblo used an unprecedented forty-two cameras and placed them
                         over and under the track. The effect is a nine-minute race of breathtaking
                         speed, intensity, danger, and excitement that may be the most effective
                         rendering of the great contest in the entire Ben-Hur
                         tradition.
                    Although the film subtly centralized Jesus in the plot of Ben-Hur, marketers and audiences focused on Judah. In a decade
                         in which film actors and actresses began to be known as
                         "stars," and were increasingly idealized - and idolized -
                         by "fans," much advertising focused not on the story of
                         Wallace's novel, but on the man who played the charioteer. In
                         "celebrity product endorsement" campaigns that mark an
                         important development in the advertising industry in the 'teens
                         and 'twenties, Novarro - sometimes in Ben-Hur costume - repeatedly
                         praised the virtues of a variety of products. The Andrew Jergens Company of 
                              Cincinnati
                         , for one, developed a Ben-Hur line of toiletries. In one 1926
                         ad, Novarro, dressed as Judah, urges American females to try Ben-Hur
                         perfume. "Perfume is not for men," says the young man,
                         "but we must admit its seductive sway when combined with the
                         beauty of women." Carmel Myers (Iras) and May McAvoy (Esther) join
                         Novarro in the ad to extol the "delicate,"
                         "exquisite," and "distinctive,"
                         qualities of Ben-Hur perfume.28
                    Even as it was being sold in the marketplace, the silent Ben-Hur continued the process, begun by the stage play, whereby
                         Wallace's archaic tale of the first century ironically enabled
                         Christian Americans to embrace yet another form of popular entertainment
                         that many of them had originally resisted, secure in the assurance that the
                         entertainment 
                              28Photoplay, April 11,
                                   1926.
                         
                         was all in the name of a higher cause.
                         Although the film is limited in its handling of Wallace's Christ
                         narrative, its reverential tone and high artistic standards caused
                         virtually all religious leaders to endorse it. Reviews noted that the film
                         "preaches a powerful Lenten sermon," and that it was
                         "written with a purpose but without doubt in service of a higher
                              purpose."29 In 1927, two years after the
                         silent Ben-Hur brought Wallace's novel to the
                         screen, Cecil B. De Mille made The King of Kings, the
                         first full-scale cinematic treatment of the life of Christ. Perhaps
                         encouraged by the Ben-Hur legacy, De Mille felt
                         comfortable in introducing that film with an explicitly evangelical
                         prologue that forthrightly dedicated it to spreading the Christian
                              gospel.30
                    It would be another generation before this type of filmmaking occurred again.
                         In the 1950s, with television increasing in popularity, and Congress
                         investigating American loyalty, studios responded with a succession of
                         biblical epics that not only seemed safe in a dangerous time but also
                         capitalized on the revival of evangelical religion that accompanied the Red
                         Scare and the Cold War. In 1953 Twentieth Century Fox introduced The Robe, a movie based on a popular novel that also
                         told "the tale of the Christ" in tandem with the story of
                         men and women dramatically affected by the life and ministry of Jesus. In
                         the same year, the men at MGM dusted off Ben-Hur.31
                    Director William Wyler's artistic incarnation of the novel developed
                         and combined the charioteer and Christ narratives of Ben-Hur as purposefully and powerfully as had Lew Wallace.32 Wyler cast as the charioteer Charlton Heston, a man
                         already identified as an epic hero from his performance as Moses in De
                         Mille's The Ten Commandments.33
                         
                              29Boston Telegram,
                                   February 23 and 20, 1926; and "Theatrical Scrapbooks,
                                   1899-1926," box T- Vim 2002-001, Billy Rose Theatre
                                   Collection (New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, 
                                        New
                                             York
                                   ).
                              30De Mille even published a brief essay
                                   defending the use of film as an instrument of Christian
                                   evangelism. Cecil B. De Mille, "The Screen as a
                                   Religious Teacher: How the Much-Discussed Filming of The King of Kings, the New Religious Drama, Was
                                   Produced with Reverence and Accuracy," Theatre, June 1927, 45-76.
                              31For a creative essay on the cultural
                                   context of the 1959 film see Melani McAlister, Epic
                                        Encounters: Culture, Media, and 
                                             U.S.
                                         Interests in the Middle East, 1945-2000 (
                                        Berkeley
                                   , 
                                        
                                             Calif.
                                   , 2001), 18-20, 61-67.
                              32The standard biography of Wyler remains
                                   Axel Madsen, William Wyler (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1973).
                              33See Charlton Heston, In the
                                        Arena: An Autobiography (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1995); and Heston, The
                                        Actor's Life: Journals 1956-1976 (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1976).
                         
                         At thirty-five and well over six feet
                         tall, Heston brought to the role none of the unformed boyishness of
                         Wallace's seventeen-year-old hero. By selecting the muscular,
                         athletic Heston to play Judah Ben-Hur, Wyler was able to make the tale of
                         the charioteer much more than the coming-of-age saga of the novel. Heston
                         plays Judah as the epitome of mature, solid, unambiguous masculinity,
                         besting Messala in a friendly javelin-throwing contest before the betrayal
                         and beating the Tribune Quintus Arrius in a physical contest of wills at
                         sea. And, of course, all of that physical strength, athletic prowess, and
                         absolute resolve is on full display in the chariot race.
                    Wyler does not show Jesus's face in the film, but uses characters
                         around him as evangelists to bring the charioteer to belief. He reveals the
                         faces of others as they react to seeing Jesus: Esther as
                         she absorbs the message of the Prince of Peace; Balthasar as the Magus
                         becomes convinced that Jesus is the Son of God; the Roman decurion at the
                         well in 
                              Nazareth
                          transformed by his confrontation with the carpenter's
                         son; and, in three crucial encounters, the face of Judah himself.
                         Throughout, Jesus's presence is signified by the swelling
                         "Jesus theme" of Miklos Rozsa's magnificent
                         score, as well as by recurrent images of water - as falling rain, drawn
                         from a well, flowing in a stream.34
                    In the final scenes of the film, Wyler brings together the stories of the
                         charioteer and the Christ with an effectiveness and power that perhaps even
                         surpasses Wallace's achievement in the novel. Those scenes show
                         Judah finally being convinced by the witness of Balthasar and Esther, going
                         to the lepers' caves, rescuing his leprous mother and sister, and
                         taking them to Jesus, who has by now been condemned to death. As they watch
                         Jesus bear his cross up the Via Dolorosa, the women, forgetting their own
                         misery, call out for others to come to the aid of the Nazarene. Judah,
                         recognizing Jesus as the man who gave him water at the well at 
                              Nazareth
                         , rushes to do the same for the condemned man. The women, now
                         cured of their fears of death, seek refuge with Esther in a cave from the
                         storm occasioned by Jesus's execution. There, through an
                         astounding series of quick camera cuts, we see them writhe in physical pain
                         as flashes of lightning reveal both their agony and the ghostly body of the
                         dead Jesus on the cross. By the light of those flashes, Esther looks 
                              34See Miklos Rozsa, Double
                                        Life (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1982), 161-95; and "Miklos
                                   Rozsa," in American Film Music, eds.
                                   William Darby and Jack Du Bois (
                                        Jefferson
                                   , 
                                        N.C.
                                   , 1990), 307-344.
                         
                         at Miriam's hands and
                         discovers that they are free of disease. As the amazed women hold up their
                         restored hands and flex their fingers, a final flash illuminates the
                         fingers of Jesus's impaled hand stretching towards the heavens.
                         This remarkable scene is perhaps the most effective in the entire Ben-Hur tradition in bringing together the charioteer
                         and Christ narratives.
                    Wyler was able to tell Wallace's tale of Judah and Jesus without
                         having the chariot race overwhelm all other aspects of the story. But the
                         great race, as realized by Andrew Marton's second unit and Yakima
                         Canutt's stunts, was, nevertheless, a stunning cinematic
                         incarnation of Wallace's thrilling chapters.35
                         Many consider it, even in the age of computer imaging, the greatest action
                         sequence in film history.36 It also became the focus of
                         the studio's massive advertising and public relations campaign for
                         the film - a conscious effort to reach a wide audience and to minimize any
                         tension between the charioteer and the Christ narratives in the Ben-Hur tradition.
                    MGM set up an international press office in 
                              New York
                                   City
                         ; for more than a year before the film's premiere on
                         November 14, 1959, the studio issued hundreds of releases, intended to
                         create and sustain interest in the film. The office's releases
                         were full of facts, legends, and human interest anecdotes surrounding what
                         could, by 1959, be called a Ben-Hur tradition. The studio
                         repeatedly assured the public that the mighty epic was intended for
                         everybody; its Exhibitor's Promotion Portfolio
                         included "instructions for the proper presentation" of
                              Ben-Hur to the widest audience possible: students of
                         all ages from both public and private schools, the YMCA and the YWCA, Boy
                         and Girl Scouts, service and fraternal organizations, and religious groups.
                         In the exhibitor's guide MGM presented its Ben-Hur not simply, not even primarily, as an action picture. It
                         was at once a love story and the story of the struggle for freedom. And,
                         most important, it was the story of people of different faiths working
                         together to give birth to a new faith: Jews and Arabs united to fight the
                         oppression of 
                              Rome
                          at the time of the birth of Christianity. The guide's
                              
                              35When Heston was interviewed by Michael
                                   Moore in 2002 for Bowling for Columbine, the
                                   charioteer chose to sit just in front of a large painting of him
                                   as Judah, dressed for the great race.
                              36For an excellent introduction to the
                                   ancient context of the Ben-Hur chariot race
                                   tradition, see Marcus Junkelmann, "On the Starting Line
                                   with Ben-Hur: Chariot-Racing in the Circus Maximus," in
                                   Eckart Koenhne and Cornelia Ewigleben, eds., Gladiators and Caesars: The Power of Spectacle in Ancient 
                                             Rome
                                         (
                                        Berkeley
                                   , 
                                        
                                             Calif.
                                   , 2000), 86-102.
                         
                         message was unrelentingly ecumenical -
                         even its front cover, where the subtitle of Wallace's novel has
                         been slightly, but significantly, altered from "Tale of the
                         Christ" to "A Tale of the People and the Times of the
                              Christ."37 There are no guilty Jews - or
                         Romans - here, simply the working out of God's plan for the
                         redemption of mankind. But the specific, and potentially divisive, elements
                         of that plan are absent. Balthasar and Esther preach an amorphous gospel,
                         according to which Jesus is sent by the One True God to replace hate with
                         love in the hearts of men. Judah begins the film as a model Jew; he leaves
                         it a convert to Christianity, "the tradition that was to be known
                         as brotherly love."38
                    Having devised innovative ways to market Ben-Hur itself,
                         MGM's marketing division then pioneered the kind of product tie-in
                         campaigns that accompany the marketing of today's blockbuster
                         action films. The studio licensed hundreds of companies to manufacture
                         products "for every room in the house and every member of the
                         family," and for all faiths, that would bear the Ben-Hur name and that would replicate significant moments in the
                         film, most especially the great chariot race. They included
                         "oriental" designs for clothing, household goods and
                         jewelry, food products, "paint-by-number" art sets, and
                         an amazing array of charioteer action figures.39 In
                         late 1959 and throughout 1960, as millions of Americans saw Ben-Hur, this product tie-in campaign and the promotional blitz
                         that attended it helped to create something altogether different from any
                         effort that preceded it: a film that combined unprecedented spectacle and
                         action with deep spirituality, the whole of which was then skillfully sold
                         in the marketplace to a wide general audience.
                    This, then, is the fully formed Ben-Hur tradition - a
                         negotiation among sacred and secular themes, calculated to reach the
                         largest number of potential viewers. From the novel's 1880
                         publication, through its 
                              37Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer
                                        Exhibitor's Promotion Portfolio (
                                        Los Angeles
                                   , 1959), in author's collection.
                              38Joseph Mersand and Jeanne Smith,
                                   "A Guide to the Discussion and Appreciation of the
                                   Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Production of Ben-Hur,
                                   Directed by William Wyler," Photoplay
                                        Studies, 24 (November 1959), 6. Mersand was the
                                   president of the National Council of Teachers of English. See
                                   also "Schools to Utilize Ben-Hur for
                                   Study Predicts President of National Council of Teachers of
                                   English," n.d., Ben-Hur Press
                                   Clippings Collection (Film and Media Library, Museum of Modern
                                   Art, 
                                        New
                                             York
                                   ).
                              39"Ben-Hur
                                   Commercial Tie-Ins," n.d.; "Eleven Theatres to
                                   Open Ben-Hur by Christmas With Ten Others Soon
                                   After. Promotion Plans Rolling," October 14, 1959, Ben-Hur Press Clippings Collection.
                         
                         stage adaptation, to the silent and
                         sound film productions of 1925 and 1959, the tradition took shape around
                         evolving interpretations of the relationship of the charioteer and the
                         Christ. But the Ben-Hur tradition has not remained
                         static. Wallace's interwoven narratives of Judah and Jesus have
                         resonated in subsequent films, some of them still directed at a mass market
                         now increasingly dominated by young males, and others aimed a new niche
                         market of conservative evangelical Christians, who are increasingly focused
                         on Jesus Christ.
                    The charioteer's story - and more specifically, the race itself -
                         has figured prominently in several mass-market films aimed at young male
                         viewers. Oliver Stone's Any Given Sunday (1999),
                         a tribute to NFL football, uses scenes from the 1959 version of Ben-Hur to drive home the gladiatorial image of
                         professional football players. Coach Tony D'Amato meets with a
                         prospective player in his home, while a television in the background plays
                         the famous chariot race. Referring to the film scene behind them, the coach
                         and player discuss football players as the new gladiators and debate the
                         meaning of this latter-day gladiatorial combat. For director Stone, Ben-Hur's legacy belongs exclusively to the
                         charioteer and to the competitive, aggressive male values he
                         exemplifies.
                    In the same year that Stone included the chariot race in his cinematic homage
                         to professional football, George Lucas used the first of his Star Wars prequels to honor the race. On several occasions Lucas
                         has said that the pod race in The Phantom Menace was
                         intended to honor the impact that the chariot race had on him as a boy.
                         Lucas's film combines explicit and intentional references to the
                         1959 version with other, perhaps less intentional, references to the
                         messianic images associated with the Christ. His charioteer, Anakin
                         Skywalker, is a precocious enslaved boy of nine who is a whiz with all
                         things mechanical and is the only human in the Outer Territory capable of
                         competing with galactic life forms in the dangerous sport of pod racing. He
                         defeats those competitors in a computer-generated pod race that echoes the
                         great race from the 1959 Ben-Hur. But Anakin also
                         functions in the film as something of a Christ figure. Both his mother and
                         the Jedi knight who discovers him sense that he may be the prophesied
                         "Chosen One," who will "return the balance to
                         the Force."40
                    
                         40The Phantom Menace, dir.
                              George Lucas (Twentieth Century Fox, 1999).
                    
                    
                    One year later, in 2000, Ridley Scott's Gladiator
                         not only provided a similar sacred-secular combination, but also echoed
                         much of the plot and the themes of the 1959 film. Gladiator, like Ben-Hur, is a story of
                         friendship, betrayal, revenge, and redemption. Like Lucas, Scott had been
                         dazzled as a boy by the chariot-race scene from the 1959 Ben-Hur; as an adult he had been equally impressed by the race
                         segment from the silent version of the novel.41 He
                         hoped to make a film that would live up to what he calls the
                         "challenge" of the Ben-Hur cinematic
                         tradition: the epic dimensions of the 1959 film but also the sensitive ways
                         in which Wyler and his technical crew were able to do justice to the
                         intimate aspects of the film and thereby prevent the epic from overwhelming
                         the human.
                    In his physical stature and in his acceptance of brutality, Scott's
                         gladiator is a variant of Wallace's charioteer, but he also
                         functions as a Christ figure. In the arena with the Emperor Commodus, the
                         gladiator becomes one who redeems by conquering evil and by dying for
                         "the glory that once was 
                              Rome
                         ." To that extent, in Scott's film the
                         charioteer becomes the Christ.42
                    As some of the best film directors at the turn of the twenty-first century
                         found ways to celebrate the charioteer narrative of Ben-Hur in action films intended for a mass market, a new market
                         of evangelical Christians eagerly adopted the Christ narrative of Ben-Hur as its own. In Ben-Hur's Christ narrative they found affirmation and
                         identity in a culture from which they felt increasingly alienated. The
                         first evidence of this development appeared in 2000, when James
                         Dobson's powerful Christian organization, Focus on the Family,
                         produced a radio dramatization of Ben-Hur that was
                         released on CD and marketed through the group's extensive mailing
                         lists and to the exploding number of bookstores that served the
                         nation's expanding evangelical Christian culture. 
                              41In the documentary made for the 2005 DVD
                                   Scott relates how Andrew Marton, the second unit director of the
                                   epic, came to the University of Southern California and dissected
                                   the race for Marton's film class. Gladiator, dir. Ridley Scott (Dreamworks,
                                   2005).
                              42In the "expanded"
                                   version of Gladiator, Christianity actually
                                   makes an appearance. In an ultimately deleted scene, Maximus,
                                   while being taken from one point in Proximoss camp to another,
                                   briefly glimpses a man with long hair and a beard, holding in his
                                   hand a small cross, with a fish sign on his tunic. The man, a
                                   dead ringer for Warner Sallmans iconic portrait of Jesus, is
                                   obviously an early Christian, and is either preaching to, or
                                   praying with, a small group of followers. Maximus gazes intently
                                   at the man and then is forced to hurry on by his guards.
                                   Ibid.
                         
                          The Focus on the Family dramatization
                         clearly was not intended for a mass audience but explicitly targeted the
                         growing market of evangelical teens.
                    At about the same time, Charlton Heston also produced an animated version of
                              Ben-Hur in which he both narrates and performs the
                         title role. By that time, this definitive charioteer had become one of the
                         nation's leading Christian entertainment entrepreneurs and a
                         spokesman for conservative Christians in the culture wars of the late
                         twentieth century. Like the Focus on the Family radio dramatization that
                         preceded it, Heston intended his animated Ben-Hur for an
                         evangelical Christian audience in general and for young people in
                         particular. It sanitizes the story by taking more liberties with the plot
                         than any other adaptation of the novel: Judah kills no one; the chariot
                         race is not very violent - there are no crashes, and Messala is not dragged
                         behind his horses. And even more so than in the Focus on the Family
                         version, Heston's adaptation is quite explicit and unapologetic
                         about its evangelical mission.
                    In 2003, the year in which the Heston animated version of Ben-Hur appeared, Penguin Putnam introduced a new edition of
                         Wallace's novel that was also intended for the evangelical niche
                         market. Timothy LaHaye, chosen to write the introduction to the new
                         edition, approaches it almost as a confession: Ben-Hur
                         "made me realize that fiction could be used to send a message that
                         is even more important than the story"- that it could attract not
                         just the niche market of evangelical Christians but also bear evangelical
                         witness to American mass culture.43
                    Even as LaHaye wrote, Mel Gibson was completing The Passion of
                              the Christ (2004). Gibson's enormously profitable film
                         did exactly what LaHaye urged: it took the message of the conservative
                         evangelical culture to the mass culture. Here is Christ as Braveheart-as
                         interpreted by Mel Gibson. Both of Gibson's heroes - William
                         Wallace and Jesus - exhibit stoic strength in the face of torture. When
                         molded in the image of Gibson and his own cinematic persona, the Christ
                         begins to resemble the charioteer.44
                    
                         43Lew Wallace, Ben-Hur: A Tale of
                                   the Christ, introduction by Tim LaHaye (
                                   New
                                        York
                              , 2003), xi. LaHaye is the co-author of the best selling
                                   Left Behind novels, a series about the events
                              surrounding the Rapture that captures the sense of persecution in much
                              of the conservative Christian counter culture.
                         44For a slightly different perspective on
                              Gibson's Jesus, see "The Passion of the
                                   Christ: Jesus as Action Figure," in Stephenson
                              Humphries-Brooks, Cinematic Savior: Hollywood's
                                   Making of the American Christ (
                                   Westport
                              , 
                                   Conn.
                              , 2006), 117-32.
                    
                    
                    Gibson's The Passion of the Christ successfully
                         negotiated the divide between the sacred and the secular as few cultural
                         phenomena in American history have: it appealed at once to a mass secular
                         audience and to a new niche market of evangelical Christians. There is no
                         evidence that Gibson was directly influenced by Ben-Hur,
                         but Lew Wallace's novel, and the subsequent adaptations of it,
                         played a major role in shaping the culture in which The
                              Passion of the Christ proved to be so powerful.
                         Wallace's "tale of the Christ," by weaving
                         Jesus's story through the lives of sympathetic mortals, made the
                         life of the Savior a legitimate subject for literary treatment. The stage
                         and screen adaptations of the novel that followed over the next
                         century-and-a-quarter proved to be important vehicles by which Americans
                         became accustomed to the appearance of Jesus, and other Christian
                         iconography, in secular markets, even when that marketplace, in our own
                         time, began to divide into sometimes competitive niches. The necessary
                         negotiations between the sacred and the secular that attended that process
                         can tell us much about the ways in which the American republic became
                         modern without rejecting religion.
               
               
               
                    Publishing Lew and Susan Wallace in the Twenty-first Century
                    THOMAS A. MASON, MARCIA R. CAUDELL, SUZANNE S. BELLAMY, AND RAY E.
                         BOOMHOWER
                    Lew Wallace's importance as a subject for serious historical
                         investigation does not rest on his having held high office or on his
                         accomplishments in a single discipline or field. Rather it derives from his
                         exceptional achievements in a wide range of endeavors during the years
                         between the Civil War and the Progressive Era. He served in the Civil War
                         as a colonel of the 11th Indiana, as a brigadier general, and then, to
                         great controversy, as a major general commanding the 3rd division of the
                         Army of the Tennessee at the battle of Shiloh. After the war, he wrote Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ, which Emelyn Eldredge
                         Story considered "the book of books of this age."
                         Published in 1880, the book is an 
                              Thomas A. Mason is project director of The Papers
                                        of Lew and Susan Wallace and an adjunct faculty member
                                   at Indiana University Purdue University, Indianapolis. Marcia R.
                                   Caudell is reference librarian at Indiana State University, 
                                        Terre Haute
                                   , and a former editorial assistant of The Papers of Lew and Susan Wallace. Suzanne S.
                                   Bellamy is a freelance researcher and writer, and a former
                                   attorney. She is a former assistant editor of Documentary Editing, the quarterly journal of the
                                   Association for Documentary Editing, and a former editorial
                                   assistant of The Papers of Lew and Susan
                                        Wallace. Ray E. Boomhower is senior editor at the
                                   Indiana Historical Society Press and author of The
                                        Sword and the Pen: The Life of Lew Wallace
                                   (2005).
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (June 2008) C 2008, Trustees of
                                   Indiana University.
                         
                          important document for the cultural
                         and intellectual history of late nineteenth-century 
                              America
                         .1
                    It is also significant that Wallace, as a writer, diplomat, and speaker,
                         enjoyed such high standing within the Republican Party and the nation. The
                         success of Ben-Hur and the public approval it received,
                         considerably enhanced his influence within the GOP. In fact, President
                         James A. Garfield decided to appoint him minister to the Ottoman Empire,
                         rather than charge d'affaires to 
                              Paraguay
                          and 
                              Bolivia
                         , after he read the book. Wallace was even able to exert
                         influence on the floor of the Republican National Convention in 1888, which
                         to his delight nominated his longtime friend Benjamin Harrison for the
                         presidency. His rapidly written campaign biography of Harrison helped to
                         achieve the Hoosier's victory.2
                    Lew Wallace's friendships with and access to prominent politicians,
                         presidents, and military leaders (which even a well-placed observer like
                         Henry Adams must have envied), and his active participation in, or close
                         observance of, key events and trends make him an ideal subject for
                         documentary treatment. Because his assembled papers accurately mirror his
                         experiences, and because his honesty and sensibilities united to produce a
                         valuable commentary, The Papers of Lew and Susan Wallace
                         documentary edition will serve as an enduring research collection for
                         scholars and researchers in several historical fields. Additionally,
                         Wallace's ability to speak meaningfully to the serious-minded
                         popular audience of the Civil War generation and to give expression to its
                         ideals, fears, and anxieties makes him a key figure for broad historical
                         investigations and reassessments of the postwar era or Gilded Age - thus it
                         seems certain that the publication of The Papers of Lew and
                              Susan
                         
                              1The most thorough, modern biography is
                                   Robert E. and Katharine M. Morsberger, Lew Wallace:
                                        Militant Romantic (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1980).
                              2In his diary for April 17, 1881, Garfield
                                   wrote of Ben-Hur: "The plot of the
                                   story is powerfully sketched and its tone is admirably sustained.
                                   I am inclined to send its author (Lew Wallace) to 
                                        Constantinople
                                   , where he may draw inspiration from the modern East
                                   for future literary work" (April 17). After finishing
                                   the book, he observed in his April 19 entry: "Wallace
                                   surprises me with his delicacy and penetration, as well as his
                                   breadth of culture. I think 
                                        Constantinople
                                    would give him opportunities for success, and I will
                                   try to give him that Mission." Harrison tried to
                                   convince Garfield to appoint Wallace secretary of war. Harry
                                   James Brown and Frederick D. Williams, eds., The
                                        Diary of James A. Garfield (4 vols., 
                                        East Lansing
                                   , 
                                        Mich.
                                   , 1967- 81), 4: 563 and 577-78; Harry J. Sievers, Benjamin Harrison (3 vols., 
                                        Chicago
                                   , 1952-68), 2: 194 and 368-71.
                         
                         Wallace will have
                         continuing effects on the interpretation and reinterpretation of late
                         nineteenth-century American culture.3
                    Susan Wallace was one of many women to enjoy her own career as a popular
                         writer in the late nineteenth century. This fact alone makes her papers
                         significant for women's history and the history of post-Civil War
                         popular culture, but since her life was closely tied to her
                         husband's, her correspondence and work also complement his. Her
                         letters to mutual friends often related anecdotes and inside accounts of
                         his official activities, while providing a valuable perspective on their
                         social and domestic life and circle of official and personal acquaintances.
                         This perspective is particularly important for the Wallaces'
                         periods in 
                              New
                                   Mexico
                          and 
                              Turkey
                         . Since most of Susan's letters to Lew were either
                         destroyed or lost, her letters to third parties frequently provide
                         information about him not found elsewhere - and his responses to her and
                         his other correspondents also serve to re-create her documentary record.
                         For these reasons, Susan Wallace's papers properly and usefully
                         belong in this comprehensive collected edition.
                    Lew and Susan Wallace were unusual, if not unique, among literary couples of
                         the Victorian era in that they were both published authors of fiction and
                         nonfiction. They encouraged each other's writing and work - a
                         welcome contrast to Nathaniel Hawthorne and Sophia Peabody, to pick one
                         example from that era.4 Susan Wallace encouraged other
                         writers, notably the sisters Caroline Virginia Krout and Mary Hannah Krout,
                         the latter a suffragist and widely published nonfiction author. Lew
                         Wallace's stepmother, Zerelda Wallace, was also a prominent
                         suffragist leader. After her husband died, Susan worked to bring his Autobiography (1906) to publication with Mary Hannah
                         Krout's assistance. Susan had long acted as an editor and critic
                         for Lew Wallace, and 
                                   Indiana
                               Authors and Their Books noted, "It has been
                         suggested that the literary taste of Mrs. Wallace was somewhat superior to
                         that of her 
                              3The need for a thorough, scholarly
                                   reassessment of the age was sounded by H. Wayne Morgan in his
                                   introduction to The Gilded Age: A Reappraisal (
                                        Syracuse
                                   , 
                                        N.Y.
                                   , 1963). See also Alan Peskin, "Why the
                                   Gilded Age?," Hayes Historical Journal: A
                                        Journal of the Gilded Age, 5 (Summer 1981), 5-6 and
                                   Charles W. Calhoun, "Benjamin Harrison, Centennial
                                   President: A Review Essay," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History, 84 (1988), 135-160.
                              4T. Walter Herbert, Dearest
                                        Beloved: The Hawthornes and the Making of the Middle-Class
                                        Family (
                                        Berkeley
                                   , 
                                        
                                             Calif.
                                   , 1993).
                         
                          illustrious husband and that his work
                         could have been improved, in style and structure, by even more of her
                         editing than it received."5
                    Thanks to funding from the Lilly Endowment in 1940, the Indiana Historical
                         Society purchased - from Lew Wallace Jr., Lew's surviving grandson
                         - the papers that were then at the Lew Wallace Study in 
                              Crawfordsville
                         . Those papers became the society's Lew Wallace
                         Collection. In 1952 the society published - again with support from the
                         Lilly Endowment - Dorothy Ritter Russo and Thelma Lois Sullivan's
                              Bibliographical Studies of Seven Authors of 
                                   Crawfordsville
                              , 
                                   Indiana
                              - including, among others, Lew and Susan Wallace. Bibliographical Studies is the indispensable starting
                         point for any investigation of the Wallaces' published literary
                              works.6
                    In 1984 Donald E. Thompson, the former librarian and archivist at Wabash
                         College, launched The Papers of Lew and Susan Wallace, a
                         documentary edition to be co-published by the Indiana Historical Society
                         Press and the Lilly Library. Originally intended to be a printed edition,
                              The Papers of Lew and Susan Wallace soon outstripped
                         the expectations of all who worked on the project. The society directed
                         resources to move the project forward. In 1985 the society's
                         Preservation Imaging Department filmed Series 1 (of a total of thirteen) of
                         the Lew Wallace Collection in sixteen microfilm rolls. C. M. Harris
                         collected copies of Wallace documents during research trips to the Library
                         of Congress, the National Archives, and many other repositories, and added
                         thousands of document copies to the Wallace editing project files.
                    After Thompson's death in 1992, the editing project moved from
                         Wabash College to the Indiana Historical Society in 
                              Indianapolis
                         . Paul Brockman reprocessed the society's Lew Wallace
                         Collection and created 
                              5R. E. Banta, comp., 
                                             Indiana
                                         Authors and Their Books (3 vols., 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                   , 
                                        Ind.
                                   , 1949-81), 1: 331. See also Dorothy Ritter Russo and
                                   Thelma Lois Sullivan, Bibliographical Studies of
                                        Seven Authors of 
                                             Crawfordsville
                                        , 
                                             Indiana
                                         (
                                        Indianapolis
                                   , 1952), 417-46.
                              6A member of the society's Library
                                   Committee from 1936 to 1954, Josiah Kirby Lilly Jr. was the
                                   moving spirit behind the acquisition of the papers and the
                                   publication of a series of bibliographical studies - not only of
                                   the Wallaces but also of such other 
                                        Indiana
                                    authors as James Whitcomb Riley and Newton Booth
                                   Tarkington. During the 1950s the Lilly Endowment also funded the
                                   processing by Martha Schaaf and others of the society's
                                   Lew Wallace Collection. That collection is primarily political
                                   and military. The literary manuscripts and correspondence - J. K.
                                   Lilly's focus of interest - were kept in a vault at
                                   Eagle's Crest, Lilly's lodge at what is now
                                   Eagle Creek Park northwest of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                   . Those literary manuscripts and correspondence were
                                   later moved to the Lilly Library, which opened in 1960 at Indiana
                                   University Bloomington.
                         
                          an item-level calendar. The National
                         Historical Publications and Records Commission endorsed The
                              Papers of Lew and Susan Wallace in 1993 and again in 2004.
                         Douglas E. Clanin joined the Wallace project staff as editor in 1999 and
                         discovered many more Wallace documents in repositories and newspapers.
                    The steady support of the Lilly Library led to a cooperative venture with the
                         IHS Press to produce a comprehensive collected edition. The cooperation of
                         B. Breon Mitchell, director; Saundra B. Taylor, curator of manuscripts; and
                         Cheryl Baumgart, manuscripts cataloger at the Lilly Library, helped to make
                         the project possible. In 2004 Taylor and Baumgart brought the Lilly
                         Library's collection of Wallace manuscripts to the society, whose
                         Preservation Imaging Department microfilmed this important collection.
                    Now nearing completion, The Papers of Lew and Susan Wallace
                         is a comprehensive collected edition. Series I includes 9,444 letters,
                         essays, speeches, military orders, and other categories of documents from
                         101 repositories in the 
                              United States
                          and other countries, notably the Public Record Office of
                         Northern Ireland in 
                              Belfast
                          and the Ottoman Archives in 
                              Istanbul
                         . Series II includes 43 large literary manuscripts and
                         fragments. Series III includes visual materials - 169 photographs,
                         portraits, drawings, and paintings. The IHS Press will publish the edition
                         in 49 microfilm rolls in 2008.
                    Since this edition represents the first scholarly presentation of the
                         Wallaces' papers, the press has carefully designed a CD-ROM guide
                         for the compilation. The first reel of the microfilm edition contains the
                         table of contents (providing summary description - in most cases, the
                         chronological span covered - of each reel of microfilm), the editorial
                         method statement, biographical essays, and other documents. Users may view
                         the documents in this edition on microfilm and locate them by means of
                         control files in the electronic finding aid (EFA) on the CD-ROM that
                         accompanies this edition. A database in Microsoft Access contains three
                         tables: EFA, Image, and Itinerary. The user may search and sort the EFA
                         table (Series I, Correspondence and Other Documents; and Series II,
                         Literary Manuscripts and Fragments) alphabetically by name of sender,
                         recipient, or repository; or chronologically by date of document. The user
                         may search and sort the Image table (Series III, Visual Materials)
                         alphabetically by medium, creator, title, or repository; or chronologically
                         by date of image. The Itinerary table provides 1,175 records of the
                         whereabouts of Lew and Susan Wallace, the date(s) they were in certain
                         locations, and the source of that information. The user may search and sort the Itinerary table
                         alphabetically by location or source of information, or chronologically by
                         date.
                    Several publications have resulted from researchers' use of the
                         collections, including a biography of Lew Wallace for young readers, a
                         biography of Susan Wallace, a study of Lew Wallace and the Civil War, and a
                         collection of letters between the Wallaces (edited by John Y. Simon). The
                         Indiana Historical Society Press looks forward to the projects that will
                         grow out of future research efforts.
               
               
               
                    REVIEWS
                    Abraham Lincoln Portrayed in the Collections of the Indiana
                              Historical Society Edited by Harold Holzer (
                              Indianapolis
                         : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006. Pp. ix, 253. Notes,
                         illustrations. $49.95.)
                    A $2.9-million grant from the Lilly Endowment enabled the Indiana Historical
                         Society to supplement its Abraham Lincoln holdings through three
                         significant purchases in 2003: the Jack Smith Lincoln Graphics Collection,
                         the Daniel R. Weinberg Lincoln Conspirators Collection 1865-1977, and the
                         Alexander Gardner Lincoln Glass Plate Negative (taken on November 8, 1863,
                         eleven days prior to the Gettysburg Address). The acquisition added more
                         than 1,100 prints, engravings, photographs, political cartoons,
                         manuscripts, printed materials, and statues to the society's
                         holdings. Harold Holzer's sumptuously illustrated catalog
                         describes these combined collections.
                    An acknowledged expert in Lincoln studies and nineteenth-century American
                         print culture, Holzer, in his preface, engages the reader by establishing a
                         personal relationship with collectors Jack Smith and Daniel Weinberg. The
                         introduction succinctly explicates how the mass marketing of graphic images
                         shaped the public perception of Lincoln. The reader will discover material
                         related to all aspects of Lincoln's life, from his boyhood to his
                         transcendence as an American icon. Motivated by profit, printmakers
                         produced images to satisfy both Lincoln supporters and detractors until
                         assassination focused attention on the glorification of the Great
                         Emancipator and Protector of the Union. Woven into this narrative are
                         examples from the Smith Collection, punctuated with full- and half-page
                         illustrations, and cross-referenced with catalog entry numbers to aid the
                         researcher.
                    The catalog is divided into five sections: the Smith Collection, the Weinberg
                         Collection, the Gardner Glass Plate Negative, Abraham Lincoln-Related
                         Pictures, and Abraham Lincoln-Related Manuscripts. Each 
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (June 2008) C 2008, Trustees of
                                   Indiana University.
                         
                         section has a scope and content note
                         that outlines the series within the collection - and in the case of the
                         Weinberg Collection and the Gardner Glass Plate Negative there is a
                         historical and/or biographical sketch as well. Entries in the first three
                         sections are arranged alphabetically by title. The final section,
                         Lincoln-Related Manuscripts, is a chronologically arranged finding aid with
                         a brief introductory note.
                    There are inconsistencies in the catalog entries - similar materials are
                         given slightly different titles than separate items that should be listed
                         together. The illustrations for the Smith Collection are identified first
                         by the collection/item number and secondly by title, but the entries are
                         arranged alphabetically by title and the identification numbers within each
                         series are not sequential. This creates a bit of confusion when matching
                         the illustration with its entry. The small variances of presentation
                         between sections mar the cohesiveness of the book, but do not hinder its
                         use or hamper the conveyance of information.
                    Overall, Abraham Lincoln Portrayed in the Collections of the
                              Indiana Historical Society is a beautifully produced book
                         suitable for coffeetable display with its 150 color and grayscale images.
                         As a research tool, it provides access to the society's Abraham
                         Lincoln collections in the same spirit of collector Jack Smith, who
                         "acquired not only to own, but also to share" (p.
                         viii).
                    CINDA ANN MAY is coordinator of Library Digital Initiatives and project
                         manager of the Wabash Valley Visions and Voices Digital Memory Project at
                         Indiana State University, 
                              Terre
                                   Haute
                         .
               
               
                    He Almost Changed the WorldThe Life and Times of Thomas
                              Riley Marshall By David J. Bennett (
                              Bloomington
                         , 
                              Ind.
                         : Authorhouse, 2007. Pp. xiii, 323. Bibliography, endnotes.
                         Paperbound, $19.95.)
                    Thomas Riley Marshall (1854-1925), the 28th U.S. vice president and the
                         fourth of five from 
                              Indiana
                         , has been largely ignored by biographers. David Bennett
                         deserves credit for following Marshall's life from cradle to
                         grave, but his book is disappointing in several respects.
                    First, the thesis suggested by Bennett's title - that Marshall
                         "almost changed the world" - is not substantiated by the
                         evidence nor is it the actual premise of the book. Marshall did serve two
                         full terms as Woodrow Wilson's vice president from 1913 to 1921,
                         and he was the first vice president
                         elected to consecutive terms since John C. Calhoun (1825-1832) as well as
                         the first since Daniel Tompkins (1817-1825) to do so with the same
                         president. Yet Marshall's vice presidential activities came
                         nowhere close to having the impact Bennett suggests.
                    To be sure, Marshall's tenure was unique in that for much of its
                         last two years he served as vice president to a disabled leader. Wilson,
                         who suffered one or more strokes in September and October of 1919, saw few
                         political figures and handled little business for the remainder of his
                         term, relying instead on his wife to shield him from the problems his
                         administration faced. Wilson's inner circle kept even Marshall at
                         bay during this time and did not ask him to shoulder substantive
                         responsibilities. Marshall himself took no action to assert presidential
                         authority, a step he viewed as unseemly in part because the Constitution
                         made no provision for temporary transfer of power. In short, Marshall never
                         came close to assuming powers during Wilson's disability. He spent
                         his two terms presiding over the Senate, giving speeches in support of
                         administration programs and Democratic candidates, and handling ceremonial
                         chores. Nothing in his service supports the near-historic role that
                         Bennett's title proclaims.
                    The author also fails to probe very deeply in his quest to discover and
                         present Marshall; barely more than a handful of the 367 endnotes rely on
                         the Marshall papers or other archives. More than 100 citations come from
                         Marshall's autobiography, and almost that many refer to John E.
                         Brown's 1970 doctoral dissertation, "Woodrow
                         Wilson's Vice President: Thomas R. Marshall and the Wilson
                         Administration, 1913-1920."
                    A more scholarly treatment of Marshall's life, in the tradition of
                         Brown's dissertation, would not only help us to see
                         Marshall's life more clearly, but would also contribute to our
                         general knowledge of the vice presidency, a feeble political position for
                         most of our history. Like most early twentieth-century vice presidents,
                         Marshall was nominated through political deal making - not chosen by the
                         presidential nominee - and he had little contact with, or influence on, the
                         Executive Branch.
                    Rather than subjecting either such political issues or Marshall's
                         life to greater scrutiny, however, Bennett devotes considerable space to
                         describing other important events that occurred in Marshall's
                         time. He spends a page or more on a wide range of people and events -
                         including Henry Ford, the Wright brothers, Einstein, the building of the
                         Panama Canal, and the rise of Hitler - most of which had a tangential
                         relationship, if any, to Marshall.
                    Marshall's career does deserve serious historical attention. He
                         spoke frequently on public issues, and while few vice presidents had a
                         better sense of humor, his talks were not always well-received. Still, his
                         role as a public spokesman may have heralded the oratorical work that has occupied many of his
                         modern-day successors. His predicament during the period of
                         Wilson's disability remains instructive, as well. The 1967
                         ratification of 
                              Indiana
                          Senator Birch Bayh's Twenty-fifth Amendment, along
                         with the greatly enhanced role of contemporary vice presidents, makes a
                         repeat of the governmental breakdown that surrounded the Wilson disability
                         less likely. Yet Marshall's experience reminds us of the ways in
                         which tensions that develop between a vice president and the first spouse
                         and/or chief of staff may interfere with an appropriate transfer of power.
                         The definitive biography of this "fascinating life"
                         remains to be written.
                    JOEL K. GOLDSTEIN is Vincent C. Immel Professor of Law at Saint Louis
                         University. He has written extensively about the American vice
                         presidency.
               
               
                    Chicagoland City and Suburbs in the Railroad
                         Age By Ann Durkin Keating (
                              Chicago
                         : University of Chicago Press, 2005. Pp. 262. Maps,
                         illustrations, appendix, notes, index. $25.00.)
                    In Chicagoland, Ann Durkin Keating rejects the traditional
                         focus on the central city long associated with the model of concentric
                         zones. Instead, she focuses upon the effects of the nineteenth-century
                         railroads that radiated across the metropolitan region and connected the
                         233 settlements that comprised Chicagoland. Her account identifies the
                         features common across the metropolitan landscape and thus provides
                         compelling reasons for residents to embrace a larger and more inclusive
                         concept of their region. During the nineteenth century, each division of
                         the metropolitan region - north, west, and south - developed industrial,
                         agricultural, residential, recreational, and institutional components,
                         although they did so in different concentrations and mixtures. In chapters
                         devoted to each category, Keating describes the settlements and the
                         developmental patterns that resulted from a logic that crossed city and
                         suburban lines. Her work encourages readers to recognize that the patterns
                         inherent in local understanding of place are in fact present across the
                         metropolitan region.
                    Keating accomplishes this task by blending a clear and a concise narrative
                         with visual evidence provided by hundreds of skillfully chosen images and
                         first-rate maps - many of which were drawn specifically for this book.
                         These images are not the standard fare that historians have employed
                         repeatedly to decorate their texts about Chicagoland. Keating knows the
                         metropolitan region as  intimately as
                         anyone who has ever written on the topic. She has not simply spent time in
                         libraries collecting old photographs. Rather, she traveled across the
                         region investigating the places that make up her narrative. Her photographs
                         demonstrate this with authority; they include many ordinary buildings and
                         locations well-known to local residents but unfamiliar to their neighbors.
                         General readers will enjoy and benefit from so skillful an arrangement of
                         visual materials. Keating also includes an appendix with directions for a
                         series of regional tours that encourage readers to go and see for
                         themselves the evidence provided across the landscape.
                    Keating's work is especially relevant for the residents of Northwest 
                              Indiana
                         . Scholars often exclude the Calumet region when they consider
                         the 
                              Chicago
                          metropolitan region, refusing to investigate what lies beyond
                         the state border. Chicagoland shows that the Calumet
                         region shares intimate physical and cultural ties with 
                              Chicago
                         . By comparing common features within these sections, scholars
                         like Keating wish to develop a larger metropolitan vision. If residents of
                         the Calumet and their political leaders intend to understand their past and
                         to take full advantage of the future, they must recognize more fully the
                         cultural, economic, and historical ties that bind them to metropolitan 
                              Chicago
                         . The Calumet region shares its heritage with a great city that
                         has redefined itself repeatedly in response to shifts in the larger
                         economy, and continues to respond to the social and economic changes
                         associated with globalization.
                    JOSEPH C. BIGOTT is assistant professor of history at Purdue University
                         Calumet.
               
               
                    "One Shot" The World War II
                              Photography of John A. BushemiBy Ray E. Boomhower (
                              Indianapolis
                         : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2004. Pp. xi, 152.
                         Illustrations. $29.95.)
                    John Bushemi had greatness thrust upon him by World War II. Without it, he
                         would have spent his career as a journeyman press photographer at the Gary Post-Tribune. The war provided drama, complexity,
                         and momentous significance that lifted his vision above routine
                         assignments. Yank magazine provided a platform and the
                         resources that helped Bushemi to produce a body of photographs that
                         enriches our understanding of the lives of ordinary soldiers slogging
                         through the Pacific island campaigns.
                    "One Shot": The World War II Photography of
                              John A. Bushemi presents the
                         life and work of this 
                              Gary
                          son of Sicilian parents. While working in the steel mills, he
                         taught himself photography and in 1936, began as an apprentice at the Post-Tribune. Drafted in 1941, he trained at Fort Bragg, 
                              North
                                   Carolina
                         , then found his way into the public affairs office. His
                         professional experience, energy, and imagination produced photographs
                         beyond the standard fare of generals presenting medals. His warm grin and
                         outgoing personality complemented his camera skills. One colleague called
                         him the "most thoroughly likeable" person he had ever
                         known and compared his personality to "a young and frisky puppy,
                         full of friendliness and genuine charm" (p. 35).
                    Bushemi was hired as one of the first photographers for Yank, a magazine run by and for enlisted men. He could have
                         remained in the rear, photographing training and logistical operations, but
                         felt compelled to tell the front line soldier's story. He pressed
                         his superiors to let him cover invasions in 
                              New
                                   Caledonia
                         , 
                              Fiji
                         , New
                              Georgia, and Eniwetok. After being pulled off one operation before it
                         was finished, he complained in a letter, "It made me mad as hell
                         because we could've seen more action" (p. 58).
                    Bushemi's nickname "One Shot," which gives the
                         book its title, resonates with the photographic technology of his era. His
                         camera of choice, the Speed Graphic, was heavy and bulky, inclining its
                         practitioners to pose subjects rather than capture spontaneous action. That
                         it held only one piece of film - compared to the relatively new 35mm
                         camera's 36 exposures - also worked against the candid approach.
                         "One shot" expresses the pride press photographers took
                         in film discipline. Instead of hoping the law of averages would yield one
                         good picture from many grab shots, they captured the essence of a situation
                         in a single frame. An old joke told of the veteran cameraman who covered
                         all of World War II with two exposures: one for the battle, the second for
                         the winning general.
                    The strongest photos are close-up portraits of bearded infantrymen, relaxing
                         after fierce fighting on New
                              Georgia. Bushemi's pictures also reveal another
                         tool in the press photographer's arsenal: the flashgun used to
                         open up deep shadows on a subject's face. Other photographs show
                         him working hard to portray the ordinary GI's combat experience:
                         storming the beaches, digging foxholes, wading rivers, coping with dense
                         vegetation and jungle rot, encountering welcoming natives, and being
                         evacuated after suffering wounds.
                    Like Ernie Pyle, another Hoosier war correspondent who focused on GIs instead
                         of generals, Bushemi was killed in action. While covering the Eniwetok landing, he was
                         struck by mortar shrapnel. His dying words to a Yank
                         colleague were, "Be sure to get those pictures back to the
                         office" (p. 73).
                    Bushemi's work is given important context by Ray
                         Boomhower's engaging biographical essay and James H.
                         Madison's nuanced discussion 
                         of World War II, which re-examines the "good war" myth.
                         Photographs from historical collections showing the war effort on the
                         homefront provide visual counterpoints to Bushemi's combat
                         pictures.
                    CLAUDE COOKMAN is an associate professor of journalism at Indiana
                         University Bloomington.
               
               
                    The Rescue of Joshua Glover A Fugitive Slave, the
                              Constitution, and the Coming of the Civil War By H. Robert
                         Baker (
                              Athens
                         : Ohio University Press, 2006. Pp. xiv, 259. Illustrations,
                         notes, selected bibliography, index. $38.95.)
                    Ostensibly a book on the capture and rescue of a fugitive slave in 
                              Wisconsin
                         , The Rescue of Joshua Glover does much more
                         than tell an interesting story. H. Robert Baker skillfully delineates the
                         larger political, racial, and constitutional conflicts that made slavery a
                         pressing political issue for northern whites in the 1850s. Above all else,
                         the book focuses on antebellum Americans' resort to popular
                         constitutionalism: "the notion that, in the last instance, the
                         final arbiter of the Constitution was the people themselves" (p.
                         xii).
                    In March 1854, on the outskirts of 
                              Racine
                         , 
                              Wisconsin
                         , the fugitive slave Joshua Glover was seized under the terms
                         of the hated Fugitive Slave Act of 1850. His captors quickly spirited him
                         away to 
                              Milwaukee
                         , where they expected to find legal sanction and protection
                         from federal officials before carrying Glover back to slavery in 
                              Missouri
                         . Instead, on the following day, thousands of Milwaukeeans
                         assembled outdoors at the federal courthouse where they would decide
                         Glover's fate. The orderly crowd spent the day deliberating their
                         legal and extra-legal options. After exhausting a host of legal remedies,
                         the meeting decided on a popular nullification of the Fugitive Slave Act on
                         the grounds that it denied the fundamental constitutional rights of trial
                         by jury and habeas corpus. At dusk, they broke Glover out of jail, then had
                         abolitionists send him to 
                              Canada
                          where his freedom would be secured.
                    While Joshua Glover disappeared, the legal issues surrounding his rescue did
                         not. Federal authorities filed charges against the leaders of the 
                              Milwaukee
                          assembly, leading to a six-year struggle over the
                         constitutionality of the Fugitive Slave Law and the actions of those
                         involved in Glover's rescue. The legal wrangling - the cases
                         involved a host of local, state, and federal judges, juries, and officials
                         - would become a defining issue in 
                              Wisconsin
                          politics in the late 
                         1850s. Eventually, the Wisconsin Supreme Court would rule that the Fugitive
                         Slave Act was unconstitutional, only to be overturned by the United States
                         Supreme Court. In Ableman vs. Booth (1859), the Court
                         ruled that the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 was legal and that federal courts
                         and statutes were superior. By then, the legal and constitutional issues
                         surrounding Glover's rescue had become part of a larger set of
                         political concerns centering on slaveholders' increased domination
                         of the federal government. Wisconsinites - like many others in the North -
                         were now eager to support a Republican Party that promised to protect them
                         from a federal government that robbed free white northerners and the states
                         of their freedoms in order to protect and promote the interests of
                         slaveholders.
                    This short summary does no justice to Baker's rich, complex case
                         study. Baker is well-read in the secondary literature on a great range of
                         topics: nativism and immigration; local, urban, and regional history; the
                         history of mobs and crowd action; popular politics; constitutionalism; and
                         the politics of race and slavery.
                    Historians will value Baker's deep contextualization of the Glover
                         rescue in the historical literature. Students and general readers will
                         appreciate the well-written, fast-paced narrative, along with the
                         complexities of the past revealed in Baker's analysis. Professors
                         will find the book useful for all of the above reasons, and a paperback
                         edition would work well in classes on popular politics, antebellum history,
                         Midwest history, historical methods, and constitutional history. In sum, H.
                         Robert Baker has produced a fine work of historical scholarship that speaks
                         to both historians and a wider audience.
                    JOHN CRAIG HAMMOND is assistant professor of history at Penn State
                         University, New Kensington, and the author of Slavery,
                              Freedom, and Expansion in the Early American West
                         (2007).
               
               
                    Conceiving a New Republic The Republican Party and the
                              Southern Question, 1869-1900By Charles W. Calhoun (
                              Lawrence
                         : University Press of Kansas, 2006. Pp. x, 347. Illustrations,
                         notes, index. $35.00.)
                    Involving some of the most momentous issues in American history, the
                         Republicans' "Southern Policy" in the decades
                         after the Civil War has long attracted scholarly attention. Charles
                         Calhoun's Conceiving a New Republic,
                         impressively researched and thoughtfully argued, is a major and welcome
                         contribution to this body of scholarship.
                    
                    With varying degrees of emphasis, previous scholars have generally argued
                         that political expediency was the major factor underlying Republican
                         support for establishing the Fifteenth Amendment, enforcing black suffrage
                         in the South, periodically attempting to recruit white southern voters, and
                         finally abandoning efforts to maintain political rights for black
                         southerners. Without denying the influence of the partisan imperative,
                         Calhoun focuses on the ideological context within which Republicans
                         developed and defended their policies, emphasizing the consistency with
                         which they identified their goals and actions with achieving
                         republicanism.
                    But the Republicans' grand plans for truly representative government
                         faced great obstacles. Most powerful were the unrelenting racism and
                         violence with which southern whites met their efforts. Other complications
                         related to republicanism itself, none more important than the question of
                         federalism and the degree to which the national government should interfere
                         with state and local governments, particularly over the conduct of
                         elections. These matters divided Republicans, who disagreed as well on how
                         to respond to southern white intransigence.
                    Republicans developed a variety of methods to assure what Calhoun calls their
                         "republican project." Federal legislation to enforce the
                         Reconstruction amendments promised to support both southern Republicans and
                         republican government in the South, but intermittent military intervention
                         under President Ulysses S. Grant failed to protect black political rights.
                         President Rutherford B. Hayes preferred a course of conciliation, which
                         failed abysmally. Other Republican leaders vacillated between attempts to
                         divide the Solid South by appealing to economic interests and efforts to
                         create a "Solid North" by campaigning against southern
                         outrages. Such a bloody shirt approach, Calhoun insists, was not
                         diversionary or cynical, for Republicans genuinely feared that Democratic
                         control of the federal government would not merely displace Republicans but
                         destroy republicanism. Hopes for the republican project finally died when
                         Republicans failed to enact the Lodge Federal Elections Bill in 1890.
                         Thereafter, Democrats disfranchised blacks and repealed Reconstruction
                         legislation, and Republicans adapted by encouraging blacks to exercise
                         "the republican virtues of hard work and self help" (p.
                         260) rather than their republican political rights or by simply redefining
                         republicanism to exclude black Americans.
                    In deftly tracing the attitudes behind these evolving policies, Calhoun also
                         casts new and sometimes provocative light on many familiar subjects.
                         Republican maneuvers leading to the Compromise of 1877, for instance,
                         pointed more toward saving at least some of the republican project than
                         toward abandoning black rights. And federal attempts to prosecute election law violations foundered on
                         the failures of southern juries, not on a lack of Republican commitment.
                         Republicans' persistent futility, Calhoun concludes, lay in the
                         limits of political institutions to overcome popular opinion, irresolute in
                         the North and entrenched in the South.
                    While Calhoun's focus effectively demonstrates the role of ideology
                         in shaping Republican attitudes toward the South, it obscures the fact that
                         many of the same Republicans who dreamed of republican government in the
                         South regularly obstructed republican government in the North. There they
                         enacted gerrymanders for the virtual disfranchisement of Democrats,
                         rescinded woman and Mormon suffrage, restricted the vote by education and
                         nativity, and bitterly fought to preserve representation systems so biased
                         in their favor that they established minority rule. However genuine,
                         Republican support of republicanism, in the end, extended only to its role
                         in supporting Republicanism. No longer needed after the realignment of the
                         1890s, Republicans abandoned it.
                    Nonetheless, this is a significant book, full of insights and providing an
                         important new perspective on the period; it deserves a wide audience and
                         careful attention.
                    PETER ARGERSINGER is professor of history at Southern Illinois
                         University, Carbondale. He is the author of several books on Gilded Age
                         politics and is currently completing a study of the politics of
                         apportionment in the Midwest from 1870 to 1900.
               
               
                    A Commonwealth of Hope The New Deal Response to
                              Crisis By Alan Lawson (
                              Baltimore
                         , 
                              Md.
                         : Johns Hopkins University Press, 2006. Pp. xv, 280. Essay on
                         sources, index. Clothbound, $45.00; paperbound, $19.95.)
                    Like many of the other one-volume syntheses of the New Deal, Alan
                         Lawson's Commonwealth of Hope focuses on the
                         potpourri of reformist ideas driving 1930s liberalism. However, rather than
                         cataloging these ideas, and branding the New Deal an experimental goulash,
                         Lawson identifies a singular undergirding theme, the "Cooperative
                         Commonwealth." It is effective.
                    Briefly noting the European and early American roots of the term, Lawson sees
                         the vision of a cooperative commonwealth among late nineteenth-century
                         reformers (Edward Bellamy for example) who saw hope in the way the
                         nation's activities and institutions were coalescing into larger
                         units. Historian Robert Wiebe observed the same tendency among professionals, doctors, businessmen, lawyers,
                         and other middle-class Americans engaged in "The Search for
                         Order."
                    For philosopher economists such as Simon Pattern and Charles Van Hise,
                         technological and economic innovation had debunked Spencerian and Sumnerian
                         classical economics and made possible a new hopeful age of social progress.
                         Society could replace greed with justice and shower the benefits of
                         progress on all - rich and poor, farmer and industrial worker. Franklin D.
                         Roosevelt, argues Lawson, internalized this progressive vision of a
                         cooperative commonwealth. A lonely child, FDR found a father figure in
                         headmaster Endicott Peabody, who preached a mix of moral Christianity and
                         social compassion; it was a compassionate streak reinforced by
                         FDR's wife Eleanor. By 1932 the 
                              Hyde
                                   Park
                          "tree farmer's" ideological arsenal
                         drew upon Louis Brandeis's passion for restoring competition, as
                         well as the New Nationalism of Van Hise and Theodore Roosevelt. He
                         distilled from this bundle of ideas called Progressivism a belief that
                         through bold government intervention in 
                              America's
                          flagging economy the nation could restore dignity to the
                         common man, and that national planning could rescue struggling farmers and
                         jobless steelworkers.
                    Lawson's interpretation of the New Deal era is heavily biographical
                         and strongly focused on the agency of FDR himself. He traces the New
                         Deal's social welfare program (including unemployment
                         compensation) from the nineteenth-century Social Gospel movement, through
                         the Freudian-influenced scientific casework of the 1920s, culminating in
                         social security. The author naturally underscores economic theory and
                         theorists, including, of course, Lord John Maynard Keynes, whom FDR found
                         inscrutable but whose ideas (embraced by Harry Hopkins, Beardsley Ruml, and
                         other New Dealers) clearly shaped the "Second New Deal."
                         But Lawson never ignores the spiritual side of the New Deal. In WPA murals,
                         in the photography of Dorothea Lange and Russell Lee, the writings of Ralph
                         Ellison and Eudora Welty, and in Mollie Flanagan's WPA theater,
                         the New Deal brightened the vision of a cooperative commonwealth. His saga
                         of the New Deal advances chronologically through the NRA, TVA, CCC, and
                         FERA; Black Monday, the Second New Deal, the 1936 election, the Supreme
                         Court packing debacle, Thurmond Arnold's crusade against monopoly,
                         and World War II, where Keynesianism was vindicated. He punctuates his
                         narrative with crisp vignettes of Felix Frankfurter, Brandeis, Keynes, and
                         other key figures.
                    By 1936 American business that once embraced the commonwealth had abdicated.
                         Yet, argues Lawson, the theme endured, evidenced by the success of a New
                         Deal-spurred union movement that won self-respect for the American
                         industrial worker. Small farmers fared less well. However, overall  by 1960 (still in the glow of the New
                         Deal) the income gap between the rich and the poor had considerably
                         narrowed from 1929. Lawson's crepe-draped final chapter recounts
                         the denouement of Ronald Reagan's Commonwealth of Hope through the
                         wasteland of the Bush II years.
                    A Commonwealth of Hope provides a highly readable and
                         illuminating synthesis of some of the best scholarship on the New Deal. My
                         only reservation about an otherwise excellent narrative is that Lawson
                         essentially ignores cities, and the significant urban housing and regional
                         planning dimension of the New Deal. This untold story would have
                         strengthened the author's conceptual framework. New Deal housing
                         and urban planning programs had strong progressive origins, and despite
                         conservative reaction, they survived through World War II. These ventures -
                         the PWA Housing Division, the National Resources Planning Board, the
                         Greenbelt Town planning, public housing, Lanham Act war housing - all fit
                         neatly into Lawson's cooperative commonwealth thesis, and I was
                         baffled by their absence. Otherwise, I regard this as an important and
                         accessible contribution to the extensive scholarship on the New Deal and
                         its legacy.
                    JOHN E BAUMAN is visiting professor in the Muskie School of Public
                         Service at the University of Southern Maine, Portland. He is the author of
                              Public Housing, Race, and Renewal: Urban Planning in
                              Philadelphia, 1920-1974 (1987) and, with Edward K. Muller, Before Renaissance: Planning in 
                                   Pittsburgh
                              , 1889-1943 (2006).
               
               
                    Buried in the Bitter Waters The Hidden History of Racial
                              Cleansing in 
                                   America
                               By Elliot Jaspin (
                              New
                                   York
                         : Basic Books, 2007. Pp. ix, 341. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                         appendices, bibliography, index. $26.95.
                    Elliot Jaspin, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist for Cox Newspapers, spent
                         a number of years investigating the strange anomaly he discovered in census
                         records: the precipitous drop in the number of African Americans in certain 
                              U.S.
                          counties. His research was originally published in the Austin American Statesman and other Cox newspapers,
                         displayed on a website - "Leave or Die"
                         [www.statesman.com/news/content/shared/news/interactives/lod/index.html]
                         and developed by Marco Williams into a 2006 documentary called Banished.
                    Jaspin uses the modern term "cleansing" to denote the
                         concerted effort by white residents to drive African Americans from these
                         counties. Concentrating on the middle 
                         Atlantic, southern, and midwestern states in the years between 1890 and
                         1930, he identifies nearly 260 suspicious drops, over ten percent of the
                         counties he examined. Concentrating on some of the largest numerical drops,
                         he details twelve of the most dramatic stories, geographically spread from 
                              Georgia
                          to 
                              Texas
                         , from 
                              Missouri
                          to 
                              Indiana
                          - where he looks at the steep decline of African Americans in 
                              Washington
                                   County
                          from 1860 to 1870, and at a 1923 effort to drive the small
                         African American population from 
                              Vermillion
                                   County's
                          coal-mining community of 
                              Blanford
                         . Jaspin describes the terror to which African Americans were
                         subjected, but he is equally fascinated by the stories many of these
                         communities tell or, rather, don't tell about the racial
                         cleansings in their pasts.
                    Much of the work is expository - not surprising for a journalist doing
                         history - but these stories should be exposed. Jaspin seems attuned to some
                         of the nuances of these communities' stories, and he does not
                         reduce every conflict to black and white. For instance, in his discussion
                         of an 1886 
                              Texas
                          expulsion, he argues that the lynching that followed a murder
                         may have had more to do with frontier justice than with race, but that the
                         subsequent expulsion of African Americans was clearly racial. Jaspin does
                         provide some interesting insights, including the demographic signature of
                         racial cleansing: a donut hole, whereby surrounding counties measure an
                         increase in African American population. In 
                              Indiana
                         , 
                              Lawrence
                                   County
                          more than doubled its African American population between 1860
                         and 1870, perhaps taking in many of those who left 
                              Washington
                                   County
                         . The most sweeping argument in the book is Jaspin's
                         explanation of why the white majority chose expulsion of the entire African
                         American community rather than lynching particular individuals:
                         "more often than not what separated a single lynching from a mass
                         expulsion was economic rivalry" (p. 216).
                    Both 
                              Indiana
                          cases, however, seem to fall under the "not"
                         category. There is little evidence in the book that residents of 
                              Washington
                                   County
                          feared economic competition as much as they feared the very
                         notion of "equality." And in 
                              Vermillion
                                   County
                         , the immigrant Serbs and Italians who were the economic rivals
                         of local African Americans were not the antagonists. That role was filled
                         by the native-born - many of whom were affiliated with both the Ku Klux
                         Klan and the local Horse Thief Detective Association - who were as
                         suspicious of the immigrant workers as they were of African Americans. Yet
                         Jaspin's story does not quite cohere; he has a clearer picture of
                         the conflicts between native-born and immigrants than he does of the forces
                         that drove African Americans from 
                              Vermillion
                                   County
                         .
                    This book is an invitation to Hoosier scholars to do more work on these and
                         other dreadful cases.  Almost every
                         major Ohio River
                         town in 
                              Indiana
                          had at least one threatened racial cleansing, and in
                         communities as diverse as 
                              Greensburg
                          and 
                              Decatur
                         , some whites attempted and sometimes succeeded in driving
                         African Americans from their midst. In the process, Jaspin's work
                         will be modified, as scholars uncover the stories in their full local
                         complexity. We should be thankful to Jaspin for alerting us to this history
                         and reminding us that such atrocities were not limited to the South.
                    RICHARD NATION is associate professor of history at Eastern Michigan
                         University, Ypsilanti, and the author of At Home in the
                              Hoosier Hills: Agriculture, Politics, and Religion in Southern 
                                   Indiana
                              , 1810-1870 (2005) and "Violence and the
                         Rights of African Americans in Civil War-Era 
                              Indiana
                         : The Case of James Hays," Indiana
                              Magazine of History, 100 (September 2004). He is co-editing, with
                         Stephen Towne, 
                              
                                   Indiana's
                               War: The Civil War in Documents, forthcoming from
                         Ohio University Press.
               
               
                    Race to the Frontier "White Flight"
                              and Westward Expansion By John V. H. Dippel (
                              New
                                   York
                         : Algora Publishing, 2005. Pp xi, 337. Notes, selected
                         bibliography, index. Clothbound, $28.95; paperbound, $22.95.)
                    John V. H. Dippel provocatively deploys the modern decampment of whites to
                         the suburbs as an organizing metaphor for his argument that the desire to
                         distance themselves from African Americans motivated successive waves of
                         white "plain folk" to relocate ever farther westward. At
                         the argument's core is a demographic genealogy of Free Soil
                         ideology, the northern antebellum vision of the Midwest and
                         trans-Mississippi territories as the dominion of free white farmers, whose
                         material opportunities would be maximized and labor ennobled by the absence
                         of slavery. Many Free Soilers were unapologetically racist, ascribing the
                         degradations of slavery as inherent characteristics of all African
                         Americans. Although Dippel's emphasis on the anti-black element of
                         frontier development is buttressed by existing scholarship, his sweeping
                         synthesis relies on too many partial inferences to be fully persuasive, let
                         alone to reconfigure our understanding of either westward expansion or of
                         American racial ideology.
                    Dippel identifies the seeds of Free Soil prejudice in seventeenth-century 
                              Virginia
                          and follows white non-slaveholding southerners who planted
                         those seeds in frontier zones from the Virginia Piedmont all the way to 
                              Oregon
                          and 
                              California
                         . Rather than analyze race as a historically contingent
                         cultural construct, he treats it as an essentially ingrained hatred from
                         the time of Nathaniel Bacon's
                         insurgency to Abraham Lincoln's ascendancy. In this formulation,
                         white migrants despised blacks and had no desire to share either the
                         unregulated freedom of frontier zones or the fruits of the subsequent rural
                         economy.
                    Dippel's case for racist continuity relies on census data which
                         indicates impressive numbers of white Virginians, Kentuckians, and their
                         descendants residing in the southern tier of the Old Northwest (
                              Ohio
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         ), as well as in 
                              Missouri
                          and subsequent western territories. He observes that more
                         Kentuckians emigrated to free states than to slave states and indicates
                         that one-third of Oregonians were of southern origins, including almost
                         half of the delegates to the territory's 1857 constitutional
                         convention. Dippel's statistical analysis is especially useful
                         when he is able to link racist legislation and state constitutional
                         provisions to politicians from particular districts where southerners and
                         former southerners settled most heavily. But even these numbers suggest
                         what white plain folk thought about race, without confirming that the
                         desire to be free of exposure to black people was, in and of itself, a
                         principle motivation for moving. Moreover, as Dippel's own account
                         indicates, western migrants from the North to places as far away as 
                              Oregon
                          advocated for the same sorts of racially exclusive policies as
                         their southern-descended counterparts.
                    Dippel's treatment of Free Soil ideology as a persistent southern
                         folkway with important political manifestations can be quite informative.
                         The final chapter of the book features the story of 
                              Tennessee
                         -born, 
                              Missouri
                         -raised Peter H. Burnett as an advocate of black exclusion in
                         both the 
                              Oregon
                          and 
                              California
                          territories. Several hundred miles away from established slave
                         states and in the virtual absence of African Americans, anti-black racism
                         constituted an important force in defining the values of the frontier.
                         Earlier in the book, Dippel provides a brief, effective sketch of Jonathan
                         Jennings's party as it forestalled the spread of slavery to 
                              Indiana
                          while also seeking to minimize the black presence in the
                         Hoosier state by refusing to extend the franchise to free blacks.
                    A more extensive and systematic incorporation of the voices, visions, and
                         stories of specific plain folk and their representatives would have greatly
                         strengthened this study. The virtual absence of American Indians from this
                         book on race and the frontier is also problematic. Ultimately, the sweeping
                         argument of Race to the Frontier outpaces its evidence
                         and its methods.
                    DAVID GELLMAN is associate professor of history at DePauw University, 
                              Greencastle
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         . He is the author of Emancipating 
                                   New
                                        York
                              : The Politics of Slavery and Freedom, 1777-1827
                         (2006) and co-editor of Jim Crow 
                                   New
                                        York
                              : A Documentary History of Race and Citizenship,
                              1777-1877 (2003). 
               
               
               
                    The Songs That Fought the War Popular Music and the
                              Homefront, 1939-1945 By John Bush Jones (
                              Waltham
                         , 
                              Mass.
                         : Brandeis University Press, 2006. Pp. xiv, 338. Bibliography,
                         index of song titles, general index. $29.95.)
                    When John Bush Jones heard the opening strains of a song he had not heard for
                         over sixty years, memories flooded his consciousness. His experience
                         demonstrates that music can play a very important role in our lives and can
                         be used as a roadmap of sorts to gain a view into the past. The Songs That Fought the War serves as a way to comprehend the
                         immensity and impact of World War II on the American people, and, even
                         though many of the songs that Jones examines were neither hits nor of high
                         quality, they do reveal the multivariate ways in which the people came to
                         see and understand this seminal conflict. Jones does not undertake this
                         mission out of sentiment though, but "to fill a void" (p.
                         ix). Jones compiled a listing of 1,700 songs, some recorded, some only
                         published, some never published or recorded, to better document how popular
                         music tried to define and understand the global conflict. The result is a
                         comprehensive thematic overview of the mindset of the American people and
                         how writers of popular music tried to document the collective understanding
                         of their generation.
                    The songs are broken into ten categories, ranging from isolationist to
                         wartime romance songs. The song database gives Jones a lot of fodder to
                         work with, and each chapter is littered with song titles, authors, singers,
                         and a brief overview of the songs' contents and meanings. The
                         reader will come away from this work convinced that World War II produced
                         enough war songs, thanks to Jones's broad definition of
                         war-related songs. His chapter on methodology discusses the complexity of
                         the music industry, from publishing through recording and jobbing, and the
                         often contradictory nature of popularity and sales charts. Through this
                         Jones reveals that popular music did indeed respond to the war in numbers
                         that rivaled other popular media, but because no one song became the song of the war like "Over There"
                         for World War I, it seemed as though popular music had fallen short.
                    Even before 
                              America
                          entered the war, songsmiths and singers tried to tap into
                         pro-Allied sentiment with songs like "The Last Time I Saw
                         Paris," or "The White Cliffs of Dover." Once
                         involved in the conflict, the range and number of American songs grew
                         rapidly, from draft/service comic songs like "I've Got
                         Those Peelin' Those Potatoes, Slicin' Those Tomatoes,
                         Liftin' Up Those Garbage Can Blues," through the variety
                         of songs dealing with homefront-related issues. Those not overseas found
                              themselves with a wide range of
                         entertainment options and a variety of ways in which to do their part for
                         the war. Songwriters, both professional and amateur, wrote
                         "hundreds of songs advocating everything from national unity to
                         scrap metal drives" (p. 181). Yet, of all the songs examined by
                         Jones those concerning the heartbreak of leaving constituted the largest
                         number - over 370 songs - which suggests that most writers and consumers of
                         music saw the conflict in very personal terms. "White
                         Christmas" and "I'll Be Home for
                         Christmas" were the most famous of these.
                    Jones has produced an interesting survey of World War II-era popular music
                         and has left few stones unturned in order to document the plethora of
                         popular sentiment. If one were looking for a song written, published, or
                         sung from 1940 through 1945 that dealt in any way with the war, The Songs That Fought the War certainly would have a
                         listing.
                    The book has some drawbacks, however. Foremost is the lack of a conclusion
                         which contextualizes all the songs examined and suggests some meaning.
                         Perhaps Jones wanted readers to draw their own conclusions, but this has
                         the potential to lead in a direction he did not intend. For example, Jones
                         admits in several places in the book that many of the songs were not
                         popular or had very limited exposure. One can argue then that the war did
                         not produce any definitive war song(s), a position taken by others before
                         him. Jones, of course, argues the other way in the beginning of the book,
                         but after I waded through the thousands of song titles on all sorts of
                         topics, I lost track of the main point.
                    Overall though, The Songs That Fought the War is a worthy
                         read, as it places popular music at the center of the burgeoning
                         entertainment industry and outlines just how prolific Americans were in
                         their understanding and support of World War II.
                    KENNETH J. BINDAS is professor of history at Kent State University,
                         Trumbull.
               
               
                    The Politics of Zoos Exotic Animals and Their
                              Protectors By Jesse Donahue and Erik Trump (
                              De
                                   Kalb
                         : Northern Illinois University Press, 2006. Pp. xii, 224.
                         Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography, index. Clothbound, $40.00;
                         paperbound, $24.00.)
                    Several years ago a focus-group participant, asked to comment on a proposed
                         new zoo exhibit, wryly noted: "When you've seen one zoo,
                         you've seen them all." On the surface this observation
                         would seem to contain some truth, but in reality the nation's
                         zoos, aquariums, and marine parks are
                         as diverse as the animal collections they exhibit and care for. There are
                         institutions that are run as for-profit entertainment venues and others
                         that are operated as non-profit cultural attractions. Governance runs the
                         spectrum from private non-tax supported facilities to institutions that are
                         extensions of local, state, and even the federal government. There are very
                         large and complex operations that cost tens of millions of dollars to
                         operate annually, and there are small facilities with operating budgets of
                         less than one million dollars.
                    In addition to these outwardly visible differences, significant internal
                         differences in viewpoint exist among the professionals within the zoo and aquarium field. The strong emotional bonds
                         formed by keepers caring for individual animals may conflict with the goals
                         of population biologists trying to dispassionately manage a collective
                         captive population of a species. Add to this complex formula a mix of
                         individual egos, ambitions, and competing visions, and one can begin to
                         grasp the difficulty that the industry's accrediting body, the
                         Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA), has faced over the decades in
                         reaching consensus on standards among its members, representing the
                         collective industry opinion to regulators, and dealing with a vocal
                         coalition of animal rights groups bent on driving zoos out of existence.
                         The image of herding cats immediately comes to mind.
                    How the AZA has navigated this political minefield is the subject of The Politics of Zoos: Exotic Animals and Their
                              Protectors. Jesse Donahue and Erik Trump, assistant professors of
                         political science at Saginaw Valley State University, provide a
                         chronological analysis of pivotal milestones of the last thirty years that
                         have shaped the political landscape of the nation's zoos. They
                         offer excellent analysis of the issues of establishing self-sustaining zoo
                         animal populations, animal importations, and animal welfare. The authors
                         also chronicle the challenges that AZA has faced in maintaining compliance
                         and unity among its member institutions. What does not come across in this
                         scholarly narrative are the personalities of the principal actors involved
                         or the emotionally charged atmosphere of some of these events.
                    Although events as recent as 2005 are referenced, the authors curiously
                         neglect to include any information about the formation of the Congressional
                         Zoo and Aquarium Caucus, formed by the late Congresswoman Julia Carson in
                         the 109th Congress. The caucus symbolizes not only the important status of
                         the nation's zoos and aquariums, but also the political maturation
                         of the AZA and its member institutions.
                    PAUL GRAYSON is deputy director and senior vice president of
                         conservation and science at the Indianapolis Zoo. He is also former chair
                         of the AZA Government Affairs Committee.
               
               
               
                    Julius Rosenwald The Man Who Built Sears, Roebuck and
                              Advanced the Cause of Black Education in the American South
                         By Peter M. Ascoli (
                              Bloomington
                         : Indiana University Press, 2006. Pp. xii, 453. Illustrations,
                         notes, bibliography, index. $35.00.)
                    As Peter Ascoli, Julius Rosenwald's grandson-turned-biographer, so
                         rightly observes, it is most unfortunate that Rosenwald remains one of the
                         least-studied luminaries in the history of twentieth-century American
                         business and philanthropy. This book is only the second attempt in nearly
                         seventy years to write a comprehensive biography of this remarkable leader.
                         Rosenwald, born in 1862 to a middle-class Reform Jewish family in 
                              Springfield
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         , died in 
                              Chicago
                          in 1932 as one of the nation's most well-respected
                         businessmen and philanthropists. He lived during the emergence and gradual
                         transformation of the post-Civil War racial caste order but, despite his
                         own paternal attitudes about race, contributed to the eventual breakdown of
                         Jim Crow which began in the late 1940s. As the book's subtitle
                         implies, Rosenwald was instrumental in advancing the cause of black
                         education in the South during the years of Jim Crow. He supported Booker T.
                         Washington, served as a long-time trustee of Tuskegee Institute, built more
                         than 5,000 Rosenwald schools from 1917 through the early 1930s, and in 1928
                         established the Julius Rosenwald Fund to develop unusual black talent and
                         reform race relations.
                    Ascoli succeeds in mining untapped archival and rarely used secondary
                         historical sources to reconstruct Rosenwald's contributions to the
                         building of Sears, Roebuck and Co. as a model early twentieth-century
                         business and to the practice of corporate philanthropic giving. The author
                         looks at his work with Jewish charities and social services, as well as his
                         role in the establishment of the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry and
                         the University of Chicago. Rosenwald became legendary for his insistence
                         that the wealthy were responsible for their own generation and therefore
                         should not engage in perpetual giving practices.
                    In many respects, Ascoli does an admirable job of disentangling the mythical
                         Rosenwald from the real man through his use of archival and secondary
                         historical sources. Unfortunately, the private and institutional
                         collections on which he relies do not provide the in-depth data to fully
                         round out the lives of Rosenwald and those in his personal, social, and
                         professional circles. The scarcity of reliable historical data, combined
                         with the style of the book (which reads too often like a litany of
                         Rosenwald's deeds), results in a frequent lack of historical
                         context.
                    
                    In some instances, other archival collections, books, and articles could have
                         been selected and would have greatly enriched the story Ascoli was trying
                         to tell. Missing from the author's research are, for example,
                         documents from the Charles S. Johnson Papers at Fisk University, the
                         Commission on Interracial Cooperation Papers in the Atlanta University
                         Center Library, the John Slater Fund Papers, the George Peabody Fund
                         Papers, and the Phelps-Stokes Fund Papers. These collections, as well as
                         seminal historical works such as Kenneth King's Pan-Africanism and Education (1971), would have given the author
                         a more sophisticated grasp of the philanthropic environment, especially as
                         it pertained to late nineteenth- and early twentieth-century southern
                         black education.
                    It is also unclear if Ascoli has a grasp of the racial climate of the times
                         about which he writes and of the major black leaders whom he mentions (or
                         does not mention). For instance, he treats only in passing the heated
                         debate in pre-World War I America regarding industrial education for
                         blacks, as championed by Booker T. Washington, and the liberal arts
                         education advocated by William E. B. DuBois. According to Ascoli,
                         Rosenwald's impression of Robert Moton, Washington's
                         successor at Tuskegee, was of a passive incompetent leader, which does not
                         shore up well with historical evidence about Moton. Rosenwald's
                         misconception about Moton could have been refuted by a number of historical
                         accounts of Moton's leadership, which included opposition to the
                         Ku Klux Klan in the 1920s and a willingness to allow liberal arts education
                         into the Tuskegee curriculum. In fact, one could argue that
                         Rosenwald's real problem with Moton derived from Moton's
                         willingness to deviate from the kind of racial paternalism that Booker T.
                         Washington had advocated.
                    As much as Ascoli's assessment of the Julius Rosenwald Fund should
                         be commended, it nevertheless presents numerous missed opportunities.
                         Without reference to the Charles S. Johnson Papers at Fisk, Ascoli ignores
                         Johnson's central role as a Rosenwald Fund trustee who also became
                         the fund's favorite African American beneficiary and who greatly
                         shaped its priorities. Johnson, along with fund president Edwin Embree and
                         Will Alexander, executive director of the 
                              Atlanta
                         -based Commission on Interracial Cooperation, utilized what we
                         now call action social science research to produce a new kind of knowledge
                         which would feed into the racial justice movements of the 1950s.
                    Finally, the author does not say enough about how Rosenwald, other
                         philanthropists of his generation, and their foundations' staff
                         members changed their minds over time about issues such as Jim Crow. The
                         book provides hints about this process, but not enough focused assessment
                         of the social circles Rosenwald, Embree, and others were pulled into with
                         progressive racial integration. These
                         men, along with many other whites and blacks, became the progenitors of
                         theories, practices, and value systems which would erode the grip of Jim
                         Crow on American society.
                    Ascoli is no doubt well aware that this biography will be far from the last
                         word on Julius Rosenwald. The book raises important questions, and it is a
                         noble first step in recovering the life and contributions of an
                         extraordinary man, and the context in which he developed, raised a family,
                         established a national business, and modestly gave his time and money to
                         cutting-edge issues of his day.
                    JOHN H. STANFIELD II is professor of African American and African
                         Diaspora Studies at Indiana University Bloomington and is the 2007-08
                         PUC-Rio Distinguished Fulbright Chair in American Studies, 
                              Rio de
                                   Janiero
                         , 
                              Brazil
                         . He is the author of Philanthropy and Jim Crow in
                              American Social Science (1985) and editor of Hylan
                         Lewis's Black Ways of Kent
                         (forthcoming).
               
               
               
                    RECENT ARTICLES, BOOKS, PAMPHLETS, DISSERTATIONS, AND OTHER PUBLICATIONS
                         IN INDIANA HISTORY 2007
                    COMPILED BY SUZANNE HAHN
                    
                         "1913 Flood of 
                                   Indianapolis
                              ," Indianapolis Postcard Club
                              (Spring 2007).
                         Aamidor, Abe, "Who Was Chuck Taylor? The Man and the
                              Shoe," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Summer
                              2007).
                         Anthrop, Mary E., "The Road Less Traveled: Hoosier African
                              Americans and 
                                   Liberia
                              ," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Winter
                              2007).
                         Ayer, Tammy S., "The Lake: Theodore Dreiser's
                              Journey to An American Tragedy," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Summer
                              2007).
                         Baas, Chris, "Jens Jensen and Indiana Dunes State
                              Park," Outdoor 
                                        Indiana
                                   
                              , 72 (May/June 2007).
                         Baer, M. Teresa, and Geneil Breeze, eds., Finding 
                                        Indiana
                                    Ancestors: A Guide to Historical Research (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2007).
                         Bailey, Wilma, "A Brief History of African American Women in 
                                   Indiana
                              ," Encounter: A Quarterly Journal of
                                   Theological Scholarship, 68 (Winter 2007).
                         Baker, Ronald L., "Creativity and Tradition in Pearl Bryan
                              Legends," Midwestern Folklore, Journal of the
                                   Hoosier Folklore Society, 33 (Spring 2007).
                         Banks, Michael A., "Big Dream, Small Car: Powell Crosley
                              Jr.'s 
                                   Indiana
                               Automobile," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Spring
                              2007).
                         Barrows, Robert G., "The Local Origins of a New Deal Housing
                              Project: The Case of Lockefield Gardens in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              ," Indiana Magazine of History,
                              103 (June 2007).
                         Bassett, Beth, "A Walk Around 
                                   Sumava
                              ," Newton County Historical Society Newcomer, 12 (Winter 2007). [Article on 
                                   Sumava Resort
                               reprinted from The Morocco Courier,
                              August 10, 1933.]

                         
                         -----"Endangered, Extirpated and Extinct Birds of 
                                   Newton
                                        County
                              ," Newton County Historical Society Newcomer, 12
                              (Summer/Fall 2007).
                         Bell, Janet Cheatham, The Time and Place that Gave Me
                                   Life (
                                   Bloomington
                              : Indiana University Press, 2007).
                         Berndt, Craig J., The Toledo & Chicago
                                   Interurban Railway Company: Its Predecessor and Successors, the
                                   Garrett, Auburn & Northern Electric Railway Company, the
                                   Fort Wayne & Northwestern Railway Company, the Indiana
                                   Service Corporation, the Indiana & Michigan Electric
                                   Company, 1901-1952, Providers of Electric Railway Service to 
                                        Altona
                                    - 
                                        Auburn
                                    - 
                                        Auburn Junction
                                    - 
                                        Avilla
                                    - 
                                        Butler Center
                                    - 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                    - 
                                        Garrett
                                    - 
                                        Huntertown
                                    - 
                                        Kendallville
                                    - 
                                        Waterloo
                                    (
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                              : Berndt, 2007).
                         Boomhower, Ray E., Fighting for Equality: A Life of May
                                   Wright Sewall (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2007).
                         ----- "The Doctor and the Stars: Goethe Link and His
                              Observatory," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Fall 2007).
                         Boudreau, George W., "Memory, Identity, and Heritage in the
                              Great Depression: The 
                                   LaPorte
                              , 
                                   Indiana
                              , Centennial of 1932 as a Case Study," Indiana Magazine of History, 103 (June
                              2007).
                         Bower, John, and Lynn Bower, After the Harvest: 
                                        Indiana's
                                    Historic Grain Elevators and Feed Mills (
                                   Bloomington
                              : Studio Indiana, 2007).
                         Brawley, Edward Allan, "The Social Engineer: Robert Hunter
                              and 
                                   America's
                               Poor," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Winter
                              2007).
                         Bushnell, Scott M., Hard News, Heartfelt Opinions: A
                                   History of the Fort Wayne Journal Gazette (
                                   Bloomington
                              : Indiana University Press, 2007).
                         Carr, Cynthia, Our Town: A Heartland Lynching, a Haunted
                                   Town, and the Hidden History of White 
                                        America
                                    (
                                   New
                                        York
                              : Three Rivers Press, 2007).
                         Cavinder, Fred D., The 
                                        Indiana
                                    Book of Trivia (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2007).
                         
                                        City of South Bend
                                    Historic Sites and Structures: An Interim
                                   Report (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2007).
                         Cox, Stephen E, "Twenty Years on the Underground Railroad:
                              John H. Tibbets's 'Reminiscence of Slavery
                              Times'," The Hoosier Genealogist:
                                   Connections, 46 (Issue 4, 2006).
                         Crandell, Doug, The All-American Industrial Motel: A
                                   Memoir (
                                   Chicago
                              , 
                                   Ill.
                              : Chicago Review Press, 2007).
                         Curtis, Wayne, "Back Home in 
                                   Indiana
                              ," Preservation: The Magazine of the
                                   National Trust for Historic Preservation, 59 (May/June
                              2007). [Restoration of West Baden Springs Hotel.]

                         
                         "Doing Local History in 
                                   Indiana
                              : A Conversation with Linda Lou Rippy, Charlotte Sellers,
                              and Joseph L. Skvarenina," Indiana Magazine of
                                   History, 103 (December 2007).
                         Drucker, Donna J., "'A Noble Experiment':
                              The Marriage Course at Indiana University, 1938-1940," Indiana Magazine of History, 103 (September 2007). 
                         Eberly, William R., "
                                   Indiana
                               Recognizes Brethren's Annual Meetings,"
                                   Newsletter of the North Manchester Historical
                                   Society, 24 (February 2007). [North Manchester Church of the
                              Brethren hosted annual meetings in 1878, 1888, 1900.]
                         "
                                   Edinburgh
                              ," Indianapolis Postcard Club
                              (Fall 2007).
                         Eidson, Deborah, "A Survey of 
                                   Allen
                                        County
                               District Schools," Old Fort
                                   News, 70 (Number 1, 2007).
                         Flynn, Elizabeth, "Our Fathers' Stories: The World
                              War II Oral History Collection at the Indiana Historical
                              Society," The Hoosier Genealogist:
                                   Connections, 47 (Issue 2, 2007).
                         Formwalt, Lee W, "Balancing Scholarship and Activism: An
                              Interview with Lawrence J. Friedman," OAH
                                   Newsletter, 35 (February 2007).
                         Fuller, Robert L., "Mr. Halleck's New Deal:
                              Congressman Charles Halleck and the Limits to Reform," Indiana Magazine of History, 103 (March
                              2007).
                         Gaughan, Evan, "Diphtheria Victim's Journal: The
                              Diary of Lucius S. Keaton, 
                                   Shelby
                                        County
                              , 1864-1865," The Hoosier
                                   Genealogist: Connections, 47 (Issue 2, 2007).
                         Geib, George W, and Donald B. Kite, Federal Justice in 
                                        Indiana
                                   : The History of the United States District Court for
                                   the Southern District of Indiana (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Indiana Historical Society Press in cooperation with the
                              District Court Library Fund of the United States District Court for
                              the Southern District of Indiana, 2007).
                         Gray, Ralph D., Meredith Nicholson: A Writing Life (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2007).
                         Grayson, Eric, "Limberlost Found: 
                                   Indiana's
                               Literary Legacy in 
                                   Hollywood
                              ," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Winter
                              2007).
                         Gros Louis, Kenneth, "Herman B Wells and the Legacy of
                              Leadership at Indiana University," Indiana
                                   Magazine of History, 103 (September 2007).
                         Hahn, Suzanne, "The Indiana Historical Society
                              Library," The Hoosier Genealogist:
                                   Connections, 46 (Issue 4, 2006).

                         
                         Hanneman, Carolyn G., "Senator from 
                                   Oklahoma
                              : The Legislative Career of Hoosier Elmer
                              Thomas," Indiana Magazine of History, 103
                              (December 2007).
                         Harvey, Nigel, Joseph L. Martin, Thomas Bacher, and Travis Bunner,
                                   Amid the Alien Corn: An Intrepid Englishman in the
                                   Heart of 
                                        America
                                   (
                                   West Lafayette
                              , 
                                   Ind.
                              : Purdue University Press, 2007).
                         Hennon, Robert D., "Three Sister Dressmakers: Postcards Tell
                              Story of Talented Career Women Working in Southern 
                                   Indiana
                               from 1880- 1930," The Hoosier
                                   Genealogist: Connections, 47 (Issue 1, 2007).
                         Hinton, Paula K., "'Just Like One of the
                              Family': An Immigrant Murderess in Turn-of-the-Century 
                                   America
                              ," Ohio Valley History, 6
                              (Winter 2006). [Account of the life of Belle Gunness.]
                         Hippenhammer, Craighton, "The House of a Thousand
                              Candles," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Summer
                              2007).
                         Holzer, Harold, ed., Abraham Lincoln Portrayed in the
                                   Collections of the Indiana Historical Society (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006).
                         Joachim, Martin D., "Books and Other Reading Materials in 
                                   Monroe
                                        County
                              , 
                                   Indiana
                              ," Cataloging and Classification
                                   Quarterly, 44 (No. 1/2 2007).
                         Jones, David, "'An Unusual Case': Dan
                              Shay, Clarence Euell, Gertrude Anderson, and the Limits of Hoosier
                              Progressivism," Indiana Magazine of
                              History, 103 (December 2007).
                         Jones, James R., "Projectile Points: Can You Dig
                              It?," Outdoor 
                                        Indiana
                                   , 72 (November/December 2007).
                         Knight, Dawn K., Taliaferro: Breaking Barriers from the
                                   NFL Draft to the Ivory Tower (
                                   Bloomington
                              : Indiana University Press, 2007).
                         Knight, Max E., Spinning Through Clouds: Tales from an
                                   Early Hoosier Aviator (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2007).
                         Kramer, Carl E., and Mary Kagin Kramer, This Place We
                                   Call Home: A History of 
                                        Clark
                                             County
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                    (
                                   Bloomington
                              : Indiana University Press, 2007).
                         Lane, James B., ed., "Brothers in Arms: Vietnam Veterans
                              from the Calumet Region of Northwest 
                                   Indiana
                              ," Steel Shavings, 39
                              (2008).
                         -----"The Man of Steel with a Heart of Gold: Tony Zale of 
                                   Gary
                              , 
                                   Indiana
                              ," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Spring
                              2007).
                         Lantzer, Jason S., "The Origin of 
                                   Indiana's
                               Dry Leader: The Reverend Edward S. Shumaker and
                              Midwestern Dry Culture," Journal of the Gilded
                                   Age and Progressive Era, 6 (January 2007).
                         
                         Lantzer, Jason S., and Alexandra Minna Stern, "Building a
                              Fit Society: 
                                   Indiana's
                               Eugenics Crusaders," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Winter
                              2007).
                         Lapp, Rachel J., and Anita K. Stalter, More Than
                                   Petticoats: Remarkable 
                                        Indiana
                                    Women (
                                   Helena
                              , 
                                   Mont.
                              : TwoDot, 2007).
                         Lockridge, Elsie Shockley, "Henry County: Real Life
                              Background in Raintree County," 
                                        Henry
                                             County
                                    Historicalog, 34 (Fall 2007). [Portion of
                              speech Elsie Shockley Lockridge, mother of Ross Lockridge Jr.,
                              delivered to the annual meeting of the Henry County Historical
                              Society, April 28, 1949.]
                         McGarrah, Jim, A Temporary Sort of Peace: A Memoir of 
                                        Vietnam
                                    (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2007).
                         ----- "In Country: From A Temporary Sort of
                                   Peace," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Summer 2007).
                              [Excerpt from book.]
                         McMullen, Glenn, and Charles Latham Jr., "Indianapolis
                              Asylum for Friendless Colored Children," Traces
                                   of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Summer
                              2007).
                         McPherson, Alan, Journeys to the Past: A
                                   Traveler's Guide to 
                                        Indiana
                                    State Historical Markers (
                                   Bloomington
                              , Ind.: AuthorHouse, 2007).
                         Madison, James H., "Burdens of War and Memories of Home: An 
                                   Indiana
                               Woman in World War II," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Fall 2007).
                         ----- "Wearing Lipstick to War: An American Woman in World
                              War II 
                                   England
                               and 
                                   France
                              ," Prologue: Quarterly of the
                                   National Archives and Records Administration, 39 (Fall
                              2007).
                         Mackey, Mary, "The Notorious Mrs. Winston and
                              Morgan's Raid: Fact and Fiction," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Fall 2007).
                         Miller, Tyagan, and Yusef Komunyakaa, Covenant: Scenes
                                   from an African American Church (
                                   Bloomington
                              : Indiana University Press, 2007).
                         Moore, Wilma L., "Behind the Reference Desk: Researchers and
                              Resources," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Fall 2007).
                         ------"Everyday People: William M.S. 'Red'
                              Myers Jr.," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Fall 2007).
                         -----"The 
                                   Indianapolis
                               Photography of O. James Fox," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Summer
                              2007).
                         Morgan, Harold B., Home Front Heroes: 
                                        Evansville
                                    and the Tri-State in WWII (
                                   Evansville
                              , 
                                   Ind.
                              : M.T. Publishing Co, 2007).
                         
                         Moss, Richard, "Creating a Jewish American Identity in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              : The Jewish Welfare Federation and the Regulation of
                              Leisure, 1920-1934," Indiana Magazine of
                                   History, 103 (March 2007).
                         Munds, Ellen, and Beth Millett, eds., The Scenic Route:
                                   Stories from the Heartland (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2007).
                         Natali, Bethany, and Geneil Breeze, "'Equality for
                              Agriculture': Records of the Warren County Farm Bureau
                              1918-1932," The Hoosier Genealogist:
                                   Connections, 47 (Issue 1, 2007).
                         Neville, Susan, Sailing the Inland Sea: On Writing,
                                   Literature, and Land (
                                   Bloomington
                              : Quarry Books/Indiana University Press, 2007).
                         Nolt, Steven M., and Thomas J. Meyers, Amish Mosaic:
                                   Shaping Cultural Identities (
                                   Baltimore
                              , 
                                   Md.
                              : Johns Hopkins University Press, 2007).
                         "Novel Ideas," Indiana
                                   Preservationist (January/March 2007). [Several articles
                              concerning historic libraries.]
                         "Observing Local History in 
                                   Indiana
                              : Responses by Rebecca Conard, Jannelle Warren-Findley,
                              and David Glassberg," Indiana Magazine of
                                   History, 103 (December 2007).
                         Orr, Patricia Shires, "The Union Inn, aka Indianapolis
                              Hotel, 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , 1821 to 1836," The Hoosier
                                   Genealogist: Connections, 46 (Issue 4, 2006).
                         Owens, Robert M., "Law and Disorder North of the Ohio: Runaways and
                              the Patriarchy of Print Culture, 1793-1815," Indiana Magazine of History, 103 (September 2007).
                         ---- Mr. Jefferson's Hammer: William Henry
                                   Harrison and the Origins of American Indian Policy (
                                   Norman
                              : University of Oklahoma Press, 2007).
                         Paddock, Geoff, "The Court and The Senator: Birch Bayh and
                              the U.S. Supreme Court," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Winter
                              2007).
                         Palmer, Ann Therese Darin, Thanking Father Ted:
                                   Thirty-Five Years of Notre Dame Coeducation, 1972-2007 (
                                   Kansas City
                              , 
                                   Mo.
                              : Andrews McMeel Pub., LLC, 2007).
                         Price, Nelson, "A Woman at the Brickyard: Bettie Cadou and
                              the Indianapolis Motor Speedway," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Spring
                              2007).
                         Quigley, Barbara, "Focus: The Monon Railroad," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Spring
                              2007).
                         Reed, Kenneth L., History of the 
                                        Evansville
                                   , 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    and 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    Railroad (
                                   Cassville
                              ,
                                   Mo.
                              : Litho Printers & Bindery, 2007).
                         
                         Salstrom, Paul, From Pioneering to Persevering: Family
                                   Farming in 
                                        Indiana
                                    to 1880 (
                                   West Lafayette
                              , 
                                   Ind.
                              : Purdue University Press, 2007).
                         Sandweiss, Eric, "'The Day in Its Color':
                              Charles and Jean Cushman," The Journal of
                                   American History, 94 (June 2007).
                         Schall, Jo Ann, "North Ward Elementary School: The
                              'Training School'," Newsletter
                                   of the North Manchester Historical Society, 24 (November
                              2007).
                         Schmidt, Carolyn I., "Canawlers at Rest: Andrew
                              Downing," The Hoosier Packet, 6 (February
                              2007).
                         Schoonover, Phyllis, "[
                                   Marshall
                                        County
                               Jails,]" The Marshall County
                                   Historical Society Quarterly, 36 (Spring 2007).
                         -----"[
                                   Marshall
                                        County
                               Lakes,]" The Marshall County
                                   Historical Society Quarterly, 36 (Fall 2007).
                         Seay, Scott, "The Shortridge Incident: Christian Theological
                              Seminary as an Agent of Reconciliation," Encounter: A Quarterly Journal of Theological Scholarship,
                              68 (Winter 2007).
                         Shadley, Ben, "Protecting 
                                   Indiana's
                               Heritage," Outdoor 
                                        Indiana
                                   , 72 (January/February 2007). [Indiana Heritage
                              Trust.]
                         Shepard, Randall T., Slavery Cases in the Indiana
                                   Supreme Court: Where Slaves & Former Slaves Found
                                   Hope (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Indiana Supreme Court, 2007).
                         -----State of the Judiciary: "Most Justice
                                   Happens in the County Courthouse" (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : [s.n.], 2007).
                         Sherman, John, and Jeffrey A. Wolin, New Faces at the
                                   Crossroads: The World in Central 
                                        Indiana
                                    ([
                                   Indianapolis
                              ]: International Center of Indianapolis, 2007).
                         Sisson, Richard, Christian Zacher, and Andrew Cayton, eds., The American Midwest: An Interpretive Encyclopedia (
                                   Bloomington
                              : Indiana University Press, 2007).
                         Smith, Jonathan Clark, "Not Southern Scorn but Local Pride:
                              The Origin of the Word Hoosier and 
                                   Indiana's
                               River Culture," Indiana Magazine of
                                   History, 103 (June 2007).
                         Spann, Edward K., "The Artist and the White Whale: Gilbert
                              Wilson and Moby Dick," Traces
                                   of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Fall 2007).
                         Sparger, Jessica, "
                                   Indiana
                               Superlatives: Size Matters," Outdoor 
                                        Indiana
                                   , 72 (March/April 2007).
                         Stern, Alexandra Minna, "'We Cannot Make a Silk
                              Purse Out of a Sow's Ear': Eugenics in the Hoosier
                              Heartland," Indiana Magazine of History,
                              103 (March 2007).
                         
                         Sumner, Gregory, "'The Gentleman from 
                                   Indianapolis
                              ': Kurt Vonnegut, 1922-2007," Indiana Magazine of History, 103 (September
                              2007).
                         Thomas, Elmer, "'Forty Years a
                              Legislator': Memoir of a Hoosier Boyhood," Indiana Magazine of History, 103 (December
                              2007).
                         Towne, Stephen E., ed., A Fierce, Wild Joy: The Civil
                                   War Letters of Colonel Edward J. Wood, 48th Indiana Volunteer
                                   Infantry Regiment (
                                   Knoxville
                              , 
                                   Tenn.
                              : University of Tennessee Press, 2007).
                         Tuohy, Martin, "Researching Hoosier Family History at the
                              National Archives-Great Lakes Region, 
                                   Chicago
                              : Federal Land Records 1807-1858," The Hoosier Genealogist: Connections, 47 (Issue 1,
                              2007).
                         Turnley, David C., and Peter Turnley, McClellan
                                   Street (
                                   Bloomington
                              : Indiana University Press, 2007).
                         Vonnegut, Kurt, et al., Mustard Gas and Roses: The Life
                                   & Works of Kurt Vonnegut, 1922-2007 (
                                   Bloomington
                              : Lilly Library, Indiana University, 2007). [Published in
                              conjunction with an exhibition, Mustard Gas and Roses, at the Lilly
                              Library, June 29-Sept. 8, 2007.]
                         Walker, Amy, "Civic Temples of Brick and Stone: Preserving 
                                   Indiana's
                               Historic Courthouses," Outdoor 
                                        Indiana
                                   , 72 (September/October 2007).
                         Warren, Stanley, "The Bethel African Methodist Episcopal
                              Church," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Summer
                              2007).
                         Weber, Catherine E. Forrest, "'All in All To
                              Me': Robert Louis Stevenson and his American
                              Family," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Spring
                              2007).
                         White, Joseph M., Worthy of the Gospel of Christ: A
                                   History of the Catholic Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend:
                                   Commemorating the 150th Anniversary of the Diocese and Catholic
                                   Life in Northern 
                                        Indiana
                                    (
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                              , 
                                   Ind.
                              : The Diocese, 2007).
                         Whiting, Charles A., "Canawlers at Rest: Omer
                              Tousey," The Hoosier Packet, 6 (July
                              2007).
                         Williams, David, "The Ferguson Brothers and Indiana
                              Avenue," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Summer
                              2007).
                         Williams, Tom W, The Ghosts of Jungle Park: History,
                                   Myth, and Legend, the Story of a Place Like No Other (
                                   Temperance
                              , 
                                   Mich.
                              : Woodangett Press, 2007).
                         Wissing, Douglas, "This Rash Adventure: Ezra Pound at Wabash
                              College," Traces of 
                                        Indiana
                                    and Midwestern History, 19 (Fall 2007).
                         Wolfsie, Dick, 
                                        Indiana
                                    Curiosities: Quirky Characters, Roadside Oddities,
                                   & Other Offbeat Stuff (
                                   Guilford
                              , 
                                   Conn.
                              : Insiders' Guide, 2007).
                         
                         Woodsmall, Harry, "Letter from Antietam," 
                                        Owen
                                             County
                                   , Indiana Magazine of History &
                                   Genealogy, 17 (Winter 2008). [Civil War veteran visits
                              Antietam Battlefield eleven years later. Article appeared in the
                              September 18, 1873 issue of the Owen County
                              Journal.]
                         Young, Julie, A Belief in Providence: A Life of Saint
                                   Theodora Guerin (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2007).
                         Zahl, David A., 125 Years of 
                                        Indiana
                                    Pharmacy: A History of 
                                        Indiana's
                                    Pharmacist Association (
                                   Indianapolis
                              : Indiana Pharmacists Alliance, 2007).
                    
               
          
          
               
               
               
          
     
