
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 47, Issue 4, pages 321-433. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:47+issue:4+year:1951&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Mr. Lincoln Goes to 
                        Washington
                    
            
            Paul Fatout∗
            The inaugural train, carrying the President-elect, accompanied by 
                        Illinois
                     lawyers and politicians, army officers, the Western Union superintendent with a pocket
                    telegraph instrument, press correspondents, secretaries, and others, left 
                        Springfield
                     at eight o'clock on the rainy Monday morning of February 11, 1861.1 The talkative bustle in the swaying cars lifted Lincoln's spirits out
                    of the sadness that had clouded his leave-taking and his moving farewell address. "The
                    party, from all we can learn," said the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, "was a very pleasant one and Mr. Lincoln was in his best
                    anecdotal mood."2 For the vinous the trip boded well, one reporter
                    noting that "Refreshments for the thirsty are on board."3
                    Twenty miles out of 
                        Springfield
                     the pilot engine, scouting ahead for sabotage, found a stake and rider rail fence built
                    across the right-of-way by boys, who thus hoped to catch a glimpse of the Railsplitter. The track
                    was quickly cleared, however, without delaying the presidential train, which arrived at the State
                    Line about noon.
            Awaiting it there was a committee of seven members of the Indiana legislature, together with the
                    Honorable John L. Mansfield. Having left 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Saturday, this delegation had spent Sunday in 
                        Lafayette
                    , attending the Presbyterian church in a body, and also accepting the invitation of
                    "the gentlemanly proprietor of the Artesian bath-house, … 
                  
                     ∗ Paul Fatout is a member of the department of English at
                            Purdue University, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Among numerous rosters of the inaugural party, see James G. Randall
                                Lincoln the President (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1945), I, 274-275; Carl Sandburg Lincoln, The War Years (4
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1939), I, 35-36; and 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, Daily Courier, February 11, 1861.
                  
                     2 February 12, 1861.
                  
                     3
                            Lincoln on the Eve of '61. A Journalist's Story by Henry
                                Villard, edited by Harold G. and Oswald Garrison Villard (
                                New York
                            , 1941), 74.
               
                     to visit his establishment and test the cleansing and healing
                    virtues of the water, without money or price … ."4 Well
                    scrubbed, body and soul, the reception committee met the inaugural train, and the chairman, General
                    George K. Steele, welcomed the President-elect to Indiana. Lincoln replied: "Gentlemen of
                    Indiana; I am happy to meet you on this occasion, and enter again the state of my early life, and
                    almost of maturity. I am under many obligations to you for your kind reception, and to Indiana for
                    the aid she rendered our cause which, I think, a just one. Gentlemen, I shall address you at greater
                    length at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but not much greater. Again gentlemen, I thank you for your warm hearted
                        reception."5
            
            After a hurried dinner at the State Line Hotel the party, augmented by the Hoosiers, rolled on over
                    the Valley Road at thirty miles an hour toward 
                        Lafayette
                    —past Williams-port, Attica, and Maysville, past cheering clusters of people,
                    waving villagers and farmers. To Republicans, the inaugural journey of a trainload of adherents was
                    a justifiable tour of triumph. Others eyed it disapprovingly. "We think it in bad taste for
                    the President elect to make a 'progress' through the country," said the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel. "It would be more in accordance of what was told us of Mr.
                    Lincoln during the canvass if he would take his carpet-sack in his hand and go to 
                        Washington
                     like a private citizen, than to suffer himself to be made a show of by office seekers
                    and pot-house politicians."6 The 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Journal also objected: "Abraham Lincoln … will visit 
                        Indianapolis
                    … . invited there by the Republican wire workers and office seekers and the
                    people will have to pay the bill… . [at] a time like this, when the country is moaning in
                    agony and the angry billows of faction are … threatening to destroy it … it
                    would be much more becoming in Republicans to let Mr. Lincoln pass quietly on his way to 
                        Washington
                     … ."7 Nevertheless the Indiana citizenry turned
                    out in large numbers, and regardless of party, to see this enigmatic and provocative man.
            
               
                  4
                        
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana, Daily Journal, February 11, 1861.
               
                  5
                        
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana, Daily Courier, February 11, 1861.
               
                  6 February 2, 1861.
               
                  7 Reprinted in 
                            New Albany
                        , Indiana, Daily Ledger, February 8, 1861.
            
            
            Disgruntled 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Republicans had perforce to accept, though not without grumbling, cancellation of the
                    promised half-day stop at the county seat, likewise rejection of the compromise proposal of William
                    F. Reynolds, President of the L. & I. Railroad: that Mr. Lincoln be "taken in a
                    carriage to the Bramble [House], and after an informal reception and a hasty plate of soup, be again
                    placed on board the special train … the entire programme to occupy but one hour and a
                        quarter."8
            
            The special paused only ten minutes in 
                        Lafayette
                    , but the populace made the most of the short stay. A throng of the curious milled about
                    the Junction—"about two thousand," said the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier; "5,000 or 6,000," said the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal. When the train hove in sight, the 
                        Lafayette
                     Artillery Company, commanded by Lieutenant (and county auditor) Chris Miller, began
                    banging away with a brass field piece named "Old 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ," allegedly the first gun in the Union to sound off in celebration of the
                    Republican victory the preceding November. The gun crew, ably assisted by an agile
                    seventy-five-year-old veteran known as Captain Wood, fired a national salute of thirteen guns,
                    followed by a Federal salute of thirty-four, and so satisfactory was the uproar that farmers north
                    of Delphi heard it twenty-four miles away.
            Lincoln, introduced by General Steele, preserved his shutmouth policy in brief and homely remarks
                    about the great changes that had occurred during his lifetime in the Middle West, and concluded with
                    a generalized appeal for unity: "I find myself far from home surrounded by the thousands I
                    now see before me, who are strangers to me. Still we are bound together, I trust in Christianity,
                    civilization and patriotism, and are attached to our country and our whole country. While some of us
                    may differ in political opinions, still we are all united in one feeling for the Union. We all
                    believe in the maintenance of the Union, of every star and every stripe of the glorious flag, and
                    permit me to express the sentiment that upon the union of the States, there shall be among us no
                    differences … ."9
            
            
               
                  8
                        
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana, Daily Courier, February 7, 1861. The shell of the
                        Bramble House, which has long since ceased to be a hostelry, still stands on the southeast
                        corner of Fifth and 
                            Columbia
                         Streets.
               
                  9
                        Ibid., February 11, 1861.
            
            
            Political bias colored opinions of the impression he made upon his audience. "Our
                    citizens," observed the Republican 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal, "were all agreeably disappointed in the personal appearance of
                    the President elect. Instead of finding him an old and ill-looking individual, the universal remark
                    was that he was much younger looking and more impressive … . He certainly has a most
                    irresistible manner which at once convinces the hearer that he is uttering the sentiments of an
                    honest heart in a marvellously simple way."10 On the other hand, the
                    Democratic 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Argus sneered: "The long looked for agony is over—Honest Old
                    Abe … exhibited himself to our citizens at half price. He spoke—actually
                    opened his mouth and spoke (what condescension) and said fellow citizens—I am glad to see
                    you, and presume you are glad to see me. I see their [sic] is no difference between us (laughter from the ladies). I love this whole Union—all the states and all the stars. After thus exhausting himself
                    he bowed to the crowd [sic], and crab fashion, entered the cars, when the train
                    moved away for 
                        Indianapolis
                     amidst enthusiastic cheers from the assembled dozens."11
            
            Indiana railroads and others involved in the route to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     had tendered Lincoln "a special train of cars … to run at such time
                    as will suit your convenience. One car to be set apart for yourself and suit [sic]
                    free of charge."12 The inaugural entourage, further reinforced by five 
                        Lafayette
                     citizens—William F. Reynolds, Joseph Hanna, Cyrus Ball, James P. Luse, and
                    William S. Lingle—left promptly at the scheduled two-forty P.M.
            The trip to the capital was enlivened by mildly absurd contretemps, which the opposition press
                    gleefully publicized. At Thorntown, Lincoln, apropos of his leisurely progress toward 
                        Washington
                    , embarked on a rambling yarn about a 
                  
                     10 February 12, 1861. Other Indiana editors similarly complimented
                            Lincoln: "a much better looking man than he is generally represented to
                            be… . The play of his features … bespeaks a man of soul and
                            sensibility." Centreville, Indiana True Republican, February 14,
                            1861; "His countenance … is winning, pleasing and interesting
                            … the stranger reads humor, honesty, firmness and intelligence in every
                            lineament." 
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, Journal, February 16, 1861.
                  
                     11 February 14, 1861.
                  
                     12 Sol Meredith to Lincoln, January 26, 1861, Robert Todd Lincoln
                            Collection, 6770-6771. Microfilm, 
                                New York
                             State Library, 
                        Albany, New York
                     . Newspaper accounts note a
                            change of engines at 
                                Lafayette
                            , but none in the makeup of the train.
               
                     political candidate whose horse was so slow that he did not
                    arrive at the scene of the nominating convention until it had adjourned. He was much amused when the
                    train pulled out before he reached the nub of this joke, and at 
                        Lebanon
                     "he was jocularly told that some of the Thorntown folks had followed
                    … on foot, and were panting outside to hear the conclusion of the story."13 He good-humoredly tried it again at 
                        Lebanon
                    , and this time finished. At Zionsville the train rumbled to a stop at a water tank a
                    hundred yards or so past the station. Whereupon the waiting people took out after it in whooping
                    confusion, some plunging into the deep mud of the ditch on one side of the tracks, some tripping
                    into the deep mud of the beaten path on the other side, and being trampled by the pounding feet of
                    heedless neighbors. The sturdy survivors galloped to the rear platform and drowned out
                    Lincoln's remarks by yelling, "How are you, old boy? How are you, Abe?"
                    at the tops of their voices. "Every station along the road," said the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, "had its crowd—all anxious to see the man whose
                    election to the first office in the gift of a free people has been the cause (whether with reason or
                    not) of the distracted state of the country."14
            
            For two weeks 
                        Indianapolis
                     had prepared and anticipated. A citizens' meeting in late January had extended
                    to Lincoln a formal invitation, which he had formally accepted.15 When citizens
                    gathered again on February 2, the disrespectful 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel reported that the meeting "was patronized by all the seekers for
                    and expectants of Federal offices, and was consequently well attended. It was held at the Court
                    house, and was intensely respectable, and cold, and formal, and lifeless … . The
                    Postoffice applicants—forty-eight in number—looked at the mail agent
                    expectants—fifty-four—who winked at the ten who desired the Marshal-ship, and
                    they nodded to the twenty-eight who were after the Land-office …."16 This meeting created a six-man committee of arrangements, which for a week busily and
                        
                  
                     13
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, February 12, 1861.
                  
                     14 Ibid.
                  
                     15 Lincoln to Messrs. James Sulgrove, Eric Locke, William Wallace, and
                            John F. Wood, committee, January 28, 1861, Robert Todd Lincoln Collection, 6800.
                  
                     16 February 4, 1861.
               
                     confusedly arranged, handicapped by faulty liaison with
                    arrangers in 
                        Springfield
                    . Between February 5 and 7 a barrage of frantic letters and telegrams from Governor
                    Oliver P. Morton, General Steele, and committeeman H. H. Connor confessed ignorance of the inaugural
                    itinerary, asked for information, and urged that the party arrive in 
                        Indianapolis
                     not later than four P.M. "Fifty thousand 50000 persons," wired
                    Steele, "will be here to see Mr. Lincoln. Our programme is made for the day
                        time."17
            
            His estimate was no great exaggeration, if any. For this uncitified city the first visit of a
                    President-elect was a gala event of more than carnival proportions. The L. & I. and 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroads had drawn visitors from distant counties by advertising half-fare excursions.
                    By the afternoon of February 11, the skies had cleared, crowds were pouring in, and the city was
                    bedecked. "Black Republicans and Disunionists," stormed the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Weekly Ledger, "hang out the Star Spangled Banner throughout the city
                    to-day, welcoming Abraham Lincoln."18
            
            Arriving in 
                        Indianapolis
                     at five o'clock, the inaugural train stopped at the L. & I.
                    Railroad's 
                        Missouri
                     Street crossing of 
                        Washington
                     Street, salutes thundering, and a thousand cheering people waiting in the mud. In line
                    with the rear platform of the last car were Governor Morton and Mayor Samuel D. Maxwell in a
                    barouche drawn by four white horses "suitably decorated."19
                    From this rostrum the governor welcomed Lincoln, who responded with a brief speech about the
                    salvation of the Union and the people's responsibility for the fate of the country.20 He and General Steele then took their places in the barouche, and a huge
                    parade immediately got under way, moving east on 
                        Washington
                     to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , north to 
                        Ohio
                    , west to 
                        Illinois
                    , and south to the Bates House. Besides the presidential carriage were other carriages
                    bearing 
                  
                     17 G. K. Steele, to Jno. G. Nicolay, February 6, 1861, Robert Todd
                            Lincoln Collection, 7205-7207.
                  
                     18 February 13, 1861, quoting an 
                                Indianapolis
                             dispatch of February 11, 1861.
                  
                     19 The editor of the Centreville, Indiana True
                            Republican, who wrote an eye-witness account (February 14, 1861) said that the barouche
                            contained "Gov. Morton, Hon. Win. Cumback, and two others," but the eyes
                            of this eye-witness must have deceived him.
                  
                     20 For the text of this speech, see George S. Cottman,
                            "Lincoln in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XXIV (1928), 6.
               
                     members of the Indiana Senate and House of Representatives,
                    Indiana Supreme Court judges, city officials, and miscellaneous committees; military
                            units—
                  City Greys, Indianapolis
                National Guard, Independent Zouaves; 
                        Indianapolis City
                     Firemen, several bands, and "Citizens of the State generally."
                    Lincoln "stood erect in the carriage … and courteously acknowledged the welcome
                    received from the fair and brave of the vast concoure [sic] which encompassed the
                    entire route."21
            
            Meanwhile, the committee on arrangements having failed to provide enough carriages, non-parading
                    members of the presidential party lugged their carpet bags to the Bates House on foot. At the hotel,
                    also, arrangements were bungled. "The Bates House is like a bee-hive," wrote Henry
                    Villard, "and standing room can hardly be got anywhere. Only five rooms were provided for
                    the Presidential cortege and they had to submit to doubling up and sleeping three and four in one
                        room."22 Such a disorderly rabble stampeded into the supper room
                    that the neglected Lincoln waited a half hour before anybody remembered to serve him.
            An 
                        Indianapolis
                     citizen named John H. Bradley neatly understated the rackety commotion when, having
                    invited Lincoln and family to stay at the Bradley home, he innocently wrote that "some of
                    us will be at the Train when you come, to show you the way & take charge of Mrs. L, should
                    the Public lay hold of you."23 That "should" is
                    powerful in its naivete. The public laid hold so violently that Lincoln suffered an almost
                    continuous eighteen-hour ordeal of official receptions, speeches made and heard, interminable
                    handshaking—some three thousand lined up for the privilege Monday night—and
                    all the sweaty buffeting that harassed a President on display. Although it was reported that he and
                    his suite were to appear at the theater Monday evening, no evidence shows that he escaped the
                    besieging mob long enough to get there.24
            
            
               
                  21
                        
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana, Daily Courier, February 12, 1861.
               
                  22 Villard and Villard, Lincoln on the Eve of
                        '61, pp. 77-78.
               
                  23 John H. Bradley to Lincoln, January 27, 1861, Robert Todd Lincoln
                        Collection, 6782.
               
                  24 See 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, February 11, 1861. The only
                        advertised performance on that day was of the Naid Queen, or The Nymphs of the
                            Rhine.
               
            
            
            For two days a turgid human stream flowed through 
                        Washington
                     Street, surged against the Bates House, and flooded the lobby—amiable
                    gawkers, nagging office seekers, officious committeemen, party functionaries from governor to city
                    councilman. "There did not seem to be any object or aim in the crowd," sniffed the
                        Sentinel, "further than to gratify their curiosity—and
                    there was certainly a total absence of enthusiasm."25 Pickpockets did a
                    lucrative business, lifting a rich harvest of wallets from bemused legislators and others; arrests
                    for drunkenness, however, as the Journal complacently noted, were fewer than
                    usual.
            So relentless were the demands upon the guest of honor that even the hostile Democratic paper
                    extended its sympathy: "Mr. Lincoln, we hope, slept well after the labors of his reception.
                    To be pushed and crowded around as he was, beset by red hot politicians steaming with patriotism and
                    whisky, and to have his hand shaken at the rate it was and for so long a period must certainly have
                    tried his powers of endurance. What time he went to bed on Monday night, or how he slept, or at what
                    hour he arose on yesterday morning, the court chronicler has not informed us …
                        ."26 That Lincoln himself felt the strain of the intense pressure
                    is apparent in a squib reporting that "Since he has witnessed the savage interest taken in
                    Bob and himself, Mr. Lincoln is calling for facts, and is in close consultation with Major Fifer, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , on the momentous question—'Which is the most savage
                    Injuns—the hostile ones or them that go on foot'."27 Lincoln was also reported to have said "that the shaking hands and fatigue of his
                    reception was harder work than mauling rails."28
            
            In his principal 
                        Indianapolis
                     speech, delivered from the balcony of the Bates House at the conclusion of the parade
                    on Monday, he asked questions about possible definitions of the loosely used words,
                    "coercion" and "invasion," stated his belief that federal action
                    to retake national forts and to collect duties did not constitute either coercion or invasion, 
                  
                     25 February 12, 1861. Offsetting this belittling remark is the 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier's "deafening shouts of the thousands
                            … from every part of the State," February 12, 1861.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, February 13, 1861.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., February 18, 1861.
                  
                     28 Centreville, Indiana True Republican, February
                            14, 1861.
               
                     and implied that national government was above that of any
                    state. "On what principle of original right is it that one-fiftieth or one-ninetieth of a
                    great nation, by calling themselves a State, have a right to break up the nation."29 As the first important statement of the inaugural journey, this speech was
                    subjected to searching editorial scrutiny, generally favorable from Republican editors, unfavorable
                    from Democratic. The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Argus snarled that if the speech were a declaration of intentions, "Mr.
                    Lincoln is guilty of a striking lack of dignity as well as of prudence and of justice," but
                    that if it were merely an attempt to sound out public feeling, "his conduct is more
                    befitting a village pettifogger than the President of a dissolving Republic. In either case Mr.
                    Lincoln's remarks are a gross outrage, not only on good taste but the sacred proprieties of
                    his position."30 The 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Weekly Ledger roundly condemned: "Lincoln makes a speech—not
                    as a President elect, responding to an invitation extended by citizens of all parties, but as a
                    Black Republican partizan; not straightforward and manly … but in the shape of questions
                    and innuendoes … . We expressed the hope, a few days ago, that no Democrat would so far
                    forget himself as to join in this hollow ceremony of 'respect' to a man whom they
                    all despise as a narrow minded bigot … "31 The temperate 
                        New York
                    
                    Times succinctly summed up: "It is very evident from his speech at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , that Mr. Lincoln has no sympathy with that theory of our Government which regards it
                    as a voluntary league of sovereign States—from which any one of them may secede at
                        pleasure."32
            
            The Times hit the nail squarely. Lincoln's method of asking, without
                    answering, a series of questions, puzzled and irritated some commentators, yet the drift of those
                    questions was so plain that to the perceptive the speech was perfectly clear. It imported a resolute
                    purpose as positive as that in Lincoln's famous letters to Horace Greeley of August 22,
                    1862, and to the Workingmen of 
                  Manchester, England
               , 
                  
                     29
                            
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, Daily Courier, February 12, 1861. For the text of
                            this speech, see Cottman, "Lincoln in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIV, 8-9.
                  
                     30 February 21, 1861.
                  
                     31 February 13, 1861.
                  
                     32 February 13, 1861.
               
                     of January 19, 1863. That purpose was to save the Union. He
                    seemed to his opponents "a narrow minded bigot" because he firmly rejected
                    "peaceable separation"—likewise compromise on the extension of slavery.
            Between the two parties, each professing Union sentiments, was a deep, unbridgeable gulf.33 Militant partisanship extended to minutiae. Illustrative are the
                    contradictory stories of a minor 
                        Indianapolis
                     incident involving the Reverend J. W. T. McMullen, who spoke impromptu from the Bates
                    House balcony Tuesday morning. Said the Democratic Sentinel: "a fanatical
                    Methodist … a ranting orator who preaches impulsive sermons composed of eloquent thoughts
                    thrown together without … connection—glittering pearls … from the
                    broken thread of a brilliant fancy that never had a balance pole to sustain it… . what he
                    said … was distasteful to a portion of the crowd who hissed their disapprobation
                    … ."34 Said the Republican Journal:
                    "Rev. J. W. T. McMullen… entertained the vast concourse … with some
                    very sensible remarks which were eloquently uttered and well received."35
            
            Preceding departure for 
                        Cincinnati
                     at eleven A.M. February 12, Lincoln breakfasted with the governor at the gubernatorial
                    mansion, by-passed the scheduled visit to the Indiana legislature, and weathered a resumption of
                    Monday's hubbub. Delegations from the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature and from the city of 
                        Cincinnati
                     were on hand to take over the escorting detail. People started hanging around the Bates
                    House at daybreak, assembling in such numbers that Lincoln was once again introduced from the
                    balcony. When he finally struggled to his carriage, so determined a horde of handshakers swarmed
                    around that the driver had great difficulty getting down Meridian Street to the railroad station,
                    where a jostling jam waited "to see as much as possible of the lion of the day."
                    The presidential coach was handsomely decorated with flags and a gilt image of the American eagle:
                    the boiler of the locomotive, named the "Samuel Wiggins," festooned with
                    evergreens, ribbons, and miniature flags; the headlight adorned with lithographs of the presidents;
                    the 
                  
                     33 For an illuminating survey of that gulf, see Allan Nevins, The Emergence of Lincoln (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1950).
                  
                     34 February 13, 1861.
                  
                     35 February 13, 1861.
               
                     smokestack encircled by thirty-four white stars on a blue
                    field.
            The line to 
                        Cincinnati
                     was well guarded by a watchman every half mile, each man equipped with an American flag
                    that he waved as a signal that the track was clear and safe. Two-minute stops at 
                        Shelbyville
                     and 
                        Greensburg
                     allowed time only for Lincoln's appearance on the rear platform, a bow to the
                    people, and a word of thanks. If the presidential suite were somewhat jaded after the rugged
                    experience in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , animation was supplied by the vivacious conversation of Mrs. Lincoln, who had come
                    aboard there with sons Willie and Tad. One of the boys "amused himself by asking outsiders,
                    'Do you want to see "Old Abe",' and then pointing to somebody
                        else."36
            
            From Morris, a small town in 
                        Ripley County
                    , the train was reported as arriving "without detention. 37
                    At Lawrence-burg, the last stop in Indiana, flags and banners hung over the rails, and Lincoln made
                    a short speech to the "enthusiastic multitude." He hoped they were all Union men,
                    promised to protect the rights of citizens on both sides of the Ohio River, and
                    once again urged the people to assert their power in choosing public officers. "If the
                    people remain right, your public men can never betray you," he said: "If, in my
                    brief term of public office, I shall be wicked or foolish, if you remain right, and true, and
                    honest, you cannot be betrayed. My power is temporary and fleeting—yours is as eternal as
                    the principle of liberty. Cultivate and protect that sentiment, and your ambitious leaders will be
                    reduced to the position of servants instead of masters."38
            
            One 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     incident gave the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel another hilarious opportunity. When Lincoln retired after his short
                    speech, the crowd shouted, "Come back, come back!" That—as the paper
                    told the story—was misinterpreted as a curtain call by Will Cumback, elector at large for
                    Indiana, who "felt that he, among all the distinguished 
                  
                     36 William E. Baringer, A House Dividing
                                    (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , 1945), 272.
                  
                     37
                            Lincoln Lore (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, April 15, 1929-), No. 272 (June 25, 1934), says: "It is
                            evident that the presidential train stopped at Morris," but the evidence is not
                            apparent. Possibly the telegraph operator there was merely reporting safe passage.
                  
                     38 For the text of the body of this speech, see William T.
                            Cogge-shall, The Journeys of Abraham Lincoln (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1865), 30.
               
                     men who were present, if not first was at
                    least second in the hearts of his countrymen … . He … took
                    the place which had been occupied by the new President, uncovered his Websterian forehead, smiled
                    and bowed … to what he thought was an admiring … assembly … . But
                    alas! how fickle is popular favor … one universal shout went up …
                    'get out of the way, Will Cumback, we want to see Old Abe.' And
                    Mr. Cumback subsided. His light was suddenly extinguished. He was snuffed out
                    … . He thought Presidential parties did not amount to any particular sum in good
                        funds."39
            
            The train moved away from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     "amid salutes, music, and tremendous cheering," and shortly
                    thereafter entered 
                        Ohio
                    , where Cincinnatians labored to outdo 
                        Indianapolis
                     in nonstop handshaking and general exhaustion. After something over twenty-four
                    tumultuous hours in Indiana, Lincoln left the state, not to return until his funeral train brought
                    him back over the same route in 1865.
            
               
                  39 February 21, 1861. This sort of harmless raillery eventually hardened
                        into subversive opposition. Sixteen months later Governor Morton cited the Sentinel as one of several papers "doing incalculable injury to the Union cause
                        … by insidious, malignant and vituperative attacks upon Union men …
                        ." See O. P. Morton to Secretary Stanton, June 25, 1862, Robert Todd Lincoln
                        Collection, 16630-16639.
            
         
         
         
            The Indiana Scene in the 1840's
            Roger H. Van Bolt∗
            
            Indiana in 1840 was a mixture of similar and dissimilar elements. No general description of
                    population, sources of immigration, soil, climate, agriculture, or attitudes can be applied to the
                    entire state; yet in spite of the fact that Indiana presented a picture of dissimilarities, there
                    were many fundamental conformities which tied the state into a cohesive unit.
            Indiana can best be described by treating separately each of its three natural sections: the
                    southern, the central, and the northern portions.
            In 1840, more than four-fifths of the people of Indiana lived in the southern half of the state. A
                    belt of counties in the southeastern section had an average of forty-five persons per square
                    mile—a family for about every one hundred acres. Most of the remainder of the southern
                    half of the state had an average of eighteen to forty-five inhabitants per square mile. The relative
                    compactness of population can be shown by the fact that one-half of the settlers lived within
                    seventy-five miles of the Ohio River.1
            
            Geographically, southern Indiana is bounded on the south by the only natural state boundary of any
                    consequence— the Ohio River. Rather than setting off Indiana as a
                    discrete unit, this great stream merely dissects a large soil region; there is no important
                    difference in the physiography of the region on either side of the river, for southern Indiana is an
                    extension of the soil regions of the Appalachian Uplands.
            In southeastern Indiana, the topography is much like that of the Outer Bluegrass Region of 
                        Kentucky
                    . The south central part of the state consists of an upland limestone belt, which is
                    part of a greater soil region embracing the Valley of 
                        Virginia
                     and extending northward into 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Maryland
                     and westward into 
                        Kentucky
                     and central 
                        Tennessee
                    . The topography is undulating or strongly rolling. It is 
                  
                     ∗ Roger H. Van Bolt, is director of the 
                                Illinois
                             Junior Historian of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library, 
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     .
                            This article is a chapter of his Ph.D. dissertation at the University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1950, written under the direction of Avery O. Craven.
                  
                     1 Stephen S. Visher "Population Changes in Indiana,
                            1840-1940," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1891-), LI (1942), 182; Compendium of the … Sixth
                                Census, 80-81.
               
                     a region of caverns, sinkholes, and underground streams,
                    unglaciated for the most part in Indiana.2 Southwestern Indiana is made up a
                    rugged section extending away from the river, characterized by a great diversity of surface
                    features. It is an area which has never been able to support a large population.
            Collectively, these areas extend side by side like long fingers in a north-south direction away from
                    the river. Into these fingers had gone the bulk of Indiana's population by 1840.
            That the settlers wandered here first is not surprising. First, southern Indiana bordered the more
                    heavily populated areas of 
                        Kentucky
                    . By 1818, emigrants' handbooks advised their readers that "
                        Kentucky
                     has passed the era of rapid increase from emigration. The best lands are sold and have
                    become expensive." Indiana, on the other hand, was described to the prospective settler
                    with glowing praise. "It may be doubted whether any state of the 
                        United States
                    , all things duly considered, can present more advantages than Indiana. Intersected or
                    bounded in all directions by navigable rivers or lakes, enjoying a temperate climate and an immense
                    variety of soil. Near two-thirds of its territorial surface is yet in the hands of the Indians, a
                    temporary evil, that a short time will remedy."3
            
            Second, the natural routes of migration led to southern Indiana. They were varied in character and
                    often were not normal in the sense of direction. By 1818, the National Road was available as far as
                            
                  Wheeling, West
                        Virginia
               , where water transportation down the 
                        Ohio
                     could be used. Other settlers came down the Kanawha River to reach the westward flowing 
                        Ohio
                    . Of great importance to Indiana was the old Wilderness Road across 
                        Kentucky
                     to 
                        Lexington
                    , Bards-town, and 
                        Louisville
                    . The Scott Lowland in 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana, formed one prominent funnel through which emigrants passed on their way into
                    the interior of the state.
            Third, Indiana was a familiar region to the people from across the Ohio River.
                    The soil, the forests, the valleys away from the river were not foreign to the prospective citizens
                        
                  
                     2 U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soils and Men: Yearbook
                                of Agriculture, 1938, p. 1047; Clyde A. Malott, "The Physiography of
                            Indiana," Handbook of Indiana Geology (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922), 98-102.
                  
                     3 William Darby, The Emigrant's Guide to the
                                Western and Southwestern States and Territories (
                                New York
                            , 1818), 207, 215.
               
                     of the state—he was inclined to look upon the river
                    not as a dividing line but more as an obstacle to be crossed in the search for new opportunities.
                    The physical difficulty of crossing the wide stream was its most stubborn feature. In all else, it
                    was more of a unifying force for the section and at the same time a doorway to the outside world.
            By 1850 the rate of immigration in the lower counties of Indiana was declining. The more favorable
                    lands had been taken up in an area having a limited number of acres that could be cultivated
                    successfully. This slowing down of immigration was due, however, not so much to the lack of
                    available land as to the changes which had taken place in the section of the country which had been
                    the source of settlement. Chief among these were the social and economic changes that had occurred
                    in the Upland South itself. The extension of the plantation system to the Piedmont, pushing the
                    yeomen farmers further west and north, had been decelerated. Furthermore, the path of migration for
                    many had shifted to the new Southwest, to the growing and flush cotton kingdom. Soil exhaustion had
                    in part completed its task of sending men out to seek newer and more fertile lands to exploit.4 The extension of slavery into the upland areas of the South resulted in
                    migration movements away from the institution; this was illustrated particularly by the Quakers who
                    moved north across the 
                        Ohio
                     and on to the West.
            A quantitative analysis of the population of Indiana is difficult to accomplish. Sources of
                    information are incomplete and, more important, are of a misleading character. The census reports
                    show merely the birthplace of the residents of any state, disregarding the interim residences
                    between the time of their birth and the year of the census. Nor is the age of the migrant considered
                    in the published reports. For many people, this means that the states which had had the greatest
                    influence in molding the character of the migrants are not indicated—only the place of
                    birth is revealed.
            In order to by-pass some of the dangers of the use of census statistics, a study was made by Joseph
                    E. Lay ton to determine as nearly as possible to what counties in Indiana 
                  
                     4 John D. Barnhart, "Sources of Southern Migration into the
                            Old Northwest," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                                Review (
                        Cedar Rapids, Iowa
                     , 1914-), XXII (1935-1936),
                        54-59.
               
                     the immigrants came, using as a basis for his information the
                    Land Office Reports and local history sources. The place of last residency, not nativity, was given
                    preference, for it was assumed that the influence of the area from which the settler had migrated
                    had had a greater influence on his social and political attitudes than the factor of nativity,
                    unless the two coincided.5
            
            Layton's method was essentially a sampling technique. The total number of persons coming to
                    the various counties from outside sources found in the study was 82,135. According to the 
                        United States
                     census reports for 1850, Indiana had 462,684 inhabitants who had been born outside the
                    boundaries of the state.6 The fact that this study located settlers according to
                    counties was of great value in the determination of trends of settlement. Layton's chief
                    point of variance with the census statistics was that he credited a higher percentage of Indiana
                    residents as having come from 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    .7 This would conform with the typical emigration patterns of the
                    period, in which newer areas often drew a great portion of their populations from sources close at
                    hand.
            Sharply defined areas of distribution of the elements of Indiana's population cannot be
                    drawn. There were Virginians at 
                        Michigan City
                     and New Englanders in 
                        Evansville
                    . However, certain patterns can be distinguished.8
            
            In the upland areas of southern Indiana, which was in many respects a greater 
                        Kentucky
                     or 
                        North Carolina
                    , opportunity was similar to that which had existed a generation before in the Upper
                    South. The climate and soil were not singularly incongruous to the past experiences of the farmer.
                    The old crops could be grown in the new soil. In 
                  
                     5 Joseph E. Layton, "Sources of Population in Indiana,
                            1816-1850" (Master's thesis, Department of History, The University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1921), 1-3.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 3.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 40-42.
                  
                     8 The more important monographs on the sources of Indiana's
                            population are: William O. Lynch, "The Flow of Colonists to and from Indiana before
                            the Civil War," Indiana. Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XI (1915), 1-7; Visher, "Population Changes in Indiana,
                            1840-1940," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science, LI,
                            179-193; W. H. Henry, "Some Elements of Indiana's Population: Or Roads
                            West and Their Early Travelers," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895-), IV (1908), 375-396; Robert LaFollette, "Interstate Migration
                            and Indiana Culture," 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review, XVI (1929-1930), 347-358.
               
                     other words, there could be in Indiana a repetition of the
                    experiences of the past in the South.
            Life north of the Ohio River had a sameness about it as compared to what it had
                    been back on the old farm. For many settlers, the economy was one of subsistence. The river bottoms
                    and stream terraces produced a variety of products, only a few of which could be harvested in
                    quantities sufficient to provide an easily transportable surplus for marketing or trading. Whisky,
                    corn, and hogs were among these few. Agriculture was not often booming and fruitful, nor was it
                    always progressive, although many unsuccessful efforts were made to find an agricultural bonanza in
                    a new crop. By 1845, the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Gazette had noticed that farming in 
                        Knox County
                     in particular had been retreating for thirty years. "The largest portion of
                    our farmers are acquainted with only one rotation of crops, poor corn, poorer corn, poorest corn;
                    then mean oats, then an excuse for wheat, and then poor corn again. But hard times all the
                        while!"9
            
            For the most part, agricultural production in the generally rugged area of southern Indiana,
                    especially in the limestone belt, was limited. It did not require years of development to accomplish
                    a maximum expansion. The unglaciated, fertile soil belts hemmed in by rough terrain determined the
                    extent of the clearings. When the hillsides were bared, farmers could label these patches
                    "ten-year soil"—they could be cultivated for that period, but with the approach
                    of the eleventh year, the soil would be depleted by erosion.10
            
            In many respects, then, the mode of living, the economy, and society were not much unlike what they
                    had been in 1830, nor what they would be in 1850.
            The upland farmers who wandered into the newer region north of the Ohio River
                    carried with them the influence of the Democratic corridor that extended from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to 
                        Virginia
                     and the Carolinas. Their attitudes were those of a yeoman world.11
                    Once settled on the new farms in the 
                  
                     9
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Gazette, quoted in The Indiana Farmer and Gardener (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1845-1848), I, 96. The name of this periodical was changed to The
                                Western Farmer and Gardener in 1846.
                  
                     10 Stephen S. Visher, "Indiana Regional Contrasts in Soil
                            Erosion and Their Chief Causes," Proceedings of the Indiana
                            Academy of Science, XLVI (1937), 158.
                  
                     11 Barnhart, "Sources of Southern Migration into the Old
                            Northwest," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, XXII, 54.
               
                     Northwest, there were no opportunities to continue old ties
                    which could furnish new threads for the social pattern. Apparently there were no great commercial
                    links back to the older points of departure; rather, the avenues of communication, narrow at their
                    best, were toward newer areas. Since emigration from the Upland South was not a continuing process,
                    there were few new agents from the old home culture.
            During this period, the nation was made up of sections within sections, and the South was no
                    exception. There were many Souths. The South with which trade and communication was established was
                    that of 
                        New Orleans
                     and the Gulf Plains, although the Upland Piedmont migrants to Indiana had never known
                    this area intimately. The Ohio River as an artery of communication had turned
                    the interests of the Lower Northwest toward new markets, not back to the Valley of 
                        Virginia
                     or the Blue Grass Basin. The Wilderness Road and the Kanawha River, for example, served
                    people principally, not goods, and for a one-way journey.12 One reason for this
                    lack of communication with the older regions was that there was little opportunity to sell and
                    profit in trade with an area that was in a competitive position.
            The migrants to Indiana from the South arrived in the greatest numbers at a time when the region from
                    which they had departed also thought of itself as the West—inhabitants of these upland
                    areas considered themselves western men whether they resided in 
                  North
                            Carolina, Kentucky
               , or
                    Indiana. Thus it seemed natural to them to transplant institutions and attitudes from one pioneer
                    settlement to another, with the result that in Indiana there was a repetition of the frontier social
                    and economic processes. Each jump meant a beginning again. Given a somewhat similar environment all
                    along the route of advancement, cultural patterns persisted. That this should occur was more or less
                    a necessity, for the new problems of gaining a foothold in a raw wilderness were in reality old
                    problems which had been met along the road before.
            Thus the political, social, and economic attitudes were those of an Upland South which had already
                    lost some of 
                  
                     12 There was some trade in hogs and cattle which were driven back over
                            the mountains to the Piedmont. The volume of this trade was small and it continued for only
                            a short time.
               
                     these concepts through internal change. In a sense, the
                    attitudes of these peoples who had come to Indiana were the attitudes, not of the contemporary
                    mother region, but of the mother region of the past. Isolated in many localities, traditions
                    remained uncontaminated, and the economic needs and desires of these settlers remained nearly
                    constant. Among these needs were: good market outlets, adequate currency, fertile land, equality in
                    taxation, and, in general, new material opportunities. The political demands that resulted had a
                    certain common basis that resembled much older claims expressed years before. In a sense, the
                    stresses and strains had moved westward.
            However, although these people had brought with them the traditions and attitudes and problems of the
                    South, it does not necessarily follow that they were pro southern, for they had
                    come, not from the South, but from an older West. The problems of the contemporary
                    South were not necessarily their problems, and so it was possible for them to be indifferent to many
                    of them. Nor did they feel obliged to agree with all elements in the life of a southerner. Thus
                    Indiana settlers could disagree with southern ways as readily as they could find fault with ways of
                    life that existed in the East or even right in their own vicinity. These immigrant farmers disdained
                    the planter who did not toil with his own hands, observing there was "a difference between
                        farming and planting. One supports a family; the other supports pride, until pride gets a fall."13 The financial successes of the eastern capitalists were criticized just as
                    vehemently. "Money makes money, and it is by speculation, and not by labor, that men become
                    rich. Society is wrong. Labor instead of money ought to be made the capital," wrote one
                    Hoosier editor.14 The Indiana farmer could not, by the same token, condone those
                    in his own community who had not acquired material wealth and social status through their own
                    physical exertions. The local press could rant against "the white fingered, and perhaps light fingered, fops and dandy lawyers of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , many of whom never did an honest days work in all their lives; who are the drones of
                        
                  
                     13
                            The Indiana Farmer and Gardener, I, 72.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , Indiana Register, April 15, 1848.
               
                     the social hive, and live in luxury and laziness on the fruits
                    of the toiling millions."15
            
            It would seem that his attitude toward the Negro shaped itself in much the same manner. He did not
                    like either slavery or the free Negro. Rather than frowning on the moral aspects of the situation,
                    he looked down from a plateau of unconcern at the political and economic evils of the presence of
                    the Negro unless they impinged upon his well-being.
            By 1850, the southern section of Indiana was at the peak of its influence. It was an ideal
                    representation of the culture of the Ohio River world.
            The central counties of Indiana underwent the most significant changes during the two decades before
                    the Civil War. By 1850, about one-half of the population of the state lived in this rich interior
                    section.
            Most of this region is a part of a fertile plain that stretches west from the Scioto basin in 
                        Ohio
                    . Composed of a complex glacial till containing limestones, dolomites, granite, and
                    sandstone, the soils of the area, although not uniformly as fertile as the great prairies to the
                    west, were capable of maintaining their native fertility over a long period of time. The nearly
                    level terrain and the uniformity of rainfall as compared with the ruggedness and the intense rains
                    of southern Indiana, were added benefits to agriculture.16 All of these elements
                    led to a type of agriculture that could be diversified profitably. Large farms were possible since
                    large areas of fertile land were available. It was a region capable of great expansion and of
                    supporting a stable agrarian economy.17
            
            In these fertile plains, the land-hungry farmers found new opportunity. Consequently, there was a
                    rush of settlers from adjacent areas, resulting in a somewhat conglomerate population. The Ohioans
                    poured out of the western and southwestern sections of their state into the Upper White-water 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana State Sentinel, April 4, 1844.
                  
                     16 Visher, "Indiana Regional Contrasts in Soil Erosion and
                            Their Chief Causes," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of
                            Science, XLVI, 158-159. Visher found one-third greater rainfall in southern Indiana than in
                            the north. However, the contrasts are sharpened by the fact that the south received nearly
                            one-half of its rainfall during the cooler eight months of the year when runoff is more
                            destructive. Furthermore, southern Indiana had more downpours and consecutive days of heavy
                            rain than did northern Indiana.
                  
                     17
                            Soils and Men, 960.
               
                     and White River valleys and over to the
                    Upper 
                        Wabash
                    . By 1880, 
                  Warren, Tippecanoe, Montgomery
               , and 
                        Fountain
                     counties, in particular, were heavily populated by settlers whose last residence had
                    been the Buckeye State. The counties more adjacent to 
                        Ohio
                    , surrounding 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and the Upper Maumee, were also heavily settled by Ohioans. From the south came many
                    Kentuckians who journeyed up the 
                        Wabash
                     and White rivers, fanning out on the central plains to establish
                    farms north of the National Road. Some Quakers moved here from the Whitewater Valley, and there were
                    Pennsylvanians who settled in significant numbers in Carroll, Cass, and Clinton counties.18
            
            The rapidity of settlement may well have accounted for the heterogeneous origin of the population.
                    When Indiana was admitted to the Union in 1816, the Indians still claimed about two-thirds of the
                    land in the new state. Two years later, they agreed to withdraw north of the 
                        Wabash
                     (the ceded land was generally known as the "New Purchase"). In 1820,
                    the Kickapoo abandoned the state. Thus the 
                        Wabash
                     country was opened as far north as the present site of 
                        Lafayette
                    . By 1825, almost all of the territory south of the 
                        Wabash
                     was organized.19
            
            This great expanse of fertile land which was available for settlement in a relatively short span of
                    years was within easy access of the immigrant farmers. The 
                        Wabash
                     offered one doorway to the interior and the Miami-Whitewater gateway another. This
                    latter avenue of travel was of importance to central Indiana because of the natural pattern of the
                        Ohio River. This great stream bends northwestward on its course to the
                    point where the Great Miami joins it. Thence the 
                        Ohio
                     turns sharply to the southwest. The result is that this most northern reach of the 
                        Ohio
                     offered a convenient approach to the great till plains of the Old Northwest and in
                    particular to central Indiana.20 The National Road which extended across the
                    state by 1834 played its role in making 
                  
                     18 Layton, "Sources of Population in Indiana,
                            1816-1850," pp. 40-42.
                  
                     19 Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1924), I, 260, 271 ff.
                  
                     20 J. E. Switzer, "Some Observations Concerning the
                            Historical Geography of Indiana," Proceedings of the Indiana
                            Academy of Science, LI, 210.
               
                     the interior counties more attractive to settlers as well as
                    less difficult to reach.21
            
            The filling-in process in central Indiana was relatively unhampered by the speculator. This had also
                    been true, though to a lesser degree, of the settlement of southern Indiana where some large-scale
                    speculating had taken place; however, it is doubtful if it had seriously hampered settlement. In
                    central Indiana, most of the land passed directly from the government to actual settlers.22 Thus, in addition to its easy access, the land-seeking farmer found a more
                    democratic land system which offered to him an added inducement to settle in this rich area.
            Another lure to settlement was the prospect of an internal improvements program. Legislative
                    log-rolling resulted in a proposed system of canals, roads, and railroads that would benefit all
                    sections of the state. Indiana, however, was interested primarily in the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal. The proposed route was far north of the bulk of the population; thus
                    there was available land to be taken up by settlers who sensed the possibility of profits in land
                    and in produce.23
            
            However, as in the peopling of many other areas of the Old Northwest where growth was often sporadic,
                    there were spurts of unusual development with intervening lulls.24 In the period
                    from 1840 to 1845, the rapid progress of the settlement of central Indiana was brought to a near
                    halt in part by the collapse of the internal improvements bubble and in part by the economic
                    stagnation that followed the Panic of 1837.25 The funds for the construction of
                    the canal were being provided by monthly payments on the bonds held by eastern financial groups,
                    notably the Morris Canal and Banking Company. The monies received were used by the canal
                    commissioners to meet their engagements with the canal contractors. In the summer of 1839, these
                    companies 
                  
                     21 Lee Burns, "The National Road in Indiana,"
                            Indiana Historical Society Publications, VII (1919), 221.
                  
                     22 Paul Wallace Gates, "Land Policy and Tenancy in the
                            Prairie Counties of Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXV
                            (1939), 5-6, 7.
                  
                     23 Logan Esarey, "Internal Improvements in Early
                            Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications, V (1912), 91,
                            92.
                  
                     24 Joseph E. Schafer, "Peopling the Middle West,"
                                
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Magazine of History (
                                Madison
                            , 1917-), XXI (1937), 87.
                  
                     25 Nathaniel Bolton, "Early 
                                Indianapolis
                             and Central Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications, I (1897), 184.
               
                     were unable to fulfill their contracts because of the
                    stringency in the money market on the eve of the second suspension of the 
                        United States
                     Bank. The result was the stoppage of all the progress with the exception of the
                    construction of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad. Much private indebtedness had been created during the progress of the public
                    works; when operations ceased and prices fell at the same time, the contractors demanded payment and
                    the citizenry sought tax reductions.26 National economic distress, added to an
                    internal financial crisis in which the state found itself unable to meet its debts, acted as a
                    barrier to continued growth of central Indiana.
            However, in the remaining years of the decade, after these economic crises had been alleviated to a
                    large degree, there was another spurt of migration into central Indiana. Some of the stigma of the
                    near repudiation of the state debt was removed by a compromise agreement between the state and its
                    debtors. The work on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal was resumed after the canal was deeded to three trustees, and the
                    bondholders advanced more funds to complete the project. By 1847, the new railroad reached 
                        Indianapolis
                    , providing an outlet for the interior counties.27
            
            The growth of central Indiana during the latter years of the forties has an added significance when
                    the population is considered in the light of its source. It has often been pointed out that Indiana
                    received more of its population from south of the Ohio River than did the
                    neighboring states of the Old Northwest, and in the light of the census statistics, it does appear
                    that Indiana was outstanding among the states of the Northwest in this respect. However, to approach
                    a more accurate view of the settlement of Indiana, it is necessary to consider the role of 
                        Ohio
                     in this process, for by 1850, one-eighth of the citizens of Indiana had been born in
                    the Buckeye State; furthermore, they outnumbered the settlers from the South.28
                    These Ohioans and the southern elements made up the bulk of the population of central Indiana.
            
               
                  26 Reginald C. McGrane, Foreign Bondholders and American
                            State Debts (
                            New York
                        , 1935), 133.
               
                  27
                        Ibid., 139; Bolton, "Early 
                            Indianapolis
                         and Central Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications, I, 184; Jacob Piatt Dunn, 
                            
                                Greater Indianapolis
                            
                         (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1910), I, 148.
               
                  28 Stephen S. Visher, "Indiana's Population, 1850-1940:
                        Sources and Dispersal," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVIII (1942),
                        51-59.
            
            
            The label "Ohioan" is a convenient one, yet it can hardly explain the type of
                    settler who moved into the interior counties of Indiana. It must be remembered that 
                        Ohio
                     was a political grouping of sections; the growth of the state had been in many respects
                    similar to that of Indiana. The southern hill regions had been filled up early with Pennsylvanians,
                    Virginians, and Kentuckians. The area south of the Western Reserve and west of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , often called the "back-bone" counties, included 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Germans and Scots-Irish before 1830, and after that year, large numbers of settlers
                    came from 
                        New York
                    , western 
                  Pennsylvania, Germany
               , and 
                        Ireland
                    .29 There was also the Western Reserve, ruled by the strong hand of
                    the 
                        Connecticut
                     and 
                        New England
                     emigrant.
            The small trickle of emigrants leaving 
                        Ohio
                     in 1828 became a steady stream by 1840. Many went to Indiana. The greatest loss of
                    population by emigration was from the backbone counties where the farmers were from the same stock
                    as were the farmers who had moved on to the more fertile lands of central Indiana. They were,
                    generally speaking, from the same democratic corridor of western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    . Their routes of travel had varied considerably, but they both terminated in the same
                    region. The different elements had adopted different customs, perhaps, and the isolation of their
                    respective worlds had made their interests local in nature; yet wherever the settlers came from,
                    there were certain common ideas and purposes—democracy and individualism among them. In
                    the long process of westward movement, certain signs of distinctiveness were taken on by each wave
                    of emigrants. In the forties in central Indiana, the rush of occupation had thrown many of these
                    individuals together within a short period of time, and a man readily identified his neighbor by the
                    fact that he was a "
                        Kentucky
                    " or "Whitewater" man. Political parties began with these
                    geographical labels. However, in a few years, they were able to fuse into one group after the more
                    superficial peculiarities had worn away.30 Basic issues would expose the common
                        
                  
                     29 Francis P. Weisenberger, The Passing of the Frontier,
                                1825-1850 (
                                Columbus
                            , 1941), 46-48; R. E. Chaddock, "
                                Ohio
                             Before 1850: A Study in the Early Influence of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             and Southern Populations in 
                                Ohio
                            ," 
                                Columbia
                             University Studies in History, Economics and Public Law (
                                New York
                            , 1891-), XXXI (1908), 42-43.
                  
                     30 "Fletcher Papers—Early 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, II (1906),
                        75-78.
               
                     fundamental beliefs among these men that local conflicts had
                    not been able to uncover.
            The agriculture of central Indiana was as varied as was the character of the population. The Indiana Farmer and Gardener in 1845 declared that: "A man must come to the
                    West to see a little of every sort of farming that ever existed; and some sorts, we will affirm,
                    never had an existence before anywhere else—the purely indigenous farming of the great
                        valley."31
            
            In this productive soil, high returns were readily achieved. By 1850, more corn and wheat were raised
                    here than in any other section of the state. The stable soils supported a great variety of crops.
                    The counties that led the state in wheat production seem also to have been the leading areas in corn
                    production. It would be difficult to point out great belts of specialized agriculture, although
                    there were tendencies in this direction. Corn seemed to be outdistancing wheat in central Indiana,
                    and by 1850, northern Indiana was producing as much wheat as was the central section; however, the
                    general pattern of agriculture had not yet been changed much.
            The bountiful returns of the soil brought the farmer face-to-face with the problem of disposing of a
                    surplus which, unless trade outlets were found, would be wasted. To some editors, the problem of
                    waste was a moral one—the squandering of a hundred bushels of corn was unimportant, but
                    the habit of wasting was a great evil. It was predicted that the time was not far off when these
                    habits would make wastrels of the sons and daughters of the farmer. However, The
                        Indiana Farmer and Gardener declared: "We anticipate a great change in the farming
                    operations of this region on the completion of the rail-road to 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."32
            
            In the drive to dispose of its surplus produce, central Indiana exhibited a somewhat indecisive
                    course of action, quite in line with its other characteristics of diversity. From the first, there
                    seems to have been no one trade channel that offered overwhelming advantages over all the others.
                    The neighbors of Indiana were keenly interested in the problem of selecting the trade route which
                    would become the favored 
                  
                     31
                            The Indiana, Farmer and Gardener, I, 194.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 10.
               
                     one, for trade offered reciprocal advantages at both ends of
                    the avenue. The 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette asked in 1847: "Who is to have the trade of the central regions
                    of Indiana? What city in the West is to receive the large agricultural surplus of the
                        Wabash valley, and the tier of fertile counties lying between it and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and send back in exchange its dry goods … salt?"33
            
            The bad roads of Indiana made trade with the East difficult. The water route to 
                        New Orleans
                     had certain attractions, yet the disadvantages of trade with that gulf port were
                    clearly seen by some interested citizens. Henry W. Ellsworth, the land baron of the 
                        Wabash
                    , attempted in 1838 to portray the advantages of eastern trade, pointing out that this
                    was the proper channel for the surplus of the great upper valley. He observed that, judging from the
                    efforts to reach the eastern markets it must be the preferred one.34 The 
                        Michigan
                     Road was the result of an attempt to seek a satisfactory route to this eastern market.
                    It was surveyed and construction was begun in the direction of the Great Lakes. In the thirties, it
                    was made a part of the "mammoth" bill of the internal improvements program.35
            
            The 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal completed to 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1843 drew produce to the northeast. Yet the extension of the canal to 
                        Terre Haute
                     by 1849 seemingly did not materially affect a reversal of trade to the south, since
                    freight rates were cheaper to 
                        New Orleans
                    .36 The canal did, however, exert its influence on the trade of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , directing it northeastward. The Indiana State Sentinel declared in
                    1843: "It is a fact that we are beginning to send produce west to the 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Boston
                     markets. Large quantities of Hemp and other articles are now being forwarded in wagons
                    to 
                        Lafayette
                    , some 65 miles north west, by our enterprising citizens, to be sent on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal to 
                        Boston
                     and 
                        New York
                     markets."37 Yet later in the same year, the 
                  
                     33
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette, August 13, 1847, quoted in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana State Sentinel, August 21, 1847.
                  
                     34 Henry William Ellsworth, The Valley of the Upper 
                                    Wabash
                                , Indiana, with Hints on Its Agricultural Advantages (
                                New York
                            , 1838), 11-13.
                  
                     35 Geneal Prather, "The Struggle for the 
                                Michigan
                             Road," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX (1943),
                            1-24.
                  
                     36 A. L. Kohlmeier, The Old Northwest as the Keystone of
                                the Arch of the American Federal Union (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1938), 89.
                  
                     37 Wylie J. Daniels, "The Village at the End of the
                            Road," Indiana Historical Society Publications, XIII (1938),
                        16.
               
                    
                    Sentinel editor commented: "By the prices current published in the Beacon (
                        Lawrenceburg
                    ), it would appear that produce bears a higher price there than at any other place in
                    the State. Indeed the fact seems to be generally known; for trains of teams pass here constantly for
                    that point. What with 
                        Lafayette
                     on one side, and Lawrenceburgh on the other, who can wonder at the stagnation of
                    business here at present?"38
            
            The rivalry for the trade of the interior seems to have been encouraged by the prices offered to the
                    farmer. It was estimated that teams could reach 
                        Lafayette
                     in two and one-half days, while to get to the river towns of 
                  Cincinnati, Lawrenceburg
               , and 
                        Madison
                     required a round trip of nine to twelve days.39 Yet the
                    differential in time and distance did not rule out competition between the river and the canal. It
                    was estimated that it cost one-third the value of the staple articles to carry them to the
                        Ohio River, but this factor did not halt trade completely.
            
               
                        Lafayette
                    , in the heart of the rich upper Wabash Valley, offers an
                    interesting example of the varied outlets of the section. Some trade went down the 
                        Wabash
                     from this enterprising village. After the completion of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal to 
                        Toledo
                    , some staples were sent to the Great Lakes trade route. A third outlet—and
                    perhaps the most difficult to estimate in importance—was the wagon trade with 
                        Chicago
                    . One account of early 
                        Chicago
                     describes Hoosier wagons loaded with various kinds of produce which was traded for a
                    few bags of coffee and the balance in salt; "this was the invariable return load of all
                    Hoosiers." The same observer claimed to have seen as many as 160 Hoosier wagons at once on
                    the dry ground east of State Street in 
                        Chicago
                    .40
            
            Wagon trade continued in sizeable proportions in the autumn of each year until 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     were linked by rail in 1853. The farmers would haul wheat to 
                        Chicago
                     and bring back salt and groceries either for their own use or for the merchants of the 
                        Wabash
                    .41
            
            
               
                        38
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  39
                        Ibid., 17.
               
                  40 Charles Cleaves, Early-
                                Chicago
                             Reminiscences (
                            Chicago
                        , 1882), 51-52. The naming: of 
                            Wabash
                         Avenue in 
                            Chicago
                         may have had some significance in view of this trade.
               
                  41 John Ade, Newton County (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1911), 103-104.
            
            
            Whether by canal, flatboat, or wagon, the 
                        Wabash
                     trade routes seemingly presented serious competition to the routes to the southeast.
                    One Whig editor, rejoicing over the completion of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad, shouted: "Hurrah for the rail road … . We expect our
                    business men will yet head the wheat buyers of the 
                        Wabash
                    ."42
            
            In the forties, the direction of trade was not yet stabilized. 
                        Even Indianapolis
                    , within eighty miles of 
                        Madison
                     on the Ohio River, seemed to be seeking out the most profitable
                    outlet, whether it be to the north or to the south. The diversity of the production served to
                    complicate the trade picture, for men sought the most lucrative market that could be found in any
                    direction.
            In broad perspective, the central counties of Indiana presented a picture of a potentially rich
                    section inhabited by a mixture of settlers of varied backgrounds who had rushed on to the fertile
                    plains. By 1850, they were becoming powerful in numbers and influence. Economically, their future
                    appeared bright. It might be said that central Indiana was coming of age.
            Nearly all of the settlers of the northern third of Indiana arrived after 1830—at that
                    time, only a small area had as many as two people per square mile. Although the population more than
                    doubled in the northernmost eighteen counties in the period from 1840 to 1850, only about twelve per
                    cent of the citizens of Indiana lived in this part of the state. In 1840, one-half of the population
                    lived in 
                  La Porte, St.
                        Joseph, Elkhart
               , and 
                        Kosciusko
                     counties, and about one-third of the population of the section was found in these same
                    counties in 1850.43
            
            The departure of the glacier had left a large morainal area with immature and swampy lacustrine
                    plains in northern Indiana. The stream pattern is erratic and in some instances the continental
                    divide is difficult to determine. Much of the land is poorly drained and there are numerous lakes,
                    ponds, and bogs. Yet there were fertile areas in this area. The St. 
                  
                     42 Daniels, "The Village at the End of the Road,"
                            Indiana Historical Society Publications. XIII, 41.
                  
                     43 Visher, "Population Changes in Indiana,
                            1840-1940," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science, LI,
                            183; Harvey L. Carter, "A Decade of Hoosier History, Indiana, 1850-1860"
                            (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 1938), 22; Compendium of the … Sixth
                                Census, 82; Compendium of the Seventh Census, 755-756.
               
                     Joseph Valley and the 
                        Door Prairie
                     were attractive lands, but well-drained areas such as these were scattered.
            Several explanations have been offered to account for the slow development of northern Indiana. New
                    Englanders on their journeys west avoided the area primarily because their routes of travel skirted
                    the borders of the state. Whether they avoided settlement because of the presence of
                    "shiftless southerners" who were reaching up from the Ohio
                    River is debatable.44 It is more likely that they were discouraged by
                    the large amount of wet land in the area. Of almost equal importance was the fact that northern
                    Indiana and the Upper Wabash Valley were blocked from the Northeast by the
                    great Black Swamp of northwestern 
                        Ohio
                    . Added to these deterring physical factors was the almost legendary notoriety of the
                    combined areas as the "chief terror of travelers Westward" with their
                    disease-ridden swamps. Settlers were also discouraged by the fact that speculators had gobbled up
                    huge tracts of land particularly in the prairie counties along the northwestern borders of the
                    state. As for wet lands which required co-operative drainage programs for reclamation, the
                    contention follows that if these speculative holdings had been more democratically owned, and had a
                    more equitable land system been operating, individual owners would have solved the problem of
                    reclamation by common effort.45
            
            In a contemporary view of the situation, The Indiana Farmer and Gardener summed up
                    the attitude of a land-seeking farmer: "We do not suppose that the time has come in Indiana
                    for the general introduction of a system of Draining, although there is not,
                    perhaps, another State where so much first rate land might be redeemed by it. Before many years
                    there will be thousands of acres pierced with drains. But the inducements to it which make it wise
                    in 
                        England
                     and 
                        New England
                     do not yet, generally, exist in Indiana. The expense of draining one acre would buy
                    two. Many farmers have already more arable land than they can till to advantage. Land redeemed from
                    a slough would not pay 
                  
                     44 Lois K. Mathews, The Expansion of 
                                    New England
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1909), 254. This explanation hardly seems valid since New Englanders placed
                            themselves in 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Illinois
                             despite the presence of the competing southerners.
                  
                     45 Richard Lyle Power, "Wet Lands and the Hoosier
                            Stereotype," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, XXII, 37-39; Gates, "Land Policy and Tenancy in the Prairie Counties
                            of Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXV, 1-26.
               
                     for itself in many years."46
                    Although the emphasis here was on wet land in general, it would also apply to northern Indiana in
                    particular.
            The large holdings of nonresidents in this area created a problem of taxation, and bred enmity
                    between the citizens of the state and the speculators. The Logan Chief urged the
                    recovery of these lands for the settler through a system of onerous taxation of unimproved lands. As
                    a result of the present situation, it declared, "The upper 
                        Wabash
                     country and the Northern part of the State is literally a wilderness… . Let
                    the people see to this matter themselves : it can be effected by taxing all lands
                    alike—WILL THEY DO IT."47
            
            Collectively all the above factors account for the small population of the 1840's; yet this
                    was a growing section. As was true concerning the other sections of the state, the sources of
                    population were varied, although more of the early settlers were natives of other parts of the
                    state. In the extreme northern tier of counties there was a sizeable number of New Yorkers. In 
                        La Porte
                     and 
                        Elkhart
                     counties, Pennsylvanians were found in significant proportions. In studying 
                        La Porte County
                    , Layton found that slightly over six per cent of the population had come from 
                        Virginia
                    .48
            
            An agriculture of abundance in this area of Indiana was limited generally to the northern tier of
                    counties. By 1850, these counties were large producers of wheat and hay, with the seven northernmost
                    counties out of the ninety-two in the state producing slightly less than fifteen per cent of all the
                    wheat grown in Indiana for the year.49
            
            Thus here was a section that, although it could not yet match the development of central and southern
                    Indiana, was making tremendous strides. This fact is even more illuminating when one considers the
                    example of 
                        La Porte County
                     which, prior to 1829, was without a single white inhabitant.50
            
            This was a region of extremes. Productive agriculture was localized, there were no broad sweeps of
                    productive 
                  
                     46
                            The Indiana Farmer and Gardener, I, 24.
                  
                     47
                            Logan Chief, quoted in the Indiana State Sentinel, July
                            19, 1845.
                  
                     48 Layton, "Sources of Population in Indiana,
                            1816-1850," 41.
                  
                     49
                            Compendium of the Seventh Census, 791-792.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Jasper
                             Packard, History of 
                                    La Porte County
                                , Indiana (
                                La Porte
                            , 1876), 36.
               
                     land, and the search for outlets to market were local problems.
            The direction of trade in the northern counties of Indiana was almost exclusively directed to the
                    East. The mode of transportation out of the state was either by canal or by direct lake
                    transportation. The one lake port of any consequence in the state was 
                        Michigan City
                    . The canal was inaccessible to northwestern Indiana, but it provided a good outlet for
                    the most northern of the northeastern counties.51
            
            The St. Joseph River furnished another outlet to the lakes. In 1831 the first
                    keelboat was built at 
                        South Bend
                    ; later steamboats were used on the St. Joseph River, and until
                    1852 they supplied 
                        South Bend
                     merchants with a great share of their merchandise. A local writer in 1847 reported that
                    there were four steamboats and numerous other craft hauling produce on the 
                        St. Joseph
                    . The delegation from 
                        South Bend
                     to the famous Rivers and Harbors Convention in 
                        Chicago
                     in the same year represented the interests of this river.52
                    However, there were certain limitations of this avenue to market. The winding course and shallow bed
                    of the river entailed a long and treacherous journey, limiting its possibilities.
            
               
                        Lake
                        Michigan
                     also had its disadvantages as an outlet as far as northern Indiana was concerned. The
                    harbor at 
                        Michigan City
                    , begun in 1833, amid sand dunes and swamps, was a discouraging enterprise. At first, 
                        Michigan City
                     was connected with the outside world by only the lake, for the 
                        Michigan
                     Road had not yet been completed. Until a wharf was constructed, lighters were used to
                    reach the anchored vessels out in the deeper waters of the lake. Three years later there were
                    warehouses, and commission merchants as well as twelve dry goods stores. In the same year,
                    appropriations of twenty thousand dollars from the federal government permitted extensive
                    improvement of the harbor to be 
                  
                     51 Grain was transported to the canal at 
                                Wabash
                            , for example, from the surrounding seven counties north and south. Leola
                            Hockett, "The 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal in 
                                Wabash County
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIV (1928), 302.
                            However, in northern Indiana there was a division of the trading area of such a nature that
                            it did not seemingly extend more than two counties back from the canal before a competitive
                            outlet was able to influence trade. Prices would also influence the direction of trade.
                  
                     52 Otto M. Knoblock, "Early Navigation on the St.
                                Joseph River," Indiana Historical Society Publications, VIII (1925), 187-199.
               
                     made. By 1840, 
                        Michigan City
                     had become a principal grain market for northern Indiana. Wagon loads of wheat were
                    reported to have been brought from areas as far south as 
                        Marion County
                    . Yet its newly found prosperity was hampered by the failure to continue improvements to
                    the harbor between 1844 and 1849.53
            
            Despite the comparative proximity of surplus outlets, trade was not always lucrative. Solon Robinson,
                    the agricultural reformer of 
                        Lake County
                    , declared that: "The average distance for the raisers of grain in this county
                    to haul it to market, being not less than 40 miles, it is found that nothing but wheat will bear the
                    expense of hauling, and that at the best poorly pays the farmer for his labor."54 In 
                        La Porte County
                    , discontent over unsatisfactory profits resulted in the drafting of a constitution by a
                    Farmers and Mechanics Association which intended to build warehouses, and purchase or construct lake
                    vessels. The preamble stated broadly the farmer's plight as he saw it. The document read:
                    "In view of the embarrassed and languishing conditions of the Farming community,
                    notwithstanding the unparallelled exertion, labor, and toil, we are led to inquire—is
                    there no system or plan that can be devised, that will secure to us, exclusively, the rewards of our
                    own labor? We discover that we are, to a certain extent, building up towns and cities, and cover our
                    lakes with sails, by an unnecessary sacrifice of produce; and exhorbitant prices for merchandise, we
                    therefore, in view of these considerations, in order to sustain ourselves, enter into a compact for
                    the purpose, if possible, of saving the enormous expenditures that are daily made, and which are
                    saping the very foundations of all agricultural pursuits, exerting not only a prostrating influence
                    on us, but also on the industrious, hard-working mechanic."55
            
            These farmers who were actually closer to trade outlets than their neighbors in central Indiana,
                    seemed to be more disgusted with their lot. The narrow funnel through which their surplus passed
                    exacted a greater toll than Solon Robinson and the 
                        La Porte
                     farmers thought justified. They were 
                  
                     53 Packard, History of 
                                    La Porte County
                                , Indiana, 83-88, 93.
                  
                     54 Herbert A. Kellar (ed.), Solon Robinson: Pioneer and
                                Agriculturist (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1936), II, 75. These are volumes XXI and XXII of the Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916-).
                  
                     55
                            
                        
                                    La Porte County
                                 Whig, April 15, 1848.
               
                     unable to choose alternate markets as in central Indiana.
                    Further, the dangers of lake commerce raised shipping charges. The merchant and shipper blamed the
                    federal government for the dangers and the added expense of the lake commerce due to the failure to
                    improve lake navigation. But to some farmers, at least, the real culprit was the merchant who was
                    claiming the lion's share of the farmer's labor. Some of these basic antagonisms
                    were later carried into the political arena.
            Northern Indiana was the newest section of the state. Much of it was but a few short years away from
                    the raw frontier. Merchants who had managed Indian trading posts at the south bend of the
                        St. Joseph River had shifted their interests to the white trade of the town
                    of 
                        South Bend
                    , without changing their location.56
            
            Land speculators were still on the scene in the forties. Villages and towns sprang up nearly
                    overnight as the Indians were removed and the land put up for sale.
            Yet it must be remembered that close to all this activity were counties that in 1850 were the least
                    populated in the state. Northern Indiana was passing out of the stage of initial thrust. The filling
                    up process was about to take place.
            The boundary lines of Indiana had been superimposed upon a portion of the western wilderness by
                    politically minded men in order to create for their constituents a more governable portion of that
                    which they desired most—land. The diversities of the carved portion were imperceptible at
                    first, but as men toiled to convert the raw environment more to their own ends, these differences
                    emerged with greater clarity. As the road to maturity was traveled, new obstacles appeared as life
                    became more complex. In the give and take of existence, certain attitudes on the part of the
                    inhabitants were buffeted about and changed, others maintained. Sectionalism in the physical sense
                    revealed itself. Some men had more in common with their neighbors in other states than with their
                    fellow citizens, since physiographic and economic units extended beyond political boundaries. The
                    state of Indiana was in a sense an intermixture of shreds and patches torn from a greater cloth.
            
               
                  56 The evolution of such a business establishment is told by Bert Anson,
                        "L. M. Taylor Store," Indiana Magazine of History, XLV
                        (1949), 249-264.
            
            
            It can be seen that the Great Lakes, the Appalachian Plateau, the Ohio River,
                    and the central till plain as they were represented in Indiana were merely segments of the whole,
                    each of which influenced the mode of action in a comparable degree wherever men encountered these
                    physiographic features of the West. Closely tied to these physical influences were the economic
                    interests shaped by them and created out of them. Finally the cultures developed in and near these
                    same plains, rivers, lakes, and hills bred common attitudes which were implanted in men's
                    thoughts and habits. Yet, despite the conglomerate nature of Indiana, there remained a common cement
                    which served to fuse the dissimilar elements. One of the more important of these elements was the
                    predominance of agriculture carried on by the small independent farmer. The great commercial centers
                    of the Old Northwest were outside the boundaries of the state; thus Indiana was in the forties the
                    backdoor neighbor of the surrounding states, a hinterland from which the entrepots of trade siphoned
                    off the surplus commodities in exchange for consumer goods. It is true that trade channels flowed
                    off in several directions, yet the position of the Indiana farmer did not change greatly in the
                    general pattern of commerce. There was thus a certain back-country flavor to the state to which the
                    Hoosier folk-type, applied promiscuously in the past, became a stereotype of the Indiana
                        resident.57
            
            The trading position of Indiana among its neighbors resulted in a concomitant lack of urbanization
                    and commercialization. In 1840, the largest city in Indiana was 
                        New Albany
                    , with 4,226 people. 
                        Indianapolis
                     had a population of 2,692, 
                        Richmond
                     2,070, and 
                        Crawfordsville
                     1,327. Ten years later the 
                        New Albany
                    -
                        Jeffersonville
                     area contained slightly over ten thousand people. The second largest city was 
                        Madison
                     with 9,007 people, and third was 
                        Indianapolis
                     with a population of 8,091. By 1850, only 4.5 per cent of the population of Indiana
                    lived in cities of 2,500 or more.58
            
            Indiana lacked an appreciable urban population to add variety to its composition, and the state had
                    also failed to 
                  
                     57 Richard Lyle Power, "The Hoosier as an American
                            Folk-Type," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVIII, 107-122. Power
                            has stated: "The Hoosier stereotype might be dismissed as a piece of subjectivism
                            were it not for striking parallels to objective fact."
                  
                     58 Visher, "Population Changes in Indiana,
                            1840-1940," Proceedings of the Indiana. Academy of Science, LI,
                            187-189.
               
                     attract in important numbers certain other strata of population
                    elements. The general absence of northeastern emigrants has been noted above. There were also very
                    few foreign born. In 1850, Germans, the principal group, made up about four per cent of the total
                    population. These immigrants were found for the most part in the older counties bordering the
                        Ohio River and those near 
                        Cincinnati
                    .69
            
            The basic homogeneity of the population of Indiana has been discussed above. Collectively, then,
                    there was a surprising degree of common background in the population of the state. It was possible
                    for middle state, 
                        Ohio
                    , and southern emigrants in the same environment to find a rather broad area of mutual
                    interest. The predominance of small farmers from upland areas has also been shown. Since most of
                    them remained farmers, their mode of life continued to carry with it agrarian ideals. By 1850, many
                    of these men had resided side by side long enough to rub off some of the cultural layers brought
                    with them to Indiana. In the initial encounter, only the superficial characteristics of strangers
                    are inclined to be noticed. Obviously, there was some of the inheritance that remained but a certain
                    accommodating and blending could occur that would round off some of the sharper surface differences.
                    Part of that which remained could seemingly be vestigial, while some could be active and resistant
                    to change. The Indiana landscape even today is dotted with architectural transplantations
                    represented in homes that have outlasted their builders for more than a hundred years. Is it not
                    feasible to suggest that more pliable entities were unable to resist change and were being moulded
                    anew in the forties?
            This then was the broad setting in which the politicians were to act. The relation between political
                    behavior and social and economic forces, as a recent study has pointed out, is not always clear.
                    Political parties are often made up of people of the most diverse interests who for various reasons
                    find satisfaction in a common name.60 Yet, according to another recent analysis,
                    parties are limited by the climate of opinion that sustains their cultures. Politicians and
                    political parties often differ bitterly over current issues but they 
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., 181, 185.
                  
                     60 Roy Franklin Nichols, The Disruption of American
                                Democracy (
                                New York
                            , 1948), ix.
               
                     share a common, framework of ideas which enables them to
                    co-operate after an election.61 An attempt has been made to point out some of
                    the unconformities that existed in Indiana on one hand and the fundamental uniformities on the
                    other. The Hoosier politician's assignment was to find the lowest common denominator.
            
               
                  61 Richard Hofstadter, The American Political Tradition and
                            the Men Who Made It (
                            New York
                        , 1948), ix.
            
         
         
         
            Eugene V. Debs: Conservative Labor Editor
            David A. Shannon∗
            Just eleven years before the great American Railway Union strike of 1894, which established Eugene V.
                    Debs as America's most militant and radical labor leader, Debs had written,
                    "Strikes are the knives with which laborers cut their own throats."1 A few years after the ARU strike Debs was to sign his letters "Yours for the
                    Revolution"; in the early 1880's he signed them, "Yours in Benevolence, Sobriety,
                    and Industry." Indeed, had enemies of the militant Socialist investigated his early trade
                    union background, they could have found in Debs's own writing an abundance of conservative
                    arguments to be used against him.
            When Debs became editor of the Locomotive Firemen's Monthly Magazine,
                    official journal of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen, in July, 1880, there was little to
                    suggest that the twenty-five-year-old editor would be America's most famous radical within
                    a few years. The ambitious, hard-working young editor turned out a magazine that fitted well the
                    Brotherhood's conservative purposes, which were summarized in its motto
                    "Benevolence, Sobriety, and Industry." In its early days the Brotherhood of
                    Locomotive Firemen was more of a fraternal lodge and a mutual insurance company than a trade union.
                    The hazardous duties of locomotive firemen prevented commercial insurance companies from issuing
                    policies to firemen at premiums they could afford. To meet this situation, locomotive firemen
                    established their Brotherhood, which levied a periodic assessment on the members to build a death
                    and disability benefit fund.2 The other parts of the motto, sobriety and
                    industry, were part of the organization's personal uplift program, designed 
                  
                     ∗ David A. Shannon is a visiting assistant professor of
                            history at the Teachers College, 
                                Columbia
                             University, 
                                New York
                            .
                  
                     1
                            Firemen's Magazine (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            1873-), VII (1883), 74. The title of this periodical varied. It is cited throughout this
                            article as the Firemen's Magazine. In 1880 the title was The Locomotive Firemen's Monthly Magazine. This was shortened to
                                The Locomotive Firemen's Magazine in 1881 and to The Firemen's Magazine in 1882. In 1886 the title again became The Locomotive Firemen's Magazine and did not change again until
                            after Debs left the editorship in 1894. When Debs was editor, it was published in 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., IV (1880), 178. This editorial was evidently written by William N.
                            Sayre of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , who was the editor until Debs took over with the August, 1880, issue.
               
                     to assist the members' ambitions to be promoted to
                    engineer or "move to the right-hand side." In the early days of his editorship,
                    Debs took every opportunity to impress his readers with the importance and worthiness of these
                    purposes and to disparage more radical aims.
            When Debs became editor of the Magazine in 1880 he also assumed the duties of Grand
                    Secretary-Treasurer, and it was a proud young officer who announced seventeen months later that the
                    death benefit of the order was increased to a thousand dollars, nearly double the amount of the old
                    benefit. The Brotherhood would ever "extend the hand of charity to the home of …
                    widow[s] and little ones," and any "lukewarm communicants" in the order
                    who could see no personal benefits from aiding the widows and orphans of brother firemen were
                    "soulless individuals" who were not wanted.3 Such members
                    lacking in benevolence were few, but there were many who needed strengthening in their sobriety and
                    industry. And the young Debs, who believed firmly in the doctrine of the self-made man, was eager to
                    further sobriety and industry and thereby start young firemen on their way to success.
            "Rails" of the late nineteenth century had a reputation of being hard-bitten,
                    hard-drinking toughs. Debs and the Brotherhood did their utmost to reform the firemen and make them
                    respectable. "The very irregular life of this calling," Debs wrote,
                    "caused men to fall into bad habits, and in place of spending their time in improving
                    themselves and in the interest of their families, they would, when not on the road, 'take
                    the town in with the boys,' as it is vulgarly termed, and so the profession fell into
                    disrepute." Debs was merciless in his attacks upon drunkenness among the brothers. No
                    locomotive fireman had "the right to allow himself to become intoxicated under any
                    circumstance, or at any time. If he does so, he forfeits his membership in our Order." He
                    urged railroad managers to close their depot saloons to remove temptation from their employees. Debs
                    thought, probably with too much optimism, the temperance campaign yielded results. When O. S.
                    Lyford, superintendent of the C. & E. I., told Debs he had not had to fire any men because
                    of drunkenness for two years, Debs attributed the record to the activities of the 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., VI (1882), 17, 18; IV, 341.
               
                     Brotherhood. And Debs painted rosy pictures of the new
                    nonalcoholic regime: "Instead of drunken rowdies … we now see dutiful sons,
                    loving husbands and kind fathers, who, when they have finished their day's work, go to
                    their homes … to caress their bright-eyed children and to kiss and make glad the
                    companions of their heart."4 But temperance was only part of the
                    program of uplift; hard work, honesty, self-sac00rifice, and "mental improvement"
                    were also necessary to make a self-made man of a fireman.
            After Debs became radical, he exhorted his listeners to be loyal to their class, to work for the
                    elevation of their class. But in the early 1880's, in his adulation of the self-made man,
                    there was the inarticulate basic premise that one should rise from, rather than with, one's
                    class. Debs himself had been moderately successful as a result of following the
                    lift-your-self-by-your-own-bootstraps philosophy. Forced to quit school at the age of fourteen, he
                    had gone to work on the Vandalia Railroad. Four years later he left railroad work to attend a 
                        Terre Haute
                     business college. After completion of his course, he became a billing clerk for Hulman
                    & Cox of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , a large wholesale grocery company. He used his first wages as a clerk to buy an
                    encyclopedia, certainly in the best tradition of self-made men. After helping found a debating
                    society for young men, he went into politics and never lost in election as a Democrat. The voters of 
                        Terre Haute
                     twice elected him city clerk and once as their representative in the legislature.5 Hard work and self-education had worked for Debs, and he urged his brothers in
                    the order to follow a similar course.
            In the first editorial Debs wrote for the Magazine he suggested that Brotherhood
                    locals collect libraries in their meeting rooms for their "mental improvement."
                    Master mechanics, Debs told his readers, would not promote "the lazy, greasy one, who
                    stands around and finds fault…," but the fireman "who 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., IV, 340; VIII (1884), 472, 151-153; V (1881), 73, 361; VI, 365-366;
                            VII, 455-456.
                  
                     5 Ray Ginger, The Bending Cross: A Biography of Eugene
                                Victor Debs (
                        New Brunswick,
                                    New Jersey
                     , 1949), 11, 18, 25,
                            28-31, 41-43; Clipping from Kate Debs Scrapbooks which are in the possession of the writer.
                            The account, probably from a 
                                Terre Haute
                             newspaper, is based on an interview of Frank Roderus of 
                                Terre Haute
                            , who was a friend of Debs when they were youths. The clipping is pasted among
                            the Debs obituaries, indicating that the probable date was 1926. That Debs had this
                            commercial training has not been recognized by his biographers.
               
                     is prompt, respectful and trustworthy, is sure to reap a
                    reward… ." He reviewed the careers of successful railroad officials and pointed
                    out the moral for young firemen: "Let no day go by without doing something that will fit
                    you to accept a position better than the present one, whatever that may be. Strive for excellence in
                    all things. If all known duties are honestly and conscientiously done, the reward will
                    come." Wasting time, drinking, "all those things that are usually called bad
                    habits, do not pay, in a business sense," and should therefore, be
                    avoided. Even after his disastrous experience in the 
                  Chicago, Burlington
               , and 
                        Quincy
                     strike in 1888, the first in a series of events that broke Debs from many of his
                    earlier conservative ideas, he still reminded his readers that never in the history of the world had
                    conditions been so favorable for ambitious young men who "regarded 'time as
                    money' and [who] … husbanded it with miserly care," a view he
                    reaffirmed even early in the panic of 1893.6
            
            Debs could put his emphasis on individual self-help, on personal uplift, rather than on the usual
                    demands of trade union leaders, because he saw no economic conflict between capital and labor. The
                    American Federation of Labor unions, for example, in making their demands for job control and better
                    wages, hours, and working conditions, assumed a conflict between themselves and their employers and
                    assumed a show of labor strength was necessary to wrest concessions. Debs did not come around to
                    this point of view until the late 1880's and then reluctantly. Until then, contrary even to
                    the teachings of Adam Smith, he held the interests of labor and capital to be harmonious.
                    "One of our fundamental doctrines is that labor and capital are brothers."
                    "Steadily we have inculcated the doctrine that labor and capital are friends…
                        ."7 But, of course, even among friendly brothers, differences will
                    sometimes arise. Such differences could and should be settled by reasonable and peaceful means,
                    rather than by strikes or violence, in the manner of brothers rather than in the manner of economic
                    rivals.
            From the founding of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen in 1873 until July, 1887, when the firemen
                    struck the 
                        Brooklyn
                     Elevated Railroad, the organization had never 
                  
                     6
                            Firemen's Magazine, IV, 241-242; VI, 212, 364, 365; XIII (1889),
                            202; XVII (1893), 267-271.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., VIII, 617; VII, 546.
               
                     authorized a strike, and Debs was proud of it. In the violent
                    railroad strikes of 1877 one of the Grand Officers had "usurped" power and
                    authorized some of the eastern locals to strike, but "as an organization the Brotherhood
                    had nothing to do with the origin or development of that strike nor any other… . They
                    have never destroyed one dollar's worth of property, nor struck one blow at a railroad
                    company. On the contrary they have always counseled moderation and in many instances carefully
                    guarded the property of their corporations." Over and over, Debs repeated that strikes were
                    wrong and unnecessary, that they brought only grief to labor, that "no good has ever or can
                    ever come from resorting to violence and bloodshed," and that conciliation and compromise
                    could settle whatever differences might arise between railroaders and their employers.8
            
            Alert railroad officials were quick to see the wisdom of befriending the Brotherhood of Locomotive
                    Firemen and its young editor. Railroads furnished annual passes to the Brotherhood officers, and
                    many railroad managers wrote Debs letters in which they spoke of the organization "in the
                    kindliest terms." William H. Vanderbilt of the 
                        New York
                     Central was "greatly pleased to notice the rapid development of the
                    organization." William Riley McKeen, president of the Vandalia and a 
                        Terre Haute
                     banker, was one of the signers of the bond Debs posted when he began to handle the
                    Brotherhood's funds. When the firemen met in convention, the management of the railroads
                    granted the delegates free transportation, and when the 
                        Chicago
                     delegation made the long journey to 
                        Denver
                     for the convention in 1883, they made the trip in comfort, thanks to the generosity of
                    the Pullman Palace Car Company.9
            
            The young editor of the firemen's journal did not let such kindnesses go unheeded. Railroad
                    officials, from presidents down to master mechanics, received editorial bouquets from Debs. Riley
                    McKeen was the subject of the most filio-pietistic biographical sketches Debs wrote for the Magazine, but other railroad managers did not go wanting. Debs's readers
                    found that the careers of J. W. Lutterall, master mechanic of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Short Line, and Henry C. Lord, 
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., XI (1887), 513; V, 169; IV, 337, 273, 337; VII, 254-255, 455-456,
                            546; VIII, 279, 616-618.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., V, 169; VI, 499, 458; IV, 347-348; VII, 492-493.
               
                     president and superintendent of the 
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
               , and 
                        Lafayette
                    , were worthy of emulation. Debs also opened his columns to Lord, and for six
                    consecutive issues readers of the Magazine were privileged to read the words of a
                    railroad president. Debs could even find kind things to say about Jay Gould. In an obituary of
                    Gould, Debs admitted the robber baron was a stock waterer and a ruthless speculator, but by the
                    standard of ethics of his colleagues, Debs thought, Gould stood rather well. Furthermore, Gould
                    never ordered his employees not to join unions and never hired Pinkertons.10
            
            Debs's view of the relations of management and labor was an eminently conservative one,
                    recognizing no basic conflict between the two and disparaging the strike. Yet there was a Christian
                    demand for justice and a frontier spirit of social equality in Debs's thought that did not
                    sit well with the most autocratic of railroad officials. Debs's desideratum was one of
                    peace and co-operation between labor and capital, but he expected management to treat labor with
                    respect, honor, and social equality. "We want to be friendly with our employers, and serve
                    them faithfully. We want to become intelligent and respectable enough to merit their sympathy and
                    confidence. We want to have it so that if any difference or difficulty exists between us, we can
                    stand before them upon a perfect social equality, and state our grievances like men." A
                    railroad employee should "show proper respect for … superiors" and go
                    to his employer "with an olive branch in his hand," but he should do so as a man.
                    "American working men are not serfs—they will not wear the collar of railway
                    superintendents… . They are not cringing, fawning, lickspittles, who approach railway
                    superintendents on their bellies in the dust." Debs roundly condemned railroad managers who
                    used "spotters" to test the honesty of their conductors because such a practice
                    indicated these managers doubted the integrity of their employees. However, until the strike on the
                            
                  Chicago, Burlington
               , and 
                        Quincy
                    , Debs had faith that only a small "fossilized class of railroad
                    managers" did not share his view of the ideal in labor relations. "When we are
                    fully qualified to receive our rights, they will always be accorded us."11
            
            
               
                  10
                        Ibid., VII, 253-254, 121-122, 124-126, 164-167, 214-218, 256-258, 307-310,
                        351-354; VI, 364; VIII, 339-342; XVII, 103-108.
               
                  11
                        Ibid., IV, 273; VI, 212, 366; IX (1885), 159; VIII, 403-405; VII, 254-265; V,
                        169.
            
            
            With such views of society it was logical for Debs to have much the same attitude toward radicals as
                    conservatives later had about him. Radicals, Debs held, retarded the advancement of labor's
                    interests because the general public mistook their unpopular opinions for the beliefs of the
                    workingmen of the country. "The wild utterances of blatherskites have been the texts upon
                    which the press has commented as voicing the aims of the great body of laboring men…
                    ." These radicals, Debs charged, motivated by selfish interest, continually attempted to
                    create disturbances between labor and capital so that they could ride to political power on the wave
                    of artificially stimulated discontent. Such demagogues should be ignored. They should be ignored,
                    but Debs disagreed with those who thought radicals should be silenced. The anarchists convicted in
                    the Haymarket case in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1886 were as odious to Debs as they were to Judge Joseph E. Gary—Debs
                    called them "cranks" making "insane harangues"—but he defended
                    their right to hold and preach such mistaken doctrines. Socialists did not fare much better with
                    Debs than did the anarchists. As late as just a few months before the great Pullman strike he could
                    denounce the goals of socialists as "castles of moonshine" and charge that
                    socialism would dwarf the individual out of sight and create an absolutist state.12
            
            There was discernible in Debs's early social thought the seeds of ideas that would in time
                    germinate into the most potent anticapitalism the 
                        United States
                     has ever had. For example, he shared with a great many western agrarians the labor-cost
                    theory of value, not to be confused with the Marxian theory of surplus value. He shared the
                    democratic distrust of large standing armies, and he called professional army officers
                    "insufferable snobs" and "gold-lace parasites." He leaned toward
                    silver as against gold, but so had such 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., VIII, 468, 617; XI, 11-13. Debs did not, however, go so far as to
                            advocate free speech to all. When the 
                                New York
                            
                            Herald in 1891 said, "free speech, even when it gives vent to
                            disgusting nonsense, should be tolerated," Debs disagreed. He would have denied
                            free speech to advocates of "free love" and Mormon polygamists.
                            "This Magazine believes in free speech and a free
                            press—but with limitations. It would have no free speech Satans in American Eden
                            homes; no square foot of American soil defiled by the advocates of polygamy; no brothel
                            beasts, advocating free love; no Sodoms, inviting Heaven's wrath in storms of fire.
                            In a word, certain forms of free speech are crimes against humanity and should be suppressed
                            and will be suppressed." Ibid., XV (1891), 306-307. Ibid., XVII, 743; XVIII (1894), 468-470.
               
                     immaculate conservatives as William McKinley and Colonel Dick
                    Thompson. But these theories and attitudes were not central to Debs's thought, and he was
                    not on his way to radicalism until 1888 when the strike on the 
                  Chicago, Burlington
               , and 
                        Quincy
                     jolted him into a slow revision of his views. Until then no one suspected the young
                    editor might in time describe himself as "a flaming revolutionist." On the
                    contrary, a reasonable prophet of the early 1880's would have predicted Debs would continue
                    to watch labor and capital, "the corner stone of our grand structure" and the
                    "twin sisters of civilization," walking "Hand in hand … along
                    the highway of success… ."13
            
            
               
                  13
                        Ibid., VII, 162-163, 349: VIII, 467-469; IX, 611-613, 471-473, 91-95; James
                        Ford Rhodes, The McKinley and Roosevelt Administrations, 1897-1909 (
                            New York
                        , 1923), 13-16; Charles Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson: The Persistent
                            Whig (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1948), 228-229; Ginger, Eugene Victor Debs, 387. For a
                        good discussion of the labor-cost theory of value see 
                            Chester
                         McArthur Destler, American Radicalism, 1865-1901: Essays and
                        Documents (
                     New London, Connecticut
                  , 1946), 25-27.
            
         
         
         
            Garcia and "Land of the West"
            Hugh Hazelrigg∗
            Alacrity of musical composition achieved merely by borrowing nice tunes from the classics, apparently
                    is not an innovation by Tin Pan Alley's songsmiths.
            Manuel del Popolo Vicente Garcia is called the composer of the melody for Stedman Whitwell's
                    "Land of the West," written for Robert Owen's party as they were sailing
                    toward this country in 1825, in Paul Brewster's article "Three Songs From 
                        New Harmony
                    " in the September, 1951, issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History.
            
            The 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette of March 15, 1826, quoting a "
                        New York
                     paper," says "A beautiful air, full of appropriate character and
                    expression, was composed (for Whitwell's ode) by Señor Garcia, with that
                    facility for which he is remarkable."
            Apparently Garcia's facility, in this instance, was merely an aptitude for quick
                    appropriation of an air "full of appropriate character and expression," for the
                    tune is none other than that of the national hymn of 
                        Austria
                    , composed by Franz Joseph Haydn in 1797.
            Garcia gets the credit also from Robert Dale Owen, who in Threading My Way devotes
                    much space to Garcia and his opera company, who were aboard the packet "
                        New York
                    " with the Owenites.
            Says Owen, referring to the song, "The music, graceful and spirited, was by Garcia. It was
                    afterwards published in 
                        New York
                    , under the title 'Ebor Nova', and had quite a run, for the Garcias
                    won for themselves an enthusiastic reception."
            It would be interesting to know if the famous Garcia actually pretended to compose the tune for the
                    Owenites, or, perhaps because of language difficulties, they misunderstood when he merely undertook
                    to "provide" a melody. The above quotation from Owen would seem to indicate that
                    Garcia took no steps to disclaim composition when the song became a success in 
                        New York
                    . It is, of course, possible that Garcia never heard of it again after the shipboard
                    performance.
            Perhaps Garcia got a bit of malicious pleasure from hoodwinking the Englishmen, with whom relations
                    were slightly strained. Owen tells of Garcia's violence toward his 
                  
                     ∗ Hugh Hazelrigg is science writer for the Indiana
                            University News Bureau, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
               
                     own children in musical matters, and how he was threatened with
                    the brig by the ship's captain after a public outburst in which Garcia knocked down his
                    son.
            At any rate, Garcia's reputation for facility in composition seems to be accepted as bona
                    fide by two of the better known music historians, Sir George Grove and Francois Fetis. Grove says
                    that "words and music seem to have been alike easy to Garcia," and Fetis credits
                    him with no less than 97 operas—71 in Spanish, 19 in Italian, and 7 in French!
            Haydn was commissioned to compose the tune (to words by Lorenz Leopold Hoschka) by Count von Saurau,
                    Imperial High Chancellor, because he considered Haydn alone capable of writing anything
                    approximating in merit the English "God Save the King." In part, the enterprise
                    was intended as an antidote to the influence of the French revolution.
            Under the title "God Preserve the Emperor Francis," the song was the Austrian
                    national hymn from 1797 to the time of the setting up of the republic in 1918. After that, it was
                    officially retained, with new words by Ottokar Kern-stock.
            Haydn did some borrowing himself, but definitely openly, by taking a Croatian folk melody and
                    altering and extending it to suit the words. He made a number of versions, still in existence,
                    improving the tune gradually until he arrived at the present smooth form.
            The tune is a favorite of chamber music addicts, as Haydn used it as a theme for a fine set of
                    variations in his string quartet, Opus 76, No. 3, known as the "Kaiser" or
                    "Emperor" quartet. Haydn loved to play the melody on the piano, especially when
                    the French were bombarding his home city, Vienna, in the year of his death, 1809. It is said to have
                    been the last music he performed.
            The melody is to be found in many hymn books, usually under the title "
                        Austria
                    ," and is also the music of "Deutsch-land Über
                    Alles."
            As printed in the Indiana Magazine of History, the tune has been altered slightly
                    in the first half-measure of both the verse and the refrain of "Land of the West,"
                    apparently in order that it would fit the syllables. Somewhere, however, this alteration has gone
                    slightly awry. The second eighth-note in these measures has been added. Therefore, an eighth-note
                    value should have been eliminated from the dotted quarter-notes in these measures by dropping the
                    dots.
         
         
         
            Roots of the Principle of Separation of Powers in the Indiana Constitution
            Darwin N. Kelley∗
            In both the 1816 and 1851 constitutions of Indiana the framework of the government is the principle
                    of separation of powers. In the constitution of 1816 Article II states the principle: "The
                    powers of the government of Indiana shall be divided into three distinct departments, and each of
                    them be confined to a separate body of magistracy, to wit: Those which are legislative, to one;
                    those which are executive, to another; and those which are judiciary, to another. And no person, or
                    collection of persons, being of one of those departments, shall exercise any power properly attached
                    to either of the others, except in the instances herein expressly permitted." In the
                    constitution of 1851 the same principle is found in Article III, Section 1: "The powers of
                    the government are divided into three separate departments; the legislative, the executive including
                    the administrative, and the judicial; and no person charged with official duties under one of these
                    departments shall exercise any of the functions of another, except as in this constitution expressly
                    provided."
            The other states, as well as the framers of the federal constitution of 1787, used the principle of
                    separation of powers, this being one of the most important principles followed by the early
                    constitution makers. Practical applications of the principle, and the operation under the stress of
                    necessity, are deserving of separate considerations. Only the theoretical roots will be considered
                    in this study.
            Although there are many names associated with the evolution of this theory, the two Europeans,
                    Montesquieu and Locke, deserve paramount respect.1 The purpose of the theory is
                    to get government with liberty. Of course there are other methods of safeguarding liberty.2 But in view of 
                  
                     ∗ Darwin N. Kelley is a graduate student in history at
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Other men commonly referred to either because of their views on
                            checks and balances or separation of powers are: Aristotle (commonly taken to be the
                            original statement of the doctrine), Polybius, Machiavelli, John Calvin, James Harrington,
                            M. Turgot, William Blackstone, and Oliver Cromwell.
                  
                     2 Joseph Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (3 vols., 
                                Boston
                             1833), II, 7: "
                                Milton
                             was an open advocate for concentrating all powers, legislative and executive,
                            in one body; and his
               
                     the seventeenth century English experience, as well as their
                    own experience before and after 1774, the Americans were unreceptive.3
            
            John Locke (1632-1704) was well known as a philosopher. Although the ideas of the Carolina
                    constitutions, he wrote in 1669, were rejected by those in America, his Two Treatises
                        of Civil Government published in 16904 not only supplied the Whig party
                    in 
                        England
                     with their political philosophy for the next century but also was clearly the source of
                    the principles set forth by Thomas Jefferson in the 
                  opinions, as well as those of some other men of a philosophical cast, are sufficiently
                            wild and extravagent to put upon our guard against too much reliance on mere
                            authority."
                  
                     3 John Adams, "A Defence of the Constitutions of Government
                            of the 
                                United States
                             of America," in Charles Francis Adams (ed.), The Works of
                                John Adams (10 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1850-1856), IV (1851), 464-466. John Adams wrote at length to refute
                            Turgot's advocacy of giving all powers to the legislature. Referring to 
                                Milton
                            , Adams, stated that "A man may be a greater poet than Homer, and one
                            of the most learned men in the world; he may spend his life in defence of liberty, and be at
                            the same time one of the most irreproachable moral characters; and yet, when called upon to
                            frame a constitution of government, he may demonstrate to the world that he has reflected
                            very little on the subject. There is a great hazard in saying all this of John Milton; but
                            truth and the rights of mankind demand it." Adams then quoted at length from 
                                Milton
                            's Ready and Easy Way to Establish a Free
                            Commonwealth, upon which he commented: "Can one read, without shuddering, this
                            wild reverie of the divine, immortal 
                                Milton
                            ? If no better systems of government had been proposed it would have been no
                            wonder that the people of 
                                England
                             recalled the royal family, with all their errors, follies, and crime about
                            them. Had Milton's scheme been adopted, 
                                England
                             would have been a scene of revolutions, carnage and horror, from that time to
                            this, or its liberties would have been at this hour the liberties of 
                                Poland
                            , or the island would have been a province of 
                                France
                            . What! a single assembly to govern 
                                England
                            ? an assembly of senators for life too? What! did 
                                Milton
                            's idea of liberty and free government extend no further than
                            exchanging one house of lords for another, and making it supreme and perpetual. What!
                            Cromwell, Ireton, Lambert, Ludlow, Waller, and five hundred others of all sects and parties,
                            one quarter of them mad with enthusiasm, another with ambition, a third with avarice, and a
                            fourth of them honest men, a perpetual council to govern such a country! It would have been
                            an oligarchy of decemvirs on the first day of its sitting; it would have instantly been torn
                            with all the agitations of Venice, between the aristocracy and oligarchy, in the assembly
                            itself. If, by ballot and rotations and a thousand other contrivances, it could have been
                            combined together, it would have stripped the people of 
                                England
                             of every shadow of liberty, and grown in the next generation a lazy, haughty,
                            ostentatious group of palatines; but if they had fallen into divisions, they would have
                            deluged the nation in blood, till one despot would have ruled the whole. John Milton was as
                            honest a man as his nation ever bred, and as great a friend of liberty; but his greatness
                            most certainly did not consist in the knowledge of the nature of man and of government, if
                            we are to judge from this performance, or from 'The Present Means and
                                Brief Delineation of a Free Commonwealth,' in his letter to General
                            Monk."
                  
                     4 John Locke, Two Treatises of Government, edited by
                            Thomas I. Cook (
                                New York
                            , 1947), ix.
               
                     second paragraph of the Declaration of Independence. Moreover,
                    Locke influenced the political thinking through the time of the drafting of the Constitution in
                    1787, and long afterwards.
            Obviously influenced by the pressing problems of 
                        England
                    , Locke was on new ground so far as theory was concerned when he set forth his doctrine
                    of separation of powers.5 The rapid succession of royal absolutism,
                    parliamentary absolutism, Cromwellian dictatorship, and the return of royal absolutism in 
                        England
                     in the seventeenth century before the Glorious Revolution of 1688, impressed upon the
                    English mind the need of harmony. Principles to achieve this were to John Locke the eternal
                        truth.6
            
            The three powers, according to Locke, are legislative, executive, and federative. The extent of the
                    legislative power makes it supreme: "The great end of men's entering into society
                    being the enjoyment of their properties in peace and safety, and the great instrument and means of
                    that being the laws established in that society, the first and fundamental positive law of all
                    commonwealths is the establishing of the legislative power; as the first and fundamental natural law
                    which is to govern even the legislative itself is the preservation of the society and, as far as
                    will consist with the public good, of every person in it. This legislative is not only the supreme
                    power of the commonwealth, but sacred and unalterable in the hands where the community have once
                    placed it…."7
            
            "Their power, in the utmost bounds of it, is limited to the public good of the society. It
                    is a power that hath no other end but preservation, and therefore can never have a right to destroy,
                    enslave, or designedly to impoverish the subjects."8
            
            The power of the judges, although not called the judicial power, limits the legislative power:
                    "The legislative or supreme authority cannot assume to itself a power by extemporary,
                    arbitrary decrees, but is bound to dispense justice and to decide the rights of the subject by
                    promulgated, 
                  
                     5 William Archibald Dunning, A History of Political
                                Theories from Luther to Montesquieu (
                                New York
                            , 1923), 356.
                  
                     6 Locke, Two Treatises of Government, ix, passim.
                  
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 188.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 189.
               
                     standing laws, and known authorized judges. For the law of
                    nature being unwritten, and so nowhere to be found but in the minds of men, they who through passion
                    or interest shall miscite or misapply it, cannot so easily be convinced of their mistakes where
                    there is no established judge; and so it serves not, as it ought, to determine the rights and fence
                    the properties of those who live under it, especially where every one is judge, interpreter, and
                    executioner of it, too, and that in his own case; and he that has right on his side, having
                    ordinarily but his own single strength, hath not force enough to defend himself from injuries or to
                    punish delinquents."9
            
            The executive power, among other things, guarantees the right use of legislative power: "The
                    legislative power is that which has a right to direct how the force of the commonwealth shall be
                    employed for preserving the community and members of it. But because those laws which are constantly
                    to be executed, and whose force is always to continue, may be made in a little time, therefore there
                    is no need that the legislative should be always in being, not having always business to do. And
                    because it may be too great a temptation to human frailty, apt to grasp at power, for the same
                    persons who have the power of making laws to have also in their hands the power to execute them,
                    whereby they may exempt themselves from obedience to the laws they make, and suit the law, both in
                    its making and execution, to their own private advantage, and therefore come to have a distinct
                    interest from the rest of the community contrary to the end of society and government; therefore, in
                    well ordered commonwealths, where the good of the whole is so considered as it ought, the
                    legislative power is put into the hands of divers persons who, duly assembled, have by themselves,
                    or jointly with others, a power to make laws; which when they have done, being separated again, they
                    are themselves subject to the laws they have made, which is a new and near tie upon them to take
                    care that they make them for the public good."10
            
            "But because the laws that are at once and in a short time made have a constant and lasting
                    force and need a perpetual executive or an attendance thereunto; therefore, it is necessary there
                    should be a power always in being 
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 190.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 194-195.
               
                     which should see to the execution of the laws that are made and
                    remain in force. And thus the legislative and executive power come often to be
                        separated."11
            
            In thought, while thinking of 
                        England
                    , Locke had traveled to the Americans since he formulated his curious plans for Carolina
                    with the proprietors the center of power. However, the Americans were to merge the federative power
                    (war and alliances) with the executive, and add a clearcut judicial power.
            Montesquieu's (1689-1755) virile passion for liberty made his name a battle cry for the
                    Americans. The alignment of the War of Independence, with 
                        England
                     the enemy and 
                        France
                     the main ally, made more appropriate the quoting of a Frenchman. He became the chief
                    American authority on the way to preserve liberty.12 Indeed, even more than
                    that, he was their very oracle of political philosophy.13 His The
                        Spirit of Laws (1748), published almost forty years before the Constitutional Convention of
                    1787, won for him this position because of the author's love of liberty.14
            
            As has been noted, Locke had separation of powers; but it was the terminology of
                    Montesquieu—legislative, executive, and judicial powers—that was established
                    in the vocabulary of the Americans.15
            
            
               
                  11
                        Ibid., 195. References to some aspect of separation of powers are scattered
                        throughout the Second Treatise.
               
               
                  12 Andrew C. McLaughlin, A Constitutional History of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1936), 116.
               
                  13 E. H. Scott (ed.), The Federalist and Other Constitutional
                            Papers(
                            New York
                        , 1894), 266-273. "No general principle of politics laid such hold on the
                        constitutionmakers and statesmen of America as the dogma that the separation of these three
                        functions is essential to freedom." James Bryce, The American
                        Commonwealth (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1914), I, 29.
               
                  14 Hugh Evander Willis, Constitutional Law of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1936), 132 wrote: "John Locke must be given much credit for the
                        doctrine, yet, if Montesquieu had never written, probably there would never have been a doctrine
                        of separation of powers in the 
                            United States
                         Constitution and the various state constitutions in the 
                            United States
                        ." It is interesting, if unhistorical, to speculate what would have been
                        used to put into language colonial experience had there been no convenient attractive statement
                        of separation of powers. Gilbert Chinard, "Polybius and the American
                        Constitution," in Journal of the History of Ideas (
                            New York
                        , 1940-), I, 44 stated: "Montesquieu… did nothing but generalize
                        and modernize the lessons of ancient history."
               
                  15 Carl Joachim Friedrich, "Separation of Powers," in
                            Encyclopaedia of the Social Sciences (15 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1930-1935), XIII (1934), 664: "When Montesquieu came to rewrite the
                        doctrine, the Act of Settlement of 1700 (para. 3) had already undertaken to guarantee to English
                        judges tenure during good behavior. Since Montesquieu himself was, as a result
            
            
            Evidently Montesquieu worked with both 
                        France
                     and 
                        England
                     in mind. Taking what he thought to be the constitution of 
                        England
                     as his model, he proclaimed its merits due to the division of legislative, executive,
                    and judicial functions; and to the system of checks and balances which preserved the system.16 But one must keep in mind Montesquieu's interest in the practical
                    politics of 
                        France
                    , even when he did not mention his own country." At any rate, men supposed that
                    the theory had functioned in 
                        England
                    , even if it were not in fact the secret of English liberty when Montesquieu penned the
                    classical statement found in The Spirit of Laws, Book XI, Chapter 6.
                    Unquestionably this chapter contains the statement of the theory that the men of the Constitutional
                    Convention had in mind.
            Montesquieu's definition of liberty makes it practical. "In governments, that is,
                    in societies directed by laws, liberty can consist only in the power of doing what we ought 
                  of the contemporary situation in 
                                France
                            , primarily interested in the problem of securing an independent status for
                            judges, it was natural for him to rename Locke's executive power judicial power,
                            inasmuch as the executive's function as described by Locke had been to execute the
                            laws. This transformation was accompanied by another, whereby Locke's federative
                            power emerged as the executive power with Montesquieu. By elaborating the importance of
                            maintaining internal as well as external peace and by thus assimulating the police functions
                            to those of defense and foreign policy, Montesquieu constructed the modern executive power
                            which included also the prerogative that English lawyers had always carefully kept apart for
                            special purposes. In this wise there arose a picture of the ideal balanced state,
                            guaranteeing liberty, which fascinated the eighteenth century with its passion for dynamic
                            symmetry and constructive speculations. It was of the greatest moment that these
                            constructions happened to fit the constitutional experience of most of the American
                            colonies, where a governor, a distinct colonial legislature and a fairly independent
                            judiciary had come to constitute the essential organs of government and where after the
                            Declaration of Independence a brief experiment with legislative supremacy leading to
                            majority tyranny had made the people ripe for a practical application of the celebrated
                            theme."
                  
                     16 "Charles Louis de Secondat Montesquieu," in Encyclopaedia Britannica XV (1946), 760-761: "Professor
                            Saintsbury has said that 'the real importance of the Esprit des
                            lois, however, is not that of a formal treatise on law, or even on policy. It is that
                            of an assemblage of the most fertile, original and inspiriting views on legal and political
                            subjects, put in language of singular suggestiveness and vigour, illustrated by examples
                            which are always apt and luminous, permeated by the spirit of temperate and tolerant desire
                            for human improvement and happiness, and almost unique in its entire freedom from
                            doctrinarism, from visionary enthusiasm, from egotism, and from an undue spirit of
                            system."
                  
                     17 Charles A. Beard, American Government and
                            Politics (
                                New York
                            , 1919), 152: "In point of fact, however, the doctrine, as far as
                            Montesquieu was concerned, was a notion which he acquired during a conflict between the
                            judiciary and king in 
                                France
                             in which he participated, and afterwards read into his study of the
                            institutions of 
                                England
                            ."
               
                     to will, and in not being constrained to do what we ought not
                    to will." Moreover, "We must have continually present to our minds the difference
                    between independence and liberty. Liberty is a right of doing whatever the laws permit, and if a
                    citizen could do what they forbid he would be no longer possessed of liberty, because all his
                    fellow-citizens would have the same power."18 Then too, liberty and
                    safety are one. "The political liberty of the subject is a tranquillity of mind arising
                    from the opinion each person has of his safety. In order to have this liberty, it is requisite the
                    government be so constituted as one man needs not be afraid of another."19 And the way to achieve this liberty is by separation of powers. "When the
                    legislative and executive powers are united in the same person, or in the same body of magistrates,
                    there can be no liberty; because apprehensions may arise, lest the same monarch or senate should
                    enact tyrannical laws, to execute them in a tyrannical manner. Again, there is no liberty, if the
                    judiciary power be not separated from the legislative and executive. Were it joined with the
                    legislative, the life and liberty of the subject would be exposed to arbitrary control; for the
                    judge would be then the legislator. Were it joined to the executive power, the judge might behave
                    with violence and oppression."20 With expert skill the subject was not
                    exhausted but rather made the starting place for a plan. "I should be glad to inquire into
                    the distribution of the three powers, in all the moderate governments we are acquainted with, in
                    order to calculate the degree of liberty which each may enjoy. But we must not always exhaust a
                    subject, so as to leave no work at all for the reader. My business is not to make people read, but
                    to make them think."21
            
            A comparison of Montesquieu's plan for carrying out separation of powers with the
                    distributive clauses with which this study began in the Indiana constitutions of 1816 and 1851 shows
                    that they agreed on general theory. But in Indiana the principle was used to put in operation what
                    was learned by experience in the colonies, the early state governments 
                  
                     18 Baron de Montesquieu, The Spirit of the Laws,
                            edited by Franz Neumann and translated by Thomas Nugent (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1949), 1,150.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 151.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 151-152.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 182.
               
                     and the federal government after 1787.22
                    For Indiana the most immediate factor was the examples of 
                        Ohio
                    , Ken 
                  
                            
                        22 For further material as to the originality of Montesquieu and his
                                being read by the colonial publicists see Max Radin, "The Doctrine of the
                                Separation of Powers in Seventeenth Century Controversies," in University of 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     Law Review and American Law Register (
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1852-), LXXXVI (1937-1938), 842-843. Also Paul Merrill Spurlin, Montesquieu in America, 1760-1801 (University, 
                                    Louisiana
                                , 1940). It may be thought by some that other theorists should be included,
                                especially Blackstone. That the influence of other authorities than Locke and
                                Montesquieu was great is not questioned. Yet on the point of preserving liberty it does
                                not seem that they had a strong appeal. Black-stone may be used as an example.
                                "Throughout the Revolution the Black-stonian doctrine of 'legislative
                                omnipotence' was in the ascendant." Edward S. Corwin, "The
                                Progress of Constitutional Theory Between the Declaration of Independence and the
                                Meeting of the 
                                    Philadelphia
                                 Convention," in the American Historical Review (
                                    New York
                                , 1895-), XXX (1924-1925), 517.
                            Sir William Blackstone (1723-1780) had published his first volume of Commentaries in 1765. His work was widely read in America. However, for the
                                preservation of liberty the colonists could well go directly to Montesquieu. Not only
                                does Blackstone use Montesquieu as an authority, but also has such statements as these:
                                "In all tyrannical governments, the supreme magistracy, or the right of both
                                    making and of enforcing the laws, is vested in
                                one and the same man, or one and the same body of men; and wherever these two powers are
                                united together, there can be no public liberty." William Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of 
                                        England
                                    
                         (2 vols., 
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1856), I, 105. And as it is stated in an edition that placed the thought
                                in more recent language: "But, where the legislative and executive authorities
                                are in distinct hands, the former will take care not to entrust the latter with such
                                large power as may tend to the subversion of its own independence and of the liberty of
                                the subject." Bernard C. Gavit (ed.), Blackstone's
                                    Commentaries on the Law (
                                    Washington
                                , 1941), 79. "In 
                                    England
                                , the supreme power is divided into two branches, the one legislative, to
                                wit, parliament, consisting of the king, lords and commons; the other executive,
                                composed of the king alone." Ibid.
                     
                            A recent evaluation of the present influence of Montesquieu is found in the introduction
                                by Franz Neumann to The Spirit of the Laws. In this introduction it is
                                stated that "The effect of Montesquieu's Spirit of the
                                    Laws on modern constitutionalism has been and still is deep and is, perhaps,
                                still growing. His influence was either a direct one (as in the 
                                    United States
                                ) or came to Europe via the 
                                    United States
                                 (as in 
                                    France
                                ), or was transmitted through his interpretation of the English constitution
                                (as in 
                                    Germany
                                )." lix. However, this introduction closed with this opinion:
                                "modern political science must emancipate itself from the deadweight of the
                                separation of powers doctrine which, much against Montesquieu's conception, has
                                been transformed into a dogma. Montesquieu demanded the separation of powers merely
                                because he believed that it alone could enable a counter-power to check power, so that a
                                maximum of liberty could be assured. It is not the constitutional form that stands in
                                the center of his theory, but its social substructure. No one was less inclined than
                                Montesquieu to make a fetish of the constitution." lxiv.
                            "While the independent judiciary can be considered the irreducible minimum of
                                the doctrine of separate [sic] of powers, the separation of
                                administrative and legislative functions not only does not guarantee freedom, but
                                hampers the utilization of the state's power for desired social lends. The
                                power of the state is unified while a division of labor may and always will lead to a
                                distinction between various functions of the state, based on expedience and not on
                                dogma. Liberty is not threatened by
                        
               
                     tucky, 
                        Tennessee
                    , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .23 The application of the principle of separation of powers and the
                    practical working of the principle is a study for another time.
            
               
                        legislative activity of the administration but by such a structure of society that makes the
                            rise of contending political forces impossible or difficult. A pluralistic social structure
                            and a flexible multi-party system are far more important to liberty than the monopolication
                            of legislation by the legislature and the reduction of the administrative power into a
                            law-enforcing agency. The threat to liberty, inherent in the ascendance of administration,
                            cannot be curbed by curtailing administrative activity but by subjecting it to a
                            parliamentary control and assuring popular participation in administration." lxiv.
                        "Montesquieu had changed his conception after a study of English political
                            institutions. He would equally have changed it after a study of mass democracy in
                            action." lxiv.
                        The present controversy about separation of powers is not within the scope of this study;
                            only to show present interest and questioning in the above quotation given. But it is
                            fitting to point out that, since the use made of Montesquieu in the Constitution of the 
                                United States
                             and the state constitutions is largely a use of his wording to express the
                            American experience up to that time, to change the principle of separation of powers would
                            be to change the basis of experience on which the government is established. Whether or not
                            this change should be made, rather than the meaning of Montesquieu, is the heart of the
                            problem today.
                    
               
                  23 John D. Barnhart, "The Southern Influence in the Formation of 
                            Ohio
                        ," in The Journal of Southern History (
                            Baton Rouge
                        , 1935-), III (1937), 28.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana History Conference
            The thirty-third annual meeting of the Conference will be held on December 7 and 8, 1951, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A varied program has been arranged.
            Friday afternoon, December 7, there will be a meeting of the Indiana War History Commission for
                    members only. A Folklore session, and a business meeting of the Whitewater Canal Association of
                    Indiana have also been scheduled at the same time.
            Thomas P. Martin of Indiana University has arranged a session on economic and business history for
                    Friday evening.
            The usual college history teachers breakfast will be held on Saturday morning, December 8, at 8:15 at
                    the 
                        Warren
                     Hotel. Holman Hamilton will give a sketch of Claude Bowers.
            At ten o'clock on Saturday morning there will be two sessions. For the genealogy group Roy
                    M. Robbins of 
                        Butler
                     University will read a paper on "Immigration Routes to Indiana."
            The Indiana History Teachers Association also meeting at that hour will hear a paper on the
                    "Four Presidents with Hoosier Influence—William Henry Harrison, Benjamin
                    Harrison, Abraham Lincoln and Zachary Taylor," by Holman Hamilton. This will be followed by
                    a panel discussion on the revision of the requirements for social studies teachers.
            At the Indiana Historical Society annual luncheon R. Carlyle Buley, Pulitzer prize-winner, will speak
                    on "History and Historians of the Middle West."
            Paul A. Wallace, author of Conrad Weiser and editor of 
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                         Magazine, will speak on the Moravian Records at the archaeology session
                    Saturday afternoon.
            On Saturday evening the annual dinner of the Society of Indiana Pioneers will serve as the closing
                    event of the 1951 Indiana History Conference with Tom Wallace, editor emeritus of the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Times, as the speaker.
         
         
         
            Documents
            Early Immigrants Sought Aid From 
                        England
                    
            
            Contributed by Charles A. Morris∗
            As early as 1818, Englishmen began to settle in Scott Township, 
                        Vanderburgh County
                    , Indiana. Among these immigrants was John Ingle, a native of Huntingdonshire. On April
                    26, 1819, he laid out Saundersville, but by 1830 this little village had practically disappeared
                    except for the post office.1 Fourteen years later, however, there were still
                    Englishmen in the vicinity of the town who sought aid from 
                        England
                     for a church in their adopted country. Two letters were written in their behalf in 1844
                    by Bishop Jackson Kemper and Reverend William Vaux.
            Jackson Kemper was born at 
                  Pleasant Valley, Dutchess County, New
                    York
               . After graduation from 
                        Columbia
                     College in 1809, he began the study of theology. The West appealed to him and in 1834
                    he made a journey to the Indian mission at 
                  Green
                        Bay, Wisconsin
               . In the
                    following year he was elected the first missionary bishop of the Protestant Episcopal church with
                    jurisdiction over 
                        Missouri
                     and Indiana. He came to 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, in December, 1835, to preach, and a few Episcopalians who were there met the
                    following January at the store of Goodsell and Lyon to discuss the possibility of building a church.
                    An organization was effected and in 1839 
                        St. Paul
                    's Episcopal Church was constructed at the corner of First and Chestnut streets
                    and consecrated by Bishop Kemper in January, 1840.2 Four years later he wrote a
                    letter to 
                        England
                     for assistance in the amount of one hundred pounds sterling for Trinity parish located
                    near 
                        Evansville
                     in Scott Township at the intersection of Seven Mile Road and the 
                        Princeton
                     and 
                        Evansville
                     State Road. The old cemetery still remains, but the church has long since disappeared.
            
               
                  ∗ Charles A. Morris is president of the Elberfeld State Bank,
                        Elberfeld, Indiana. The letters here reproduced were among other documentary material in his
                        possession and were brought to the attention of Professor Albert L. Kohlmeier of Indiana
                        University.
               
                  1 Brant & Fuller, History of 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , Indiana (n.p., 1889), 578-583.
               
                  2
                        Ibid., 285; Katharine Jeanne Gallagher, "Jackson Kemper,"
                            Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1943), X, 321-322.
            
            
            Reverend William Vaux who served this parish was born and educated in 
                        England
                     and had been admitted to holy orders by Bishop Kemper. Upon the resignation of Reverend
                    N. A. Okeson about 1846, the Reverend Vaux also took charge of 
                        St. Paul
                    's parish in 
                        Evansville
                     for about a year officiating every other Sunday. Just when the Reverend Vaux left
                    Trinity parish for 
                        Minnesota
                     or when he became a chaplain in the army at Fort Laramie is not known.3
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Diocess of Indiana
                           
                                    27th Feb 1844
                                
                        A little body of Englishmen, the greater part of whom are from 
                                        Cambridge
                                     Shire, residing in a woody district of the state of Indiana. Poor but
                                    attached to the church of their forfathers they are anxious to erect a plain
                                    building in which they can assemble to set forth the most worthy praise of their
                                    heavenly father, to hear his most holy word and to ask those things which are
                                    requisite and nessicary as well for the body as the soul. The desire of their hearts
                                    can be accomplished they think for one hundred pounds sterling. In the full belief
                                    that a small church will be a great blessing to those people and that whatever is
                                    collected by friends at home will be expended in the most judicious manner I hereby
                                    cordialy commend them and their cause to the kindness and attention of christian
                                    bretheren.
                        The missionary who officiates among them, the Revd Wm Vaux was born and educated in 
                                        England
                                    , I admited him to holy orders a few years since, and am happy to
                                    testify to his self denial, duties, and faithfulness
                        
                                    Jackson Kemper
                                    Missionary Bishop, & Bishop in
                                    Charge of the Diocess of Indiana
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Saundersville
                                    Vanderburgh
                                  Co la
                           
                                    March 25th 1844
                                
                        To the Revd the Clergy & Faculty, and Gentlemen of the University and
                                    Colleges of 
                                        Cambridge
                                    
                        
                        Revd Brethren and Friends
                        
                           
                              3 Joseph P. Elliott, A History of 
                                                Evansville
                                             and 
                                                Vanderburgh County
                                            , Indiana (
                                            Evansville
                                        , 1897), 254.
                        
                        
                        Encouragd by the uniform success of many others who have reap'd so liberaly
                                    of the bounty of English Christians, and claiming as well the natural as the
                                    sympathetic ties of holy brotherhood, we humbly venture to plead our necessity, and
                                    hope to "gather some of the crumbs that fall from our masters tables";
                                    praying that the missionary spirit which is being so largely poured out from our
                                    native home, and the bosom of our own mother church may extend one of its heavenward
                                    beams to the far distant sheep of Christs fold.
                        Led hither as we trust by a proper motive to seek for our families a home, we still
                                    feel a void;—but it is a want which has been frequently supplied to
                                    foreigners.—and we earnestly emplore it now for Englands own Children.
                                    There is a school of disciples numbering 15 communicants,—a little
                                    scatterd flock,—with a sheperd sent to us by your daughter church of
                                    America, and we call home to our mother to help us to a fold. In our necessity we
                                    have made bold to lay our cause before the christian bretheren in 
                                        Cambridge
                                    ;—and would respectfully sugest the propriety of a
                                    subscription list being open'd in your various colleges &c. We
                                    would wage this course, as well in respect to the readiness with which our hearts
                                    desire could be accomplishd as from the fact that some among us have been formerly
                                    engaged in an humble capacity as servants of your household, our most aged member
                                    had once in the days of her youth assisted in robing the late Wm Pitt. Forbearing to
                                    press our need to an unseemly extent we commit our cause to the great head of the
                                    church, and fervently pray his blessing in the extension of his kindness.
                                    "But this wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them and the
                                    desert shall rejoice and blossom as the rose and of the increase of his govornment
                                    and peace, there shall be no end."
                        In behalf of the members, and congregation of "Trinity Parish"
                        
                                    I am, Revd Bretheren & Gentlemen
                                    Your servant in Christ
                                    William Vaux
                                    Missionary of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the 
                                            United States
                                         of America
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            A New Historical Survey Proposed
            Thomas P. Martin∗
            Perhaps the times are propitious in Indiana for a new historical survey, a survey of economic and
                    business history materials. Initial inquiries among businessmen have brought encouraging responses.
                    It may be that we are already in a movement like that which has become a cropper in 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            
               The 
                            Wisconsin
                         Magazine of History five years ago began a news feature,
                    "Centennials," of the "100th birthday" celebrations of
                    villagers, city folks, "century farms," churches, business concerns, etc. The
                    centennial observance in 1936 of the creation of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Territory had apparently stimulated local observances and a movement for a mammoth
                    celebration in 1948 of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's admission to statehood. The State Centennial with its displays of 
                        Wisconsin
                    -made manufactures in turn "quickened interest in the State's history
                    and brought its industrial role into sharp focus." Businessmen asked the State Historical
                    Society to help them prepare their histories. This the Society speedily prepared to do by getting on
                    mailing lists of important firms, collecting company printed materials, and inaugurating a Business
                    Records Survey; first, of manufactures. David Clark Everest, "a history-conscious paper
                    manufacturer," offered a prize of $1,000 each year for ten years for the best
                    manuscript on 
                        Wisconsin
                     economic history.
            The first results of the Business Records Survey of Manufactures have been announced. Forty-six per
                    cent of four thousand manufactures filled out an inquiry form; and of these over 225 wrote that they
                    would be willing to open their records at any time to a qualified researcher. These 225 presumably
                    had their records under control and readily accessible or wanted the advice and help of historians.
                    Many sent company brochures, pamphlets, and photographs—ephemerae which for the most part
                    perish with the passing of a generation. The more substantial materials revealed and in part
                    received virtually reorient the work of the Society. A geographically arranged file on selected
                    (20,000 out of 65,000) firms representing many types of business now "gives an industrial
                    picture of each region of the State and contains information about records pertinent to their
                    business history."1
            
            A hint of what is going on here in Indiana may be seen in the March, 1951, issue of the Indiana Alumni Magazine (p. 4): "WHAT IS A MANUSCRIPT." Specific
                    illustrations are followed with a concluding admonition—"Before you burn that
                    box of letters or toss out that file of business records—write I.U.!" Materials
                    are beginning to arrive.
            
               
                  ∗ Thomas P. Martin is secretary of the 
                            Bloomington
                         Committee on Economic and Business History.
               
                  1 Robert Polk Thompson, "The Business Records Survey in 
                            Wisconsin
                        ," American Archivist, XIV (July, 1951), 249-255. See
                        also "Accessions, Manuscripts, …," in recent issues of 
                     
                                Wisconsin
                             Magazine of History.
               
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               General Charles Lee: Traitor or Patriot? By John Richard Alden. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1951, pp. xiii, 369. Index, bibliographical note, maps,
                    illustrations, frontispiece portrait of Charles Lee. $4.75.)
            This biography of General Charles Lee is a successful effort to remove the spots with which posterity
                    has smeared his reputation and to present a correct estimate of his character and achievements. This
                    has been done in a very acceptable manner. The necessary facts have been assembled and related in a
                    clear straightforward way. Controversial questions are handled with skill, and the evidence is given
                    a judicial appraisal.
            At the outbreak of the Revolution, Lee had had a long career in the British army, during which he had
                    attained the rank of lieutenant-colonel, but was now inactive on half pay. Near the beginning of the
                    war he resigned from the British service and became a major general in the American army. Although
                    his new rank was a marked promotion over that held by him in the British army, there can be no
                    reasonable doubt as to the purity of his motives in taking this important step. With
                    liberal—almost radical—political views, he had all along been violent in his
                    attacks on what he considered the despotic policy of the king and his ministry. He had also strongly
                    opposed the Stamp Act and the other measures that led to the revolt of the colonies. He came to
                    America in the fall of 1773 and soon became active in the publication of pamphlets and newspaper
                    articles in support of the revolutionary propaganda.
            Owing to his wide experience in military affairs, Lee was regarded by the patriot leaders, both
                    military and civilian, as a most valuable addition to the army. This high estimate of his military
                    ability was confirmed by useful service and successful achievements in the American service. His
                    greatest success was the repulse of the British under Clinton at 
                        Charleston
                     (June 28, 1776). It is true that the chief merit for this victory belongs to Colonel
                    Moultrie and his men for their successful defense of Fort Sullivan; but a large share of the credit
                    properly went to Lee, who was in chief command.
            
            When he returned from the South adorned with the laurels of victory, he was rated by both military
                    and civilian authorities as the ablest of 
                        Washington
                    's lieutenants. This might have been the final verdict of history but for two
                    unfortunate events in his career. These untoward occurrences were his capture by the British and his
                    retreat at Monmouth Courthouse.
            Lee was captured by the British in December, 1776, and was held by Howe until April, 1778, when he
                    was exchanged for General Prescott. While a prisoner he drew up and presented to General Howe a plan
                    purporting to show how the latter could quickly win the war. That Lee had made such an offer to the
                    enemy was not known (except to a few) until more than seventy years after his death, when the
                    documents which revealed this proposal were made public. On the basis of these papers the charge of
                    treason has been brought against Lee by some later historians.
            This action on the part of Lee poses a difficult problem for his biographer. The latter is unable to
                    say whether Lee's purpose was to lead Howe astray by an unwise suggestion or to end the war
                    by a speedy British victory. The author considers it not improbable that he felt that the American
                    cause was lost and that a prompt ending of the war would be the wisest outcome for both
                    belligerents. Lee contended that he was trying to aid the Americans by inducing Howe to adopt a
                    strategy that would weaken his forces. The British general's movements were influenced
                    little, if at all, by the (apparently unsound) advice of his captive.
            The most serious blow to Lee's reputation as a military leader was the severe criticism
                    which was leveled against his behavior at the battle of Monmouth Courthouse. In this battle the
                    American army, with Lee in command of the advance contingent, came in contact with the strong
                    British forces under Sir Henry Clinton (June 28, 1778). Noting the strength of the enemy, Lee
                    withdrew to a more favorable position. In this withdrawal there was some confusion, for which
                    apparently Lee was not responsible. 
                        Washington
                     joined Lee with his force while the retreat was in progress. Feeling that Lee should
                    have attacked instead of retreated and noting the confusion, he gave Lee a severe reprimand in the
                    presence of other officers. 
                        Washington
                     did not use profanity, as tradition relates, but he did lose his temper and acted
                    hastily and unjustly toward his subordinate.
            
            Lee was cut to the quick by this wound to his pride and asked for a court martial, feeling sure of
                    vindication. In this expectation he was sorely disappointed for the verdict of the court was that he
                    had made an unnecessary retreat and had been guilty of disobedience and disrespect to 
                        Washington
                    . The penalty imposed was suspension from the army for a period of one year.
            The author regards the verdict of the court as grossly unfair. In his opinion, Lee had in this battle
                    exhibited courage, coolness, and self-control. He had also acted on sound principles and any
                    mistakes that he made were minor and natural. The success of 
                        Washington
                    's movements after he took command was due largely to the favorable position in
                    which Lee had placed his forces. The disgraced general had therefore performed a most important
                    service to the 
                        United States
                    . "It is quite likely that his retrograde movements at Monmouth prevented
                    Clinton from delivering a smashing counter attack."
            One naturally wonders why such an unjust verdict was rendered. For this miscarriage of justice Lee
                    himself was partly to blame. In his correspondence with 
                        Washington
                     after Monmouth he made statements that the latter resented. In this way he created an
                    issue between himself and the commander-in-chief. A decision favorable to Lee would have meant a
                    loss of prestige for 
                        Washington
                    . Since both the witnesses and the judges in the trial were officers whose future
                    advancement would be controlled by the commander-in-chief, it is not improbable that they were
                    influenced by considerations that should have no place in a judicial decision. Young Alexander
                    Hamilton seemed especially biased in his testimony as a witness.
            In this biography Lee appears as an interesting, but not an admirable character. He had scholarly
                    tastes, knew several languages, and was widely read in the classics. He was noted for his strength
                    of will and utter fearlessness. As an offset to these good qualities, he was afflicted with undue
                    vanity, a soaring ambition, and a badness of temper which led him into numerous disputes. There also
                    ran through his personality a streak of eccentricity which at times assumed the appearance of
                    near-insanity.
            
               Stetson University O. P. Chitwood
         
         
         
            
               Liberty and Property. By R. V. Coleman. (
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribner's Sons, 1951, pp. xiii, 606. Maps, illustrations,
                    bibliography, and index. $5.00.)
            A new book by the editor of the Dictionary of American Biography commands
                    attention.
            This is the second volume in what promises to be a general history of the American
                    nation—the first volume entitled The First Frontier was published in
                    1948. The dust cover carries the subtitle "The Story of the Fabulous Century in which the 
                        United States
                     was born: 1664-1765." This subtitle would be appropriate on the title page. It
                    more accurately describes the content of the volume than does the major title.
            The book is well written and retains the interest of the reader. It has grip. Apparently it was
                    intended for the general reading public. The style is descriptive and narrative and seldom
                    expository. Chapters do not open with a key paragraph but with some incident intended to catch the
                    attention of the reader, much like the style of many popular short stories.
            Even the first chapter, entitled "Birth of an Empire" opens with a lurid incident
                    of hurrying slaves overland from New Amsterdam to New Amstel in northern 
                        Delaware
                    , men chained together, women and children following, moving at a "brisk
                    trot" on a warm August morning after traveling on foot all night and covering some twenty
                    miles since the evening before. Any one who has seen well seasoned soldiers marched twenty miles in
                    one night has extreme difficulty in believing that slaves could have been moving at a
                    "brisk trot" the next morning. Examination of the cited reference shows no mention
                    of children, the rate of march or the use of chains. It merely states when they started. The rest of
                    the book is much sounder than this fanciful introductory paragraph.
            The work is divided into thirty-one chapters with short colorful titles. Chapters vary greatly in
                    length. In some cases titles give little clue to the contents of the chapter. Of the 536 pages of
                    text, 473 deal with the period before 1750. One chapter of twenty-three pages is devoted to the
                    preliminary contest for the 
                        Ohio
                     country and another of ten pages to a detailed description of the Braddock disaster.
                    Only fourteen pages are used to discuss the growing causes of 
                    friction after 1763. Thus the great bulk of the volume deals with colonial development from 1660 to
                    1740.
            There are twenty-eight full page, black and white maps, especially made for this work. In the main
                    they are very good. Those on pages 63, 123, and 143 seem to need alignment or compass direction.
                    There are sixty-two illustrations, of which more than half are portraits of contemporary characters.
                    Most of the others deal with colonial homes and their furnishings. Each chapter heading has a
                    decoration adapted, so we are told on page 464, from the cartouche on the Fry and Jefferson map of 
                        Virginia
                    . Paper and press work are excellent.
            The point of view is strictly provincial with the central emphasis upon the constantly shifting
                    frontier, including the English, French, and Spanish. It is a detailed story of the occupation of
                    the area east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . More space is given to LaSalle than to the issue of taxation. The West and not 
                        New England
                     receives major treatment. Problems of imperial organization and relations with the
                    mother country receive very minor attention.
            The chief contribution to historical information is in the field of synthesis. It gathers together
                    the results of a century of historical scholarship, including general and special studies of the
                    most recent date, and weaves them into a continuous narrative. As one reads the book he becomes more
                    and more impressed with the attention that has been given to individuals and their connection with
                    events over a long period of time. No other author has done this so well. Maximum use has been made
                    of the material in the Dictionary of American Biography. Of the more than one
                    thousand citations, 116 include references to this outstanding biographical work.
            The coming of foreign peoples—Scotch, Scotch-Irish, Swiss and Germans—is
                    treated in much detail with definite information as to their leaders, how they came and where they
                    settled. The Moravians, the Labadists, the Methodists, the Great Awakening and other religious
                    movements are fully treated.
            The use of references departs from common research practice. There are a total of 1,083 separate
                    footnote citations, regularly at the close of a paragraph. These on their face resemble the usual
                    citations. All references are consolidated  by chapters in the
                    back of the book, making a total of fifty pages. These are labeled "Bibliography."
                    Literally they are short bibliographies for each paragraph and not authorities for statements in the
                    text. This makes it very difficult to verify any specific statement. It is hoped that this practice
                    will not spread to other historical writing.
            As in most books of this scope, there are minor features that can be questioned. The chief adverse
                    criticism is likely to be the omission of any adequate presentation of material that would help
                    place the colonies as a part of the British Empire, their relation to the sugar islands and the
                    fisheries, the part they played in eliminating forever 
                        France
                     as a colonial power in America and the inclusion in the account of so many trivial
                    contemporary local episodes. Readers can go to other works for the former. For a long time they will
                    turn to this volume for the latter. We need such a contribution as Coleman has given us.
            
               
                  
                            Colorado
                         State Teachers College O. M. Dickerson
         
         
            
               Tyrant from 
                            Illinois
                        : Uncle Joe Cannon's Experiment with Personal Power. By Blair Bolles. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton and Company, Inc., 1951, pp. 248. $4.50.)
            This is by no means a complete biography and its author makes no such claim for it. Here instead is a
                    portrayal of Joseph Gurney Cannon after he reached his three score and ten years. This in itself
                    marks a unique achievement, for about how many Americans could a book be written, that opened with
                    the subject's seventieth birthday? Bolles has not attempted a detailed narrative about
                    Cannon's life which began after the latter reached the Psalmist allotted life span but he
                    has written a monograph on only one phase of a complex personality. The author frequently refers to
                    the earlier life of the 
                        Illinois
                     Tyrant when he feels the necessity for acquainting the reader with material that
                    explains later action.
            Generally speaking, Cannonism in 1906 meant standpatism. To use Cannon's classic statement,
                    "America is a hell uv a success. Why change it?" He threw the dictatorial powers
                    of the Speakership of the National House, which position he held from 1903 to 1911, into the fight
                    for maintaining  the status quo. He successfully
                    "balked Roosevelt's attempt to marry social consciousness to political
                    science."
            In 1908, Taft won the Republican nomination for president but Cannon won the party. Discontent grew
                    rapidly in the fertile soil of the Speaker's repeated opposition to a growing demand for
                    national reforms. Stripped of his autocratic authority in March, 1910, Cannon tendered his
                    resignation only to have it rejected. Though Cannon served until the Democrats organized the House
                    in 1911 he was never happy after he was deprived of his personalized power.
            As a politician, "Uncle Joe," as Cannon was called affectionately, was as fair as
                    the "exigencies of American politics" would permit. As a raconteur of racy tales,
                    he had a varied jovial audience. As one of the best poker players in public life, Cannon was
                    respected by official 
                        Washington
                    . As a prolific swearer or a vulgar mouthed old man, he had no equal in American
                    politics in his generation, but it is as the architect of standpatism that Cannon will be remembered
                    historically.
            Bolles declares that Joe Cannon was the creator of the welfare state. The author bases his conclusion
                    on Cannon's determined refusal to countenance any changes, whatsoever. This obstinacy
                    forced all reformers into the cavalcade of Wilson's New Freedom, Roosevelt's New
                    Deal, and Truman's Welfare State. Obviously, such a thesis will not be accepted
                    unanimously.
            This book is well written, has an ample bibliography and an accurate index. Unfortunately, several
                    mistakes have remained. For example, E. H. Harrison, correctly stated in the index, is given as E.
                    R. Harrison twice in the book (pp. 14-15); David G. Phillips' popular book in
                        1903—The Treason of the Senate is listed Treason in
                        the Senate (p. 16); a Biblical reference "Garden of Gethsemane" is
                    "Garden of Olives" (p. 34); John Sharp Williams did not attend
                    the Democratic National Convention at 
                        Denver
                    , 1908, as stated (p. 155) nor did he write the plank in the platform attributed to him
                    (p. 156). Elected as a delegate-at-large to this convention, Williams got drunk on the way to 
                        Denver
                     and later was found by a policeman in 
                        San Francisco
                     sitting on a street hugging a lamp post. These are minor errors, however, in an
                    excellently written book. Certainly, a full-length scholarly biography of Uncle Joe Cannon is long
                    overdue.
            
               
                  
                            Colorado
                         State Teachers College George C. Osborn
         
         
         
            
               Guide to Business History Materials for the Study of American Business History and
                        Suggestions for Their Use. By Henrietta M. Larson. Index by Elsie Hight Bishop. 
                  
                            Harvard
                         Studies in Business History, XII. Edited by N. S. B. Gras.
                            (
                  Cambridge, Massachusetts
               : 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1948; second printing, 1950, pp. xxvi, 1181. $12.00.)
            The second printing of Miss Larson's Guide, an expensive book, in the
                    second year of publication emphasizes the importance of business history and increases our concern
                    about the place which Indiana materials hold in it.
            It seems that the development of American business history as specially defined by Miss Larson (pp.
                    3-6) — administration and operation in the past—was overdue a quarter century
                    ago. About 1925, Wallace B. Donham, dean of the 
                        Harvard
                     Graduate School of Business Administration, 1919-1942, undertook to promote it; and
                    Professor N. S. B. Gras of 
                        Minnesota
                    , a former student of Wallace's predecessor, Edwin F. Gay, accepted the new
                    Straus Professorship of Business History at 
                        Harvard
                    . Leading businessmen and institutions of learning have given generous support. Since
                    American business history covers Small Business as well as Big Business, we may expect it to become
                    a popular, practical part of education and training. For older, conventional economic, social,
                    political, and diplomatic history, this development may be termed, with no pun intended, a
                    "grass roots" movement.
            Patriotic Indianans will encounter the index with mixed emotions, if they do not first get acquainted
                    with the book by reading the introductory material by Professor Gras and Miss Larson. For the index
                    was designed for a guide, not for a bibliography, and should be worked several ways. Of course it is
                    not perfect. Under "Indiana" one sees subheads —automotive industry,
                    banking, capitalists "industrial" and "petty," and limestone.
                    "Drug industry" yields only two references, one being R. C. Clark's Eli Lilly and Company, 1876-1946 described in the text as "Better than
                    the average run of anniversary volumes. Emphasizes executives and product and gives some indication
                    of policy and personnel and sales management." There are intriguing and suggestive subheads
                    under "Drug trade retail" and "Drug trade, wholesale." Under
                    "Furniture," "Hardware," and "Steamships"  there are no references distinctly Indianan. Under
                    "Machinery," which is too general, there is no reference, say, to Oliver Chilled
                    Plow Works; under "Oliver, James," there are two references, with specific comment
                    on one. Entries, with comments, of A. R. Erskine's History of the Studebaker
                        Corporation (1924), Logan Esarey's "State Banking in Indiana,
                    1814-1873" (1912), and J. A. Batchelor's Economic History of the
                        Indiana Oolitic Limestone Industry (1944) are included. Though the reader knows that
                    references in the Guide are a "selection" peculiar to the Gras
                    School, he is perhaps dissatisfied with the showing of his own Hoosier Indiana: Not enough; should
                    be more.
            There are illuminating references under the headings "Business records,"
                    collection, control and preservation; "Business research"; and "Manuscript
                    collections." One might now add, "Records management," on which a
                    considerable literature has sprung up since 1948. Though there has been severe damage done by
                    indiscriminate destruction and loss of our business manuscripts and records, many still can be
                    found, as one may see in current Indiana University announcements regarding the papers and records
                    of The Howard Shipyards, 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , and of The 
                        Cannelton
                     (Indiana) Cotton Mill, now The Stonewall Mill of Bemis Bro. Bag Company. In each case
                    these collections span a century.
            
               Indiana University Thomas P. Martin
         
         
            
               Max Ehrmann: A Poet's Life. By Bertha K. Ehrmann. (
                        Boston
                    : Bruce Humphries, Inc., 1951, pp. 119. $2.50.)
            It would be my guess that Max Ehrmann's name is not widely recognized by most readers
                    outside the boundaries of Indiana, perhaps not even by many readers outside the confines of his
                    native community, 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Ehrmann's work included poetry, philosophical prose, and closet drama, all of
                    varying length and pretension. He was a minor poet and philosopher of ability who made a deep
                    impression upon a few very respectable critics through his sincerity, his thoughtfulness, and his
                    abiding will to express to his fellowmen the product of that thoughtfulness. When he died in 1945,
                    Ehrmann had completed a half-century of post-collegiate writing activity. The majority of this
                    writing, particularly  the drama, had been done in the earlier
                    part of that period, although there has been a flurry of republication since 1945. With the hope
                    only of orienting the reader and without any derogatory implications whatsoever, Ehrmann may be
                    looked upon as a kind of intelligent and intellectual Edgar Guest, or perhaps better, a lesser
                    Emerson with the same analytical mind and concern for mankind but without any very great sustained
                    originality, at least in his poetry.
            The most interesting aspect of Ehrmann's career—and the one portrayed most
                    successfully by Mrs. Ehrmann—is his life-long allegiance to 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Born in 
                        Terre Haute
                     of German immigrant parentage, Ehrmann was educated at DePauw and 
                        Harvard
                    . He returned to his home town, also that of Debs and Dreiser, both well-known to him,
                    and began the practice of law. However, he was fired with the urge to conquer the literary and
                    intellectual world. Throughout Mrs. Ehrmann's study of her husband, there is apparent the
                    gradual, though never complete, defeat of that urge and its slow supplanting by a growing
                    satisfaction with being the revered intellectual of a small city, a prophet with credit. For the
                    sake of the unity of Mrs. Ehrmann's tribute to her husband, it is unfortunate that this is
                    not the prevailing theme of her study, for it is quite evident that in considerable degree the key
                    to the interpretation of Ehrmann's life is the interplay of these two forces, national
                    recognition versus local recognition.
            Throughout, there is portrayed an admirable personality of some significance and peculiar literary
                    pretensions, known by and knowing important personages of the first half of the century, and, above
                    all, remarkably typical of that strange American phenomenon the local sage. Such a character
                    deserves a good, full biography. This book of Mrs. Ehrmann will have to be taken into consideration
                    by any further biographer of Ehrmann.
            As a parting remark, almost a footnote—and a very hesitant one since here the reviewer is
                    out of his field— would not a study of the local sage as a type be a worthwhile
                    undertaking? Perhaps even two studies, one historical and one literary. Certainly, the 
                        United States
                     has had many such figures, some of great national impact. And the local sage has been
                    popular in fiction and in folklore. In any such historical  or
                    literary study, Max Ehrmann would have to be dealt with at length.
            
               The University of Ankara William Hugh Jansen
         
         
            
               Old Indiana and the New World. Address at the Opening of the Library of Congress
                        Exhibition Commemorating the Territory of Indiana, November 30, 1950 By Elmer Davis. (
                        Washington
                    : Library of Congress, 1951, pp. 14. $2.25.)
            Hoosiers appreciate the exhibition arranged by the Library of Congress in commemoration of the
                    establishment of Indiana Territory in 1800 and they are also proud of the record of their
                    fellow-Hoosier, Elmer Davis. The address here printed, which contrasts the life of the
                        Ohio River counties with the rest of the state, is stimulating and
                    interesting. It is concerned, however, with a much later period than that of the Territory of
                    Indiana and is largely composed of the author's memories of his youth and the changes that
                    have come to Indiana with industrialization. His interpretation of Edward Eggleston as a portrayer
                    of upstate Indiana will be questioned by many readers. The brevity of the address hardly permits one
                    to ascribe significance to it, however interesting it may have been to those who listened to it.
            There is one aspect of the pamphlet that cannot be passed without sharp criticism. Historical
                    literature at seventeen cents per page is unreasonable. There is nothing about the address to
                    justify such extravagance. It is out of harmony with the spirit of Indiana. The Indiana Territory
                    Sesqui-centennial Commission produced a celebration of the same event without an appropriation. The
                    Library of Congress might have published the address without extravagance and used the savings to
                    publish important documents.
         
         
            
               Documents and Readings in the History of Europe Since 1918. Revised and
                    Enlarged. Edited by Walter Consuelo Langsam with the assistance of James Michael Egan. (
                        New York
                    : J. B. Lippincott Company, 1951, pp. 1190. Index. $6.50.)
            
            At first thought it may seem that a volume which "aims at providing … the exact
                    texts of some of the most important documents and illustrative reading materials relevant to
                    … the history of Europe since 1918" is a far cry from Indiana history. A
                    moment's contemplation of the way in which the lives of Hoosiers have been intimately and
                    drastically affected by the course of events in Europe since 1918, however, will serve to correct
                    such a thought. Whether we like it or not, Indiana history has become enmeshed with world history,
                    and the innumerable treaties, pacts, constitutions, laws, court decisions, manifestoes,
                    proclamations, and minutes of conferences included in this collection will certainly contribute to a
                    fuller understanding of world history. A reading of the minutes of the Tehran, Yalta, and Potsdam
                    conferences, for instance, would be educational.
            Those who edit or write books on contemporary history which have in their titles
                    "since" some date inevitably face the harassing task of keeping their volumes
                    somewhere near up-to-date. Significant events have a way of continuing to occur even after a history
                    book is published. The first edition of the volume under review appeared in 1939. In this edition
                    327 pages have been added to the original material which, so far as the reviewer has discovered, has
                    not been altered. Essentially, therefore, the earlier volume has been enlarged rather than revised.
                    The new material consists almost entirely of official documents issued during the years 1939-1948,
                    the great bulk of them falling within the period of the Second World War and its immediate
                    aftermath. The book provides a convenient way for students of contemporary history to secure a
                    reading of many documents which are not readily accessible in the form in which they originally
                    appeared, documents from which much of the history of the period must be written.
            But one who confines his reading to official documents only may learn much that is true and still not
                    get the real "feel" of the period. Such documents tend to be cold and somewhat
                    abstract. Ultimatums, declarations of war, military reports, and treaties all are needed for the
                    writing of the history of the Second World War, for instance, but one might wish that in addition
                    excerpts from Ernie Pyle's Brave Men, Konstantine Simonov's Days and Nights, Curt Riess's Underground Europe, and
                    other similar sources had  been included. Such excerpts would
                    give the reader a much deeper appreciation of the desperate fighting on the beaches of Normandy, the
                    heroic Russian defense of Stalingrad, and the valiant deeds of the members of the resistance
                    movements in the various Nazi-conquered countries than any number of official documents could do.
                    But the volume under review is designed to be primarily a collection of such documents, and in this
                    somewhat restricted though important field the editors have done an excellent job.
            
               Indiana University F. Lee Benns
         
         
            
               A National Program for the Publication of the Papers of American Leaders: A
                        Preliminary Report to the President of the 
                            United States
                        . By the National Historical Publications Commission. (
                        Washington
                    : National Historical Publications Commission, General Services Administration, 1951,
                    pp. x, 47.)
            This preliminary report has been submitted in answer to a request from President Truman that the
                    Commission send him a statement on "what can be done—and should be
                    done—to make available to our people the public and private writings of men whose
                    contributions to our history are now inadequately represented by published works." The
                    Commission bases its report on the results of consultations with scholars in many fields of American
                    history. From their recommendations a list of 66 persons of national stature, at or near the top in
                    their respective fields, has been compiled and presented here as a tentative list of those persons,
                    the publication of whose papers would be of particular value. In the selection of names a broad
                    interpretation of the word "history" has been adopted. As a result, along with the
                    names of those who have been important in political history, will be found captains of industry and
                    labor, inventors, scientists, educators, religious leaders, editors, writers, and architects. Names
                    of many persons of national stature have been omitted. For some of these papers are not known to
                    exist in sufficient quantities to justify publication. For others the papers have already been
                    adequately published or are now in process of publication. For each person listed years of birth and
                    death, occupation, a brief summary of his or her  career,
                    information on the location of the main bodies of papers, and a statement on the extent to which
                    papers have or have not been systematically published, are given.
            The Commission believes that the work of editing and publishing of papers should be carried out
                    principally by private agencies, such as universities and historical societies. It sees its own role
                    as that of serving as a central body to assist in planning, promoting, and giving direction to the
                    program, and that of the federal government as one of assistance, perhaps by sharing printing costs.
            In addition to the publication of papers of individuals two other projects to which the Commission is
                    applying itself are of considerable interest. One is the establishment in cooperation with other
                    interested organizations of a central register to serve as a union list of manuscript collections in
                    depositories or private hands in the 
                        United States
                    . The other is a survey of documentary publications in the 
                        United States
                     at the national level for the purpose of determining major gaps in the published
                    documentation of the Government's activities in order to recommend a program for filling
                    the gaps.
            This report is presented as a basis for further discussion, and comments and suggestions are
                    requested.
            
               Indiana University Doris M. Reed
         
         
            
               Lists of Documents Relating to Special Agents of the Department of State
                    1789-1906. Compiled by Natalia Summers. Special Lists No. 7. (
                        Washington
                    : The National Archives, 1951, pp. xi, 229.)
            This list provides a usable guide to the correspondence relating to special agents of the U.S. and
                    their missions, 1789-1906, which is scattered through various series of State Department records.
                    The arrangement is alphabetical by names of agents followed by the year of appointment of each, a
                    brief description of the mission, a listing of the correspondence to, from, and about each agent,
                    and a reference to the location of each letter in the State Department series. Certain specified
                    classes of agents are omitted. Included among these are ceremonial agents of the U.S. at such events
                    as coronations, weddings and funerals; commercial and consular 
                    agents, performing duties similar to those of consuls; agents for boundary and claims commissions;
                    diplomatic representatives for special negotiations, whose appointments were confirmed by the
                    Senate; and representatives of the U.S. at international congresses, conferences, and exhibitions.
                    The closing date, 1906, marks the time at which the filing system of the State Department was
                    changed from a series to a subject arrangement.
            Unless otherwise noted all material listed is now in the National Archives. Reference is made in the
                    Introduction, however, to collections other than the records of the State Department, in which
                    correspondence relating to missions of special agents may be found.
            An appendix arranges the special agents by the geographical areas in which they served or with which
                    their missions were concerned, and there is an alphabetical subject index.
            
               Indiana University Doris M. Reed
         
         
            
               Population Schedules, 1800-1870. Volume Index to Counties and Major Cities.
                    Special Lists No. 8. (
                        Washington
                    : The National Archives, 1951, pp. v, 217.)
            This index provides a listing of the population schedules of the decennial censuses of the 
                        United States
                     1800-1870, which are available in the National Archives. Arrangement is alphabetically
                    by states or territories, each of these being further subdivided by counties and a few large cities
                    also in alphabetical order. Schedules for the 1790 census are not listed since almost all the
                    information in them has been published and indexed in Heads of Families at the First
                        Census of the 
                            United States
                         Taken in the Year 1790 (
                        Washington
                    , 1908)
            
               Indiana University Doris M. Reed
         
         
            
               Records of the 
                            United States
                         War Ballot Commission. Compiled by Robert W. Krauskopf. Preliminary
                    Inventories No. 24. (
                        Washington
                    : The National Archives, 1951, pp. v, 4.)
            
            
               Records of the Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion. Compiled by Homer L.
                    Calkin. Preliminary Inventories. No. 25. (
                        Washington
                    : The National Archives, 1951, pp. vi, 156.)
            
               Records of the Bureau of Aeronautics. Compiled by William F. Shonkwiler.
                    Preliminary Inventories No. 26. (
                        Washington
                    : The National Archives, 1951, pp. v, 9.)
            
               Records of the Selective Service System, 1940-47. Compiled by Richard G. Wook.
                    Preliminary Inventories No. 27. (
                        Washington
                    : The National Archives, 1951, pp. v, 53.)
            
               Records of the Retraining and Reemployment Administration. Compiled by Thayer M.
                    Boardman. Preliminary Inventories No. 28. (
                        Washington
                    : The National Archives, 1951, pp. v, 17.)
            
               Records of the Foreign Economic Administration. Compiled by H. Stephen Helton.
                    Preliminary Inventories No. 29. (
                        Washington
                    : The National Archives, 1951, pp. xiv, 180.)
            
               Records of the War Shipping Administration. Compiled by Allen M. Ross.
                    Preliminary Inventories No. 30. (
                        Washington
                    : The National Archives, 1951, pp. v, 35.)
            The preliminary inventories series of the National Archives is designed as a first step in providing
                    the finding aids needed to facilitate the use of the records of the federal government preserved in
                    that repository. Each inventory contains a brief statement of the history and functions of the
                    agency with which it deals, and a description of its records, series by series.
            Of the inventories considered here the first, no. 24, concerns itself with the 
                        United States
                     War Ballot Commission, which was established April 1, 1944 to facilitate absentee
                    voting by members of the army, navy, and merchant marine, and abolished April 19, 1946.
            No. 25 describes all the records of permanent value of the Office of War Mobilization and
                    Reconversion, with the exception of a few in the custody of other agencies. From May, 1943, until
                    June 1, 1947, this agency served as the highest government authority, except for the President, in
                    regard to policy planning for industrial and civilian mobilization and reconversion activities. The
                    records concern themselves primarily with top-level policy and program planning. A wide number of
                    specific fields are involved including food, agriculture, 
                    employment, economic stabilization, fiscal policy, public works, foreign economic operations,
                    housing, the utilization of industrial facilities, manpower, transportation, the production of
                    critical and strategic materials, education, veterans affairs, demobilization, contract terminations
                    and cutbacks, and surplus property disposal.
            Inventory no. 26, Records of the Bureau of Aeronautics, is the only one, of those
                    listed here, to extend farther back than World War II. It describes those records of the Bureau,
                    established August 10, 1921, which had been transferred to the National Archives by December, 1950.
                    Some records of predecessors of the Bureau, to which it fell heir, are also included.
            The inventory, Records of the Selective Service System, 1940-47, does not limit
                    itself to records now in the National Archives, but includes also a section listing those remaining
                    in the Selective Service System both at national and state headquarters. National headquarters has
                    transferred to the National Archives some correspondence, material relating to national selective
                    service lotteries, conscientious objectors, and appeals, directives, and reports. Some field
                    records, consisting principally of minute books of local and appeal boards, have also been placed in
                    the National Archives. The National Headquarters of the Selective Service System has retained the
                    records of paid employees, some correspondence, records of the budget officer, and reports and
                    surveys. State Headquarters have retained possession of records relating to registration,
                    information, classification, delivery and induction, and delinquents; records relating to aliens,
                    appeal board records, reports of separation; and records of volunteer personnel.
            Inventory no. 28 describes records transferred to the National Archives in 1947 from the Retraining
                    and Reemployment Administration, established February 24, 1944, to serve as a clearing house for
                    federal programs dealing with the retraining and reemployment of persons both veterans and
                    nonveterans discharged or released from the armed services or other war work.
            No. 29 concerns itself with Records of the Foreign Economic Administration. This
                    World War II agency established economic controls and carried on foreign economic operations, the
                    purpose being to assist Allied nations and to  deny to enemy
                    nations materials and manufactured products of the 
                        United States
                    . This agency which existed from September 25, 1943, to September 27, 1945, resulted
                    from the consolidation of various other agencies, among which its duties had been divided. The
                    records transferred to the National Archives and described here include those of the Chairman and
                    Executive Secretary of the President's Liaison Committee, one of the predecessors of the
                    Foreign Economic Administration; central files and a number of files of officials of the Lend-Lease
                    Administration, the Administrator of Export Control, the Economic Defense Board, the Board of
                    Economic Warfare, the Foreign Economic Administration, and the Office of Foreign Relief and
                    Rehabilitation Operations.
            The last of the preliminary inventories to be considered here is that of the War Shipping
                    Administration records. This agency was established February 7, 1942, to control the operation,
                    purchase, charter, requisition, and use of all oceangoing vessels of the 
                        United States
                     except naval vessels and transports of the armed services. In addition to records of
                    the agency transferred to the National Archives before January 1, 1951, this inventory describes
                    those of its records inherited by the Maritime Administration of the Department of Commerce after
                    the termination of the War Shipping Administration, September 1, 1946.
            
               Indiana University Doris M. Reed
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            The Search for the Real McCoy
            
               Elizabeth Hayward∗
            You may wonder what started me off on the search. It was a good deal like the old tale of the woman
                    who washed a spot off her kitchen wall and wound up by redecorating her whole house. I
                    didn't wake up one fine morning and say to myself, "This is a good day to start
                    work on a tome complete with bibliography and footnotes." Instead, I tamely thought it
                    would be a good idea to make labels for a couple of family portraits I'd inherited. Even
                    the idea for the labels wasn't original. When our children were young we used to rent a
                    house in 
                  Fairfield, Connecticut
               , for the summer and in that house were a lot of antiques.
                    The owner of the house had put a tag on each of its heirlooms—sometimes inside the top
                    drawer of a highboy, sometimes on the under side of a cradle —giving the name and dates
                    of the original owner, and occasionally a bit of the heirloom's story.
            So it was that soon after the expressman left a pair of large portraits on my doorstep I thought
                    I'd imitate our landlady. All I knew about the pictures was that their subjects, a man in a
                    towering collar and a woman in a gauze headdress, had been my great-great-grandparents, and that
                    their names were John M'Coy and Jincy Collins M'Coy. Other tiny bits of
                    information were lodged in my memory, dust-laden with the years that had passed since my grandfather
                    told them to me. There was something about John M'Coy's having founded a college;
                    something else about his having killed a bear—and what man who lived a century and a half
                    ago didn't kill a bear!—and something further about Jincy Collins
                    M'Coy's having raised a flock of children. But the dates of their lives, the
                    circumstances under which they lived, even the name of the painter who'd made the
                    portraits, were blank.
            
               
                  ∗ Elizabeth Hayward comes of a five-generation Indiana family,
                        the first of whom, William McCoy, settled in Clark's Grant in 1811. This talk was first
                        given in brief form at a "Celebrity Luncheon" at 
                     Ridgewood, New
                        Jersey
                  , the writer's present home, October 19, 1948. It was
                        expanded for delivery before the College Club of Ridgewood, April 3, 1951. The present paper
                        represents further changes and condensation.
            
            
            There may have been good fairies around my cradle; there was certainly one prankish one, for among
                    the traits she bestowed upon me is a curiosity that rivals that of the Elephant's Child.
                    Discovering that I knew almost nothing about these people was all it took to make me want to find
                    out a good lot.
            And because what I did discover came in a tumbled fashion, without the least regard for chronology or
                    sequence, may I shift it about and tell you, in fairly orderly fashion, what the search revealed? It
                    will help us all if, at the outset, you know what sort of man John M'Coy was, and why I
                    think he merits the mark of the real McCoy, that stamp of quality, be it applied to strong liquor or
                    a knockout punch or, as in his case, just to signify "tops."
            In the first place, he was a pioneer. He was born in a settler's fort in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1782. He grew up in 
                        Kentucky
                     when that region was truly "dark and bloody ground." He was one of
                    the first settlers in Clark's Grant—and, if that name is unfamiliar to you, just
                    translate it into its modern equivalent, southern Indiana on the Ohio
                    River's banks. He was a major in the War of 1812, a founder of Franklin College
                    and a champion of progress in education, in religion and in Indian affairs. He died at the age of
                    seventy-seven in 
                        Charlestown
                    , Indiana, in 1859.1
            
            Thus, you see, M'Coy's life spanned the period between the end of the Revolution
                    and the beginning of the Civil War, a period of American history that was marked by great expansion
                    and swift progress. When he was born, there were just the thirteen original colonies; when he died
                    there were thirty-three states. Material progress? John M'Coy himself made the transition
                    from wearing buckskin to broadcloth; from traveling afoot or horseback to riding on trains. His era
                    was an exciting one, for while like Paul he could say (and this is what many a man whose birth took
                    place on the heels of the Revolution did say with pride): "I was born free," yet
                    the development of that freedom into more than words rested on those whose birthright it was.
            It has been said that men either mold their times or are molded by them. M'Coy was one of
                    the first group—finding his world far from ideal, he set himself to better it. Often
                        
                  
                     1 Elizabeth Hayward, John M'Coy: His Life and
                                His Diaries (
                                New York
                            , 1948), 7, 14-30, 84-91, 113, 133.
               
                     his views ran contrary to those popularly accepted; but, once
                    he was convinced of the Tightness of an action, nothing could stop him from carrying it out. It was
                    not easy—men who work for progress have a way of being unpopular—but he
                    persisted. Added to the opposition he met from his contemporaries was a handicap that was peculiarly
                    his own: throughout his life he suffered from periodic migraine headaches. Anyone who has that same
                    trouble knows what a thorn in the flesh it is.
            In three specific fields John M'Coy worked unflaggingly: for higher education, for humane
                    treatment of the Indians and for an unselfish religion. His success is shown by the fact that some
                    of his aims have been accepted as such commonplaces of everyday life that they are taken for
                    granted. We assume that Indians are human beings and even think it a little laughable that they
                    should be considered vermin, yet in M'Coy's day to accept such a premise, and to
                    act upon it, called for courage. Then, too, many today have known the benefit of a college
                    education—yet in M'Coy's time his plans for a college were met with
                    scorn and ridicule. "Look at me," one of his neighbors might say, "all I
                    kin do is make my mark but the deeds I sign that-a-way are as good as if I'd writ the whole
                    works." Men on the frontier felt that a strong arm had it all over an educated mind, and
                    they were not slow to say so. As for M'Coy's championship of Sunday Schools,
                    missions, and a general distribution of religious texts, this championship brought him the hardest
                    fights of his entire life. Twice, because he stood firm on his principles of sharing his religion
                    with others by these means, he was excluded from his church—and exclusion, in those days,
                    meant about what excommunication does now.2
            
            In all his efforts for progress, and in their attainment, John M'Coy was, consciously or
                    unconsciously, helping make the America we know today. Christopher B. Coleman, late secretary of the
                    Indiana Historical Society, summed up his life in these words, "He is as good a
                    representative as could be found of the men, who, without making much noise or attaining political
                    fame, built up this commonwealth in the 
                  
                     2 William Harrison McCoy, History of the Oldest Baptist
                                Church in Indiana Organized at 
                                    Charlestown
                                , Ind., 1798 (Seymour, Indiana, n.d.), 6-8.
               
                     Old Northwest."3 Or, as a
                    seventeen-year-old boy exclaimed after reading M'Coy's biography, "That
                    guy had guts!" I hope you'll agree that he merited the epithet, the real McCoy.
            Now that you have some idea of what the search revealed, let's see how the facts were found.
                    There were three main trails leading to the goal: printed records, personal papers like wills and
                    letters and diaries, and people. Having been trained as a librarian in methods of research, I found
                    that a map was already in my hand: my curiosity had a means of finding some of the answers to the
                    many questions it asked.
            And at the very start of my search I discovered one essential fact: John M'Coy
                    didn't live in a vacuum. None of us do. We're influenced by the times in which we
                    live, by our families, by our religious convictions (or the lack of them), and by the places with
                    which we're associated. In the case of this man, I quickly found that I was just as
                    ignorant as could be; in fact, I don't see how just one person could possibly have known so
                    little about so much. Among the topics on which I found it essential to inform myself were American
                    history, especially that of the pioneer period, McCoy genealogy, Baptist history (for John
                    M'Coy's life was interwoven inextricably with that of his church), and Indiana
                    affairs—to say nothing of the similar-sounding but quite different Indian affairs.
            Much of this I was able to find in printed sources. To Miss Leonora Patton of the George L. Pease
                    Memorial Library a debt of gratitude is due for patiently sending to out-of-town and even to
                    out-of-state libraries for some of the rare books in these various fields. Even with the privileges
                    of the interlibrary loan, however, it was impossible to get all the books needed, and consequently
                    it was necessary to visit a number of other libraries.4
            
            It was from books, then, that it was possible to absorb enough of John M'Coy's
                    background to begin to understand the circumstances of his life. But what about the man himself? No
                    one had ever written about his career, save in fragments, and no one, so the Indiana State Library
                    informed me, 
                  
                     3 C. B. Coleman, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, to U.S. Maritime Commission, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., March 30, 1944.
                  
                     4 A list of the institutions may be found in 
                                Hayward
                            , John M'Coy, xii.
               
                     showed the slightest interest in doing so. To find out about
                    him as an individual, I had to follow trails that sometimes came to a dead end, or that, in other
                    cases, branched out into a regular network of cow paths. These roads led, metaphorically speaking,
                    through old documents and through the personal recollections of many people.
            The first documents any competent biographer tries to find are a man's love letters. Why?
                    Not just to pry into the secrets of his tender moments but because in his love letters a man reveals
                    his character as he does in no other written form of expression. Ideals, ambitions,
                    shortcomings—all are shown more clearly in those letters than in any others a person
                    writes. And did I find John M'Coy's? I did not. The young woman he married was a
                    neighbor, there in 
                        Kentucky
                    ; their courtship had the customary brevity of frontier days and the chances are a
                    hundred to one that John never wrote Jincy a line before they were married. So much for the most
                    fertile field of study of the character of a man. In M'Coy's case, that field just
                    didn't exist.
            Since there were no love letters, requests were directed to various members of the family for other
                    letters written by M'Coy, or to him. And out of those first few inquiries developed a
                    correspondence so varied and so far-flung that one of my cousins called me "The Lady Who
                    Lives in Her Mailbox." One relative would send the name of a sister who might have a few
                    facts; she in turn would refer me to a great-aunt, and so it went until letters were being exchanged
                    with people all over the country.
            What sort of people? The sort you'll find, if you look for them, in any long-established
                    American family: dozens of farmers' wives, doctors, a forest ranger, a saloonkeeper,
                    members of the clergy, insurance salesmen, teachers, railroad men, members of the D.A.R., students
                    (one of them was a Rhodes scholar), many who are "old and … nodding by the
                    fire," politicians, an undertaker's wife and members of the American Association
                    of University Women. Two of my favorite correspondents, a Catholic priest from 
                        Kentucky
                     and a Choctaw Indian, wrote me only after the book was published, but there was enough
                    of a variety among the earlier ones to suit almost any taste.
            What did we write about? The first letter of inquiry was a generalized one, asking for information
                    about John  M'Coy. Later more specific questions were
                    asked. Among them were questions like these: What was the M'Coy hog brand? (And what
                    possible interest or bearing that could have on the man's biography it is difficult to say.
                    It's true that every family had its own particular hog brand, for hogs ran loose in the
                    early days, just as branded cattle do now on the western plains, and "a crop in the right
                    ear" or "three crops and a slit in the left ear" served to distinguish
                    John Jones's hogs from Henry Anderson's.) What happened to the third picture of
                    John M'Coy? (It was possible to locate only two, one being the oil painting, another a
                    daguerrotype—but his diary referred to a third.) Why did he wait until he was forty-two
                    to join a church? When did M'Coy make his first trip to 
                        Missouri
                    ? How did he travel? (It turned out that he went by river boat.) When and where did he
                    buy the piano he left to his daughter Eliza in his will? (The answer to that one: He acquired it
                    from an Ohio River steamboat that went on the rocks at the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    , near his home.) The questions were as varied as the life of the man they concerned.
            When the correspondence piled up and the ramifications of the family began to be more than I could
                    carry in my head, I started a genealogical outline. That, too, was in the nature of the spot on the
                    kitchen wall. From a few notes set down on slips of paper, it has grown until now it has the makings
                    of a fairly complete genealogy of the descendants of James McCoy—John's
                    immigrant grandfather. Seventy-five hundred names are in it so far and it's still not
                    finished. You can see why "The Lady Who Lives in Her Mailbox" isn't a bad
                    name for me.
            Sometimes cousins trustingly sent their prized old papers without hesitation. One was a young woman
                    in 
                        Washington
                     who forwarded a whole trunkful of them. The trunk itself was a handmade wooden chest,
                    first used by a son of John M'Coy when he went off to college about 1829. That son, by the
                    way, was the first Indiana Baptist to earn a degree— and he came off with an M.A.5 His wooden chest stayed in our dining room all winter; and, in the intervals
                    between braiding my daughter's pigtails and mending my son's socks, 
                  
                     5 Isaac M'Coy graduated from 
                                Hanover
                             College in 1834 and received the degree of Master of Arts from the same
                            institution in 1837. He may also have been a student at Indiana University since a
                            M'Coy is listed in that institution's first catalogue which was issued in
                            1831.
               
                     I'd read handfuls of them. None were from John
                    M'Coy himself—in fact, by the end of the search no more than a dozen of his own
                    letters had come to light, and some of them were in a museum in 
                        Kansas
                    —but among those old letters were a good many indirect references to him.
            For instance, in a letter written by an old, old lady there was an account of how, when she was a
                    little girl, she experienced an Indian raid. One dark night prowling Indians took advantage of the
                    absence of the father of the family—he was off fighting in the War of 1812—to
                    set fire to the flax that was piled in the dooryard, intending to invade the house and kill the
                    occupants when the flames were bright enough to light the massacre. The mother escaped out a side
                    door with her children, hiding them in the underbrush. Happily for the family, neighbors as well as
                    Indians saw the flames in the dark and came posthaste to drive off the attackers. No wonder it made
                    a vivid impression on the little girl, and no wonder that, as an old woman, she thought it a story
                    worth recounting. And what did it have to do with John M'Coy? Just this: it was he whose
                    home was attacked, and it was one of his daughters who never forgot the prancing silhouettes of the
                    marauding Indians.
            Other papers in that chest revealed much about John M'Coy's children: that there
                    were ten of them and that the brood Jincy mothered was augmented by her sister's motherless
                    flock. Little more is known of this pioneer mother, Jincy Collins M'Coy, beyond the odd
                    fact that she was not married until she was twenty-five; an age which, by pioneer standards, made
                    her an old maid, and that the orphans she raised "rose up and called her blessed."
                    She, as well as John M'Coy's own mother, were literate. And, if it appears odd
                    that this fact is mentioned, it should be noted that for a frontier woman to be able to write a
                    well-composed letter denoted almost as much in the way of educational privileges as the A.B. degree
                    does today. Truly, "the world do move," and women with it.
            The trunk was the largest item that a member of the family sent me, but there were smaller things
                    that also shed light on the real McCoy. One was the only personal description of him that remains.
                    It was written in 1884, twenty-five years after his death, to be sure, but while people who knew him
                    were still living. It described him as "tall, slender 
                    and homely." This scrap was forwarded by a doctor in 
                        San Bernardino
                    . It was months later when the original brief biographical sketch from which the
                    description had been taken was found, and it was discovered that the doctor's secretary had
                    miscopied it to the extent of changing one letter. That letter made quite a difference, for the
                    original description read, "tall, slender and comely." She'd transformed
                    the man from what today might be called "tall, dark and handsome" into a fellow
                    like Ichabod Crane.
            Some of my correspondents were less trusting than those just mentioned. For example, there was a
                    banker in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He ignored my first letter so I wrote him again, mentioning that I was acquainted with
                    someone in his city; in fact, I'd been her guest recently. His reply came by air mail.
                    "Here's the information you want," he said. "Why didn't
                    you tell me you knew Laura Miller? She was my first Sunday School teacher and anyone she takes under
                    her roof must be all right."
            Another distant cousin, this time from 
                        Illinois
                    , sent a full transcript of the records in her old family Bible, but attached to the
                    transcript was a notarized statement that these records were not for publication. Under those
                    circumstances, they did little good but eventually it was possible to get her consent to use them.
            Then there was another midwest cousin who wrote, "Anything you can do to add lustre to the
                    McCoy name will suit me fine. I'm sick and tired of being asked if I've killed any
                    Hatfields lately." It was possible to reassure this cousin, for thanks to research done by
                    William Woodson Harris, it has been proved that the McCoy family of which John M'Coy was a
                    member had no relation to that of the Hatfield-McCoy feud.
            Now and then one of the correspondents would refer obliquely to the diary of John M'Coy. No
                    one, however, admitted ever having seen it or knowing its whereabouts. It was only by chance that it
                    was discovered, right in the keeping of my own aunt, Mrs. Lafayette Hillis. She waited to make sure
                    that I was seriously interested in gathering material about John M'Coy, then she sent it to
                    me, from 
                        Kansas
                    , one Christmas. Never did Santa Claus bring a gift that was more truly "just
                    what I wanted." All my explorations, up to that time, had uncovered no more than
                    half-a-dozen pages in  John M'Coy's own
                    handwriting. Here, at one clip, were hundreds of pages of his own records. The discovery of that
                    diary brought the realization that I'd come a good way from my original idea of just
                    writing out a label.
            Diaries vary with the individuality of the person who writes them. This one, every word of which was
                    legible, was the day-by-day record of a man between sixty-five and sixty-nine years of age, written
                    when his active life was largely over. Even so, it revealed so much of the detail of the live of his
                    times that even to my non-professional eyes it was an important historical document. The Indiana
                    State Library confirmed my guess, offering to finance having the diary put on microfilm. The
                    library's object was to preserve the diary against possible loss and also to make it
                    available to researchers. I had the interesting experience, then new to me, of supervising the
                    making of the microfilm. Copies of it were ordered by various large libraries across the country,
                    after which, to my chagrin, I proceeded to lose the negative in the mail. It wasn't done
                    "with malice aforethought" but it ended the microfilm production abruptly. Now, of
                    course, the text of that diary is incorporated in John M'Coy: His Life and His
                        Diaries so there is no need of a microfilm.
            The diary is a source of historical information because few diaries of the place and period are
                    available, and more and more, historians are coming to value the social history which such records
                    afford. Written on the spot, they make up for their neglect of big topics by their wealth of detail
                    about small ones.
            An instance of what M'Coy's diary showed is his incidental mention of income and
                    expense. His diary is no account book, but from its pages can be reconstructed one man's
                    scale of living and what it cost him to maintain it. The diary shows that in 1851, just a century
                    ago, a man could live comfortably in retirement on an income of less than two hundred dollars a
                    year. Before you sigh for the Good Old Days, let me add that he had to pay a tax bill of
                    $36.73, about eighteen per cent of his entire income. And even by today's
                    yardstick, that proportion is fairly high. But think of a man's clothing costing only
                    $17.50 for a whole year, even though it included a pair of tailor-made trousers (which
                    M'Coy called "pantaloons") and—supreme luxury—  a black silk cravat and matching pocket handkerchief, for
                    $2.30.
            With one diary in my possession, that inborn curiosity of which I've spoken drove me to try
                    harder than ever to find the others—for there was clear internal evidence that there were
                    others. By baiting a great many hooks and pulling in the lines at the slightest twitch, I did find
                    two more. There were five of John M'Coy's diaries in all, covering the last
                    seventeen years of his life. Those that eventually came to light were the first, third, and
                    fifth—the second and fourth may have gone up in flames during some good
                    housekeeper's spring cleaning, or they may have floated off in an Ohio
                    River flood—it was on the banks of that stream that M'Coy and his
                    immediate family spent much of their lives. Even the publication of the book about M'Coy
                    has brought no sign of those missing diaries, as I hoped it might. Copies of the book have been
                    bought in practically every state in the Union and dozens of its readers have communicated with me.
                    None, however, have known anything about the two still-missing links. I do know that as late as 1920
                    one of them was Deep in the Heart of 
                        Texas
                    , but even though I've visited that state and made many inquiries there,
                    it's never come to light.
            The other two diaries that did materialize were both given me because a member of the family had met
                    me and become convinced that I could be trusted to return them. For instance, a cousin
                    who's on the staff of a hospital in 
                        New York
                     came out to have a picnic with our family one day while the search for the real McCoy
                    was in progress. She must have sent a good report back to her 
                        Illinois
                     kinfolks, for the next thing—up popped a second diary from that quarter. All
                    the persuasive letters which had been written to that branch of the family had brought not so much
                    as a hint of the diary: a single personal contact gave the needed assurance.
            The surrender of the third diary came about in a different way, but again through a personal meeting.
                    One summer my husband and I took our then-small daughter with us on an Ohio
                    River trip. We followed the 
                        Ohio
                    's me-anderings aboard the "Gordon C. Greene," a typical
                    river boat, from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . When we reached 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where we were to wait over a day before the return  trip, I remarked casually that some of my far-flung cousins lived in 
                        Piqua
                    , whereupon my husband said, "Let's call them up and see if
                    they're at home." We did, they were, and so we hired a drive-yourself car and rode
                    through the pleasant 
                        Ohio
                     countryside to Piqua. There I met for the first time a cousin, Maysel Davis, who later
                    became a firm friend and a hearty supporter of the search for the real McCoy. That day we visited
                    her she brought down boxes of old papers from her attic—boxes that had much to interest
                    me in their contents. And later, after we got back to Ridgewood, came a letter saying she'd
                    persuaded her brother, an Indiana man, to lend me his treasured diary.
            Through such personal contacts it was possible to gather some of the facts about John M'Coy.
                    A cousin in 
                        Ohio
                    , a Presbyterian minister, helped to identify the artist who painted those portraits
                    that set me off on the search. While it isn't a hard-and-fast fact, for the portraits are
                    unsigned, there is a strong probability that they are the work of Matthew Harris Jouett, a 
                        Kentucky
                     artist who was a pupil of Gilbert Stuart. His work is highly valued and even within the
                    last year some of his paintings, including one of John M'Coy's brother Isaac, were
                    pictured in Town and Country.
            
            Then there was Grace Marshall who, at the time of her sudden death, was a candidate for
                    president-general of the D.A.R. She knew of my interest in her family and drove over from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to call on me. She shared with me the results of her search of 
                        Virginia
                     records, including a full copy of the will of John M'Coy's
                    great-grandfather, John Bruce. Others who called were a French teacher from 
                        Louisiana
                    , an official of the 
                        California
                     Automobile Association, and a charming young woman from 
                        Texas
                    .
            Perhaps the most valuable personal contact of all was with the aunt in 
                        Kansas
                    , the one who gave me her own copy of a diary. We had never been close while I was
                    growing up, largely due to the accident of geography, but as we wrote back and forth about the
                    progress of the search, we became so. It ended by Mrs. Hillis' paying us a
                    visit—her only trip east—and by my going to 
                        Wichita
                     to help take care of her when she was seriously ill. Her interest in the search for the
                    real McCoy grew by leaps and bounds, and I am indebted to her for much help with it. Until her
                    health failed, she made forays in the midwest for me and even after she was  no longer able to travel she used her influence with other members of
                    the tribe on my behalf. She was a childless widow with comparatively few demands on her time and as
                    her interest in the story of John M'Coy developed she became more and more eager to see it
                    finished. Although she didn't live to see the book in print she did read the completed
                    manuscript and hers were among the first words of commendation it evoked.
            There were times, of course, during the search when I wondered if it were worth all the trouble and
                    expense. Mrs. Hillis' encouragement helped to pull me out of the Slough of Despond, and
                    then, after the first chapter was written, another lift came. A distant cousin—distant in
                    space as well as in degree of relationship—wrote that he'd heard I'd
                    gathered the story of the start of our McCoys in this country, and offered me twenty-five dollars
                    for the privilege of reading the single chapter then completed. What's more the check was
                    enclosed with the letter. It was the first sign that anyone might care enough about the material to
                    pay for it, and it was a spur.
            And so, a little at a time, the story of John M'Coy's life crossed my desk. True,
                    there were gaps in it—there still are. One of them concerns his second marriage. Jincy
                    Collins M'Coy died at the age of fifty-seven, a victim of tuberculosis, the same disease
                    that carried off her sister and left that sister's children for her to raise. Five years
                    later her husband married again, but his second wife, Elinor Finley, lived only a short time. What
                    she was like, where she came from, who her people were, remain unsolved mysteries. A greater riddle
                    is why John M'Coy's children never referred to her, nor did he himself in the
                    diaries written after her death. The full story is one I hoped might come to light with the
                    publication of the book, but like the missing diaries it remains lost in limbo.
            Another gap is how M'Coy felt about slavery. The conflict over it was brewing throughout the
                    years in which he kept his diaries, yet there is not the slightest indication in them of his feeling
                    on the matter. His three brothers, with whom he was on the best of terms, were strong in their
                    feeling that slavery was wrong, and if he differed with them it is the only instance in which they
                    did not see eye-to-eye on a question of morals. Two of those brothers left wills that  showed how strongly they felt on the subject. Isaac McCoy wrote in his
                    will that he was the owner of a young slave woman and her children, having bought them out of pity
                    lest the family be divided. He left explicit instructions that the slave children were to be given
                    the same kind of education as his own, and at the expense of his estate, while the mother was to be
                    given her freedom as soon as she had worked long enough for her wages to balance her purchase price.
                    Another brother, Royce McCoy, wrote a letter of sound advice to his children. In it are these words:
                    "Never, my dear children, stain your hands with the blood of the poor oppressed negroes.
                    That is, take no part in oppressing them, in buying, selling or hiring them, and let not one cent
                    come into your possession by the traffic in them." And in his will he provided that a small
                    sum of money that was due him, his share of an inheritance that came from the sale of a slave, was
                    to be multiplied by four and used either to buy that slave's freedom or as a contribution
                    to one of the antislavery organizations, the American Colonization Society.
            Perhaps there is a sound reason for John M'Coy's strange silence on this subject.
                    There were, on the Indiana side of the Ohio River, stations on the underground
                    railway which was used by escaping slaves. Remember Eliza crossing the ice? It is barely possible
                    that M'Coy had a part in helping those fugitive slaves. Perhaps some of the
                    innocent-sounding recurrent expressions he used in his diaries, expressions such as "tended
                    to some little domestic affairs," were his code for activities having to do with the
                    underground railway.
            Much material was gathered by mail and through visitors, but not all the facts about M'Coy
                    came to me while I sat like a spider in the middle of her web. There was other material, much of it
                    quite important, that necessitated traveling. I visited some sixteen libraries and historical
                    institutions, scattered from 
                        Connecticut
                     to 
                        Texas
                    ; I searched in courthouses and in old cemeteries and, finally, I visited a number of
                    the scattered cousins who'd written me. The courthouses were often, to put it bluntly,
                    drafty and smelly; the old cemeteries had briars that snagged my stockings, but the cousins were a
                    real delight.
            One trip took me to 
                        Washington
                    , where I consulted the National Archives and two other libraries. To a researcher, the
                    National Archives is like a dream come true. Once the  hurdle of
                    gaining a card of admission is past, using that collection of important documents is like using the
                    very finest private library. Each user, for instance, is assigned a private desk, well lighted,
                    comfortable and—as a crowning attention—equipped with the particular make of
                    typewriter he is accustomed to use at home. The staff is just as outstanding as the equipment;
                    courteous, intelligent, thoroughly familiar with the resources of this great public collection of
                    historic documents.
            I was working primarily with the pension records of men of the McCoy family who had fought in the
                    three wars that had a special bearing on John M'Coy's life—his sons and
                    grandsons, by the way, served on both sides of the conflict that is known to some as the War Between
                    the States and to others as the Civil War. One surprising feature of the pledge one must sign to
                    work with these pension records is a statement that you will keep secret anything you uncover that
                    may be to the detriment of a soldier. Naively, I asked what could appear in the records, other than
                    desertion, to injure a man's reputation. The man behind the desk looked up and said wryly,
                    "There is such a thing as a soldier's having illegitimate
                    children, you know." After that warning I was relieved, I confess, to find that all the
                    little McCoys named in their father's pension applications were born in wedlock.
            The Indiana State Library and the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical
                    Society are other institutions for which I have a warm admiration. Before visiting there,
                    I'd corresponded with members of the staff, and had received many courtesies from them,
                    but, even so, I wasn't prepared for the warmth of the welcome I received in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            At some of the institutions visited, the staff's attitude was clearly that of,
                    "Well, some people have queer tastes, and here's one of the queerest."
                    And at others I was made to feel that I was something that ought to be swept under the rug. Doing an
                    extended research project isn't all free lunches!
            In complete contrast to the institutions just mentioned —but not specifically
                    named—was the red carpet welcome received at the Dallas Museum. I went there to examine
                    some family papers that are kept in a locked vault. One of  John
                    M'Coy's sons, his namesake, in fact, was a founder of Dallas and consequently
                    anything pertaining to him is valued by the city. The archivist was as cordial and helpful as could
                    be, and so was the director of the Dallas Historical Society, Herbert Gambrell.
            Another excursion took me to Franklin, Indiana, the seat of the college that John M'Coy
                    helped to found in 1834. Franklin is small and its costs are low, but its standards are high. It is
                    fully accredited, nationally as well as regionally.
            Thinking that it might add to the story of M'Coy to discover what the college he worked so
                    hard to establish had grown to be, I asked the administrative offices for a guide. The head of the
                    English department was assigned and together we toured the buildings and the campus. Then I inquired
                    about the college's collection of nineteenth century periodicals. It's an odd fact
                    that small midwestern college has material in that field that is absolutely unmatched. No other
                    copies of some of the periodicals it owns are to be found anywhere else at all, not even in the
                    Library of Congress or the British Museum. And so it was that the professor, a muscular man as well
                    as a good-tempered one, spent a large part of one Sunday afternoon lugging big damp volumes off the
                    library's basement shelves. Why damp? Because there'd been a
                    flood in 
                        Franklin
                     that spring and the pages of those extremely rare volumes were still wet with the
                    waters of that flood. It was well for their preservation that those periodicals were printed on
                    durable rag paper. In their pages was much material valuable for my purpose—stories,
                    written while the events they chronicled were actually happening, of how John M'Coy and
                    those few who agreed with him were struggling against ignorance and even having the hardihood to
                    establish such a college as Franklin.
            And so it was that the search for the real McCoy drew to its close—or as much so as the
                    story of a real person ever can be said to be finished. There were enough facts to build up a story
                    of John M'Coy's life on sound evidence; there were transcripts of hundreds of
                    pages of the diaries he'd kept, together with a mass of identifying notes; there were maps
                    and pictures and a family chart to illustrate the story. In dutiful librarian-fashion I'd
                    prepared a bibliography as well as an index. All that was lacking was a publisher, and then, thanks
                    to the suggestion of Howard Peckham of the  Indiana Historical
                    Bureau, even that gap was filled. With the publication of John M'Coy: His Life
                        and His Diaries, the search came to its end. It started small, like the spot on the kitchen
                    wall, and it ended, not with a fine, fresh, newly-redecorated house, but with a five hundred page
                    tome.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
