
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 7, Issue 1, pages 1-39. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:7+issue:1+year:1911&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            HISTORY OF CANALS IN INDIANA.
            
               BY HOWARD PAYNE COMSTOCK, Earlham College.
            THE history of any country or nation will show that the arteries which carried the first thrills of
                    civilization into its borders were the waterways. The natural waterways have ever been the first
                    paths of pioneer exploration. America's rivers were thoroughly explored along the Eastern
                    coast for the vain chance of finding a connection with the Pacific ocean, then
                    unknown. After the early settlers came, they followed the rivers westward as much as they could.
            In the natural evolution of the settling of the country, we find the explorers pushing westward.
                    "The discovery of a portage connecting two rivers leading into new regions was a most
                    Valuable discovery for the French," [Johns Hopkins University Series, No. 21, Early History
                    of the 
                        Wabash Trade Route
                    , p. 11] who early used the St. Lawrence and Ottawa
                        rivers in their expeditions to the Mississippi Valley in
                    furtherance of their fur trade. Such a chain of natural passage was as but the kind act of 
                        Providence
                     in furnishing them a means of opening up all the adjacent territory, without the
                    hazards of an overland trail.
            The early routes from Lake Erie to the 
                        Mississippi
                     basin were by means of the Ottawa river, Lake
                    Nipissing, Green Bay, the Fox,
                        Wisconsin and Mississippi rivers, with two or three
                    portages thrown in. Then a portage was established at the lower end of Lake
                    Michigan, and this in turn yielded to the route from Lake Erie, down
                    the Maumee, across a short portage to the Wabash river, then down this river to
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     and into the 
                        Mississippi
                    . This trail became as well worn as a muskrat slide, numbers of which lined its banks.
                    This became known as the "
                        Wabash Trade Route
                    ," which was such an important factor in the development  of the Old Northwest. French settlements sprang up along the route and
                    later the French 'forts formed a strategic line of watchdogs against trespassing by the
                    English.
            But the greatest need was the ability to cross from one natural waterway to another and thereby
                    connect the various water routes that were being used. Where short portages existed this could be
                    overcome, but there were many localities which would require many weary miles of portage and were
                    practically prohibitive of accomplishment. Some artificial means of making such connections were
                    constantly being planned, but none were put into practical operation.
            And to prove that the agitation for canals in the early history of our State was but a natural
                    outcome of necessity and development, one has but to refer to the systems of the old countries of
                    Europe. A natural evolution has been going on in all these countries, and we find today that the
                    leading countries have had to resort to the artificial means of furnishing waterway transportation
                    by making canals. "Comparative cheapness and facility with which goods may be conveyed by
                    sea or by means of navigable rivers seem to have suggested, at a very early period, the formation of
                    canals. From the best authenticated accounts of ancient 
                        Egypt
                    , that country was intersected by canals." [Lalor, Encyclopedia of Political
                    Economy, etc., Vol. I, p. 331.]
            Canals, partly for irrigation and partly for transportation, have existed in 
                        China
                     from an early period. The Italians were the first people in modern Europe to plan and
                    execute canals. The Dutch in the Netherlands, and especially in 
                        Holland
                    , have a network of canals, built above the fields that the water from inundations may
                    be pumped into them and be carried away. 
                        France
                     started a canal in 1605 and completed it in 1642. Thus, in the midst of our
                    investigation of the causes for and the attempt to build canals in Indiana, we must not lose sight
                    of the fact that there was feasibility about the whole matter.
            When Indiana came into the Union as a State in 1816, she brought with her the growing interest in the
                    canal question. Governor Jennings, in 1818, made a fervent appeal to the Legislature to consider the
                    question of a system of canals and roads.  [Message, Jennings,
                    1818.] The State was becoming populated, and there was no natural outlet for the produce of the
                    territory except to the southern markets. In this the counties along the 
                        Wabash
                     and the 
                        Ohio
                     were especially fortunate.
            At this early date the plan for a canal connecting Lake Erie with the 
                        Wabash
                     was beginning to take definite shape. It began as a Federal enterprise, and, after much
                    talk and spirited debate in the halls of both State and national legislatures, a bill was finally
                    passed by the national Congress in 1824, [Ann. of Congress, 1823–4, p. 788; Vol. I, p.
                    16021 providing for a survey of the proposed canal with a grant of land ninety feet on either side
                    of the right of way. The surveying was left to the State and was required to be finished within
                    three years. Congress had some time previous to this granted to the State 3 per cent on the sales of
                    all public lands, "to be reserved for making public roads and canals." This was
                    expected to form a nucleus for beginning the work.
            Government surveyors soon made their reports. Part of the territory through which the canal was to
                    run belonged to 
                        Ohio
                    , instead of all being within the limits of Indiana, as had been supposed. Therefore,
                    the territory granted to Indiana by Congress and which lay in 
                        Ohio
                     was authorized to be conveyed to 
                        Ohio
                    . [U. S. Statutes at 
                        Large
                    , Vol. IV, p. 306.] The Indiana Legislature passed an act "providing means to
                    construct the portion of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal within the State of Indiana." [Laws, Ind.,
                    1829–30, Ch. 8, p. 13, Jan. 28, 1830.] This act provided for a board of commissioners
                    elected by the House and Senate, on joint ballot, all vacancies to be filled by the Governor. The
                    powers and duties of the commissioners were fully set forth. A supplemental act, [Laws, Ind.,
                    1831–2, Ch. 1, p. 3 to 91 January 9, 1832, accepted Joseph Ridgeway, Jr.'s
                    location and estimate of the middle section of the canal, "to connect the waters of the
                        Wabash river and Lake Erie, embracing the 
                        St. Joseph
                     feeder, and the canal line thence to the Little river."
                    The estimate of the entire cost was $1,081,970. The canal fund was constituted so that it
                    would consist of moneys arising "from the sale of lands donated by the 
                        United States
                     to this State for the  construction of said
                    canal." Thirty-two miles of the canal were placed under contract this year.
            By act of January 31, 1833, [Ind. Laws, 1832–3, Ch. 57, pp. 48–51] the canal
                    fund was to be deposited in bank and all loans to individuals were to be strictly prohibited. The
                    remaining part of the middle section was to be put under contract.
            In 1834, [Ind. Laws, 1833–4, Ch. 14, pp. 49–54] a loan was authorized for
                    $400,000 on a credit of forty years for the completion of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal; but redeemable in whole or in part after
                    twenty-five years at the option of the State, at not more than 6 per cent. interest. The contracts
                    on the canal were directed to be let. A survey from 
                        Logansport
                     to the mouth of the Tippecanoe river was ordered, as well as a
                    survey of a route down White river.
            The agitation concerning the 
                        Ohio
                     end of the canal was a source of worry to the Indiana enthusiasts. 
                        Ohio
                     seemed to be very slow about taking up the proposition. Indiana, accordingly, February
                    1, 1834, [Ind. Laws, 1833–4, Ch. 152, pp. 359–3601 passed a joint resolution
                    by which she gave up claims to lands in the State of 
                        Ohio
                     granted to Indiana by Congress, on the following conditions: 
                  The State of 
                                Ohio
                             must construct, keep in repair, and maintain a canal of given dimensions to
                            remain a public highway.
                  No excess toll would be exacted of this particular canal.
                  
                     
                                Ohio
                             must complete her portion before March 2, 1837.
                  
                     
                                Ohio
                             to accept these terms and conditions, and notify the Governor of Indiana by
                            March 31, 1834.
               
                
            
               
                        Ohio
                     had started several improvements of her own, and she hesitated upon entering another
                    huge undertaking. She finally accepted the compact of February 1, and the last of her surveys having
                    been taken and the route settled, the contract for her portion was let in 1836. [Doc. Journal, No.
                    2, p. 2, 1837.]
            In the meantime Indiana had gone ahead in her work. The first ground was broken at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , [
                  Cass County Times, Logansport
               , March, 18321 February 22, 1832, and by 1834, a
                    "small part had been completed and the first canal boat launched. The first section of
                    thirty-two miles, from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Huntington
                    ,  was opened July 4, 1835." [House Journals,
                    20th Session, p. 12.] The cost of this portion was $232,000. [Cockrum, A Pioneer History
                    of Indiana, p. 535.]
            It was at this stage of the game that Indiana began to grow reckless. During the period of the canal
                    experiment, reports of the success of internal improvements in general in 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     began to make the people in Indiana anxious to keep in line. The sentiment seemed to
                    prevail that if a little was a good thing, it would pay to take a long chance and do the thing up
                    brown. Accordingly, in 1835, the result of the increased agitation became focused in the Legislature
                    in the shape of the "Mammoth Bill," so-called because of the gigantic operations
                    for which it provided. In fact, it was a system of State-wide internal improvements, with an
                    estimated cost of $5,910,000. These proposed works included an extension of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal from the Tippecanoe river to 
                        Lafayette
                    , and a perfect network of roads, turnpikes, canals, etc. The bill was left over till
                    the next session in order to gather information concerning it.
            The summer campaign became wrapped up in the internal improvement question. While the State was later
                    accused of entering foolhardily into something with her eyes shut, yet the question was discussed
                    pro and con as no other question had been. The improvement issue was hard fought. Because of the
                    fact that every part of the State was affected and interested in the outcome, no sectionalism could
                    be sprung. The main question for final consideration was whether the new railroads would ever
                    supercede the canals. That was where the difficulty lay, to be found out many years later. At that
                    time the expense of operating the crude type of locomotive seemed to shut out forever the
                    possibility of the railroad becoming a dividend producer.
            The elections over and the Legislature in session the following winter, the question of internal
                    improvements was transferred to the halls of the Legislature. On January 27, 1836, was enacted into
                    law the famous Internal Improvement Act. [Laws, 1835–6, Ch. 2. Ind. Hist. Soc. Pub., Vol.
                    II, p. 19.] This act provided for: 
                    
                  Whitewater canal, and a connection between it and the Central canal by canal, if
                            practicable, if not, by railroad.
                  Central canal.
                  An extension of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal from the mouth of the Tippecanoe
                                river to 
                                Terre Haute
                            , and thence to connect with the Central canal.
                  A railroad from 
                                Madison
                            , via 
                                Indianapolis
                             to 
                                Lafayette
                            .
                  A macadamized turnpike from 
                                New Albany
                             to 
                                Vincennes
                            .
                  A railroad, if practicable, if not, a macadamized road from 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , via 
                                New Albany
                             and 
                                Salem
                             to 
                                Crawfordsville
                            .
                  The removal of obstructions to navigation of the Wabash river,
                            between its mouth and 
                                Vincennes
                            .
                  The 
                                Erie
                             and 
                                Michigan
                             canal or railroad.
               
                
            The bill went through the House with a vote of sixty-five to eighteen, and through the Senate by a
                    safe two-thirds. The Speaker of the House had called attention to the seriousness of the act, and
                    Governor Noble had recommended an expenditure of ten million dollars toward the improvement
                    movement. [Doc. Journals, 1837–8; Gov. Message, Dec., 1836.] The bill, which met with the
                    favor of public sentiment, created a Board of Internal Improvements, consisting of nine members,
                    appointed by the Governor, three of whom should have their terms expire every third year. At this
                    point one should consider the method of the work, so that an intelligent understanding of the
                    progress of the work can be had. The method of appointing each commissioner to superintend a certain
                    portion of the entire system led to rivalry between them. Every one wanted his locality to be
                    benefited first, and wanted the approval of his community by securing a speedy completion of his
                    local part. Thus we can see the handwriting on the wall for the entire system.
            Cockrum, [Cockrum, Hist. of Ind., Ch. 23, p. 5331 in his opening statement on the canal question,
                    says: "If the wise counsel of Governor Hendricks in his message to the Legislature in 1822
                    had been followed, a great misfortune to the financial interests of the State would have been
                    averted and a great many of the attempted improvements would have been finished and become paying
                    properties, from which the State would have derived a handsome 
                    revenue, as other States, which were more careful in the construction of their public works, did.
                    Instead of attempting to construct ten or twelve expensive works at the same time, if there had been
                    two or three of these carried to completion and placed in condition to be operated, all that were
                    needed of the many which were attempted to be constructed would have been finished. It was proved to
                    the satisfaction of all that many of these properties would have become paying
                    investments." [Cockrum, Hist. of Ind., Ch. 23, p. 533.]
            However, the work went merrily on. The Wabash and Erie
                    Canal was completed to 
                        Wabash
                    , July 4, 1837. The section between M'abash and Peru was opened the same month. 
                        Logansport
                     was reached September, 1839, while the original terminus, the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , was reached in 1841. [J. H. U. Series, No. 21, p. 56.] The bill of 1836 had provided
                    for the extension of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal from the mouth of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , one hundred and four miles, and the first section as far as 
                        Lafayette
                     was finished July 4, 1843. The estimate of the entire extension was
                    $1,500,000, but the total amount expended was only $408,855, no work being
                    done below 
                        Lafayette
                    . [Cockrum, History of Indiana, p. 538.]
            The hyhitewater Canal Company was incorporated January 21, 1826, [Laws, 1825–6, Ch. 21,
                    pp. 29–36] with a capital stock of 40,000 shares, of $25 each. Provisions were
                    made for organizing, and the company was permitted to appropriate the lands and materials of other
                    persons. The laborers on the canal were excused from all military duty. The canal was to start near 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , thence to the county of 
                        Wayne
                    , and thence to the Wabash river near 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . The width of the canal was to be at least forty feet at the bottom, and must be
                    commenced in two years. This time was later extended. [Laws, Jan. 23, 1827.] In the general
                    improvement system bill of 1836, the Whitewater canal was taken up.
            The route was fixed as "connecting on the west branch of the Whitewater
                    river, at the crossing of the National Road, thence passing down the valley of the same
                    to the Ohio river at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , and extending up the said west branch of the Whitewater  above the National Road as far as may be practicable; also, a
                    connection between the said Whitewater canal and the Central canal, by canal, if practicable; if
                    not, by railroad." [Laws, 1835–6, Ch. 2, p. 7.] An appropriation of
                    $1,400,000 was made. Provision was made whereby, if 
                        Ohio
                     should refuse to build that portion of the canal which ran within her limits, a
                    railroad should be built along the State boundary between the two points.
            The little town buzzed with importance on September 13, 1836, when the contracts for the various
                    sections were let, under the auspices of the State, at 
                        Brookville
                    . By 1839, about one-half of the work between 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Cambridge
                     and the entire canal of thirty-one miles from 
                        Brookville
                     to the Ohio river was completed. The work cost
                    $1,099,867, while the rents and tolls had been $9,902.41. [Laws,
                    1841–2, Ch. 8, pp. 37–45.]
            On January 20, 1842, the Legislature chartered the Whitewater Valley Canal
                    Company, with a capital stock of $400,000. The State ceded her interest in the Whitewater
                    canal because of the pecuniary embarrassment of the State of Indiana, which had caused an entire
                    suspension of all operations on the canal for about two and a half years. Further reason was given
                    as, "the cost of superintendence and repair upon that portion of said canal now finished,
                    exceeds the entire income from both tolls and water rents, and is an annual tax upon the State
                    Treasury, and likely to so continue, if left in its present condition, … and, whereas, an
                    immense amount of work done upon and materials supplied for the said canal are rapidly going to
                    destruction, and will soon be quite useless, unless said canal is soon completed at a large
                    additional expense." [Laws, 1841–2, Ch. 8, pp. 37–45.]
            The Whitewater Valley Canal Company took charge of the improvement, and, under
                    the private enterprise, finished the canal through 
                        Laurel
                     and 
                        Connersville
                     as far as the National Road in 
                        Cambridge City
                     in October, 1843. The total cost was $743,000. [Ind. Mag. of Hist., Vol. V.
                    No. 4, p. 164.] The old canal can still be seen as one goes down the main street in 
                        Cambridge City
                    .
            The Hagerstown Canal Company was incorporated February  15, 1841. [Laws, 1840–1.] By 1847 this company completed the
                    canal from 
                        Cambridge City
                     to 
                        Hagerstown
                    . We are told that this canal soon fell into disuse except "as a source of
                    water power."
            The Central canal was to commence "at the most suitable point on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal between 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    , running thence to hluncietown, thence to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , thence down the West Fork of White river to its junction with the
                    East Fork of said river, and thence by the most practicable route to 
                        Evansville
                     on the 
                        Ohio
                    ." [Laws, 1835–6, Ch. 2, pp. 7–8.] Provision was made,
                    however, that if more practicable, the board should "select the lower Pipe creek route in
                    the line north from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , then and in that case, a feeder shall commence at hluncietown and communicate with
                    said Central canal at some convenient point on same. For the construction of which Central canal and
                    navigable feeder, the sum of $3,500,000 is hereby appropriated." [Laws,
                    1835–6, Ch. 2, pp. 7–8.]
            The Central canal was to be two hundred and ninety miles in length. The work was "completed
                    from Broad Ripple to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the spring of 1839, and the water was turned into it. It was formally opened on June
                    27, 1839." [
                        Indianapolis
                     Journal, Aug. 12, 1900, p. 16, c. 4.] This was the only portion finished, though a
                    "great deal of work was done between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and TVabashtown, and the canal was almost completed from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to the bluffs of White river when the Board of Internal
                    Improvements failed." [Ind. Mag. of Hist., Vol. V, No. 4, p. 165.3 The canal was finally
                    sold "for $2,400 to Shoup, Kewman and Rariden. of 
                        New York
                    , who assigned their purchase to one Cromwell, and a deed was made to him by the
                    Legislature." [
                        Indianapolis
                     Journal, Aug. 12, 1900, p. 16, c. 4.] After passing through several transfers, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Waterworks Company bought it, in whose possession it still remains,—a
                    remnant and silent scuvenir of one of the greatest movements that Indiana ever attempted for the
                    public progress and prosperity.
            The Internal Improvement-Act of 1836 further provided for a "survey and estimate to be made
                    of a canal, if practicable, if not a railroad, from the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal at or near 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ,  by the way of 
                        Goshen
                     and 
                        South Bend
                    , and Laporte, if practicable, to Lake Michigan, at or near 
                        Michigan City
                    , to be called the 
                        Erie
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     canal, or railroad; said route to be kept within the limits of the State. [Laws,
                    1835–6, Ch. 2, p. 9.]
            The Erie and Michigan canal never got much farther than the paper stage, for it was never completed.
                    The Legislature provided for a loan of not more than $10,000,000, on a credit of
                    twenty-five years, at not more than 5 per cent. interest. [Laws, 1835–6, Ch. 2, p. 9.]
                    Several routes were surveyed and in turn rejected as infeasible. In the Auditor's report,
                    October 31, 1852, the total expenditures made on the route was $160,708.87. Attached to
                    it was the laconic notation, "There have been no receipts." [Doc. Journals,
                    Reports, 1852, p. 87.] The only portion of the work available was the water power at the Northport
                    feeder dam, which, by an act of the Legislature, was conveyed to 
                        Noble county
                     for school purposes. [Doc. Journals, Reports, 1852, p. 87.] Thus ended that canal.
            The Eel River Crosscut canal, which was to extend from the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal at 
                        Terre Haute
                     to the Central canal at the waters of Eel river, became a section
                    of the Central canal.
            The report of the Auditor of State, October 31, 1852, was as follows: 
                  
                     COST.
                  
                  
                     Central Canal, Northern division
                     $ 889,067.94
                  
                  
                     Erie and Michigan
                     160,708.87
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 and Erie, east of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                
                     
                     3,055,268.97
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 and Erie, west of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                
                     
                     1,245,290.54
                  
                  
                     
                        Eel River Crosscut, up to July 1,1847
                     436,189.88
                  
                  
                     Central Canal, Southern division
                     575,646.49
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 and Erie
                     9,169.94
                  
                  
                     Total cost
                     $6,371,342.63
                  
               
                    
                  
                     RECEIPTS.
                  
                  
                     Central Canal, Northern division
                     $ 20,756.00
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 and Erie, east of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                
                     
                     1,174,611.83
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 and Erie, west of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                .
                     526,847.61
                  
                  
                     Total receipts
                     $1,722,215.44
                  
                  
                  
                     Excess expenditures over receipts
                     4,649,127.19
                  
                  
                     Excess expenditures, Whitewater Canal
                     1,092,373.63
                  
                  
                     Total excess of expenditures over receipts on these works
                     $5,741,500.82
                  
               
                
            The Legislature authorized the survey of the East Fork canal from 
                        Richmond
                    , in 
                        Wayne county
                    , along the valley of the East Fork of Whitewater to intersect the Whitewater canal at
                    or near 
                        Brookville
                    , in 
                        Franklin county
                    . [Laws, 1836–7, Ch. 21, p. 74.] The Board of Internal Improvements were
                    directed to use the State engineers on this survey, who were working on the other parts of the works
                    of the State.
            Colonel Torbet, the engineer, in his report says: "
                        Richmond
                    , situated at the head of navigation, with its vast water power, extensive capital and
                    enterprising inhabitants, might become the
            Pittsburg of Indiana…The stock subscription for this
            
               
                        Richmond
                    -
                        Brookville
                     canal was opened April 21, 1839. The 
                        Richmond Palladium
                     of April 27, 1839, states that 
                  Franklin,
                            Union
               , and 
                        Wayne counties
                     had taken $215,000 worth of stock, of which $50,000 was taken by 
                        Richmond
                    ." [Laws, 1836–7.]
            Bids were let in 1839. About one and a half miles of excavation was made near 
                        Richmond
                    , and some similar excavations were made near 
                        Fairfield
                    . The only use made of any of this work was when Leroy Marsh erected a gristmill on one
                    portion near 
                        Richmond
                    . This mill was still in operation a few years ago.
            It is also interesting to note that in 1818, January 28, the Legislature incorporated the 
                        Jeffersonville
                    -
                        Ohio
                     Canal Company. [Laws, 1817–8, Ch. 27, pp.
                    57–67.] The charter was granted because of obstructions in the Ohio
                    river near the 
                        Great Falls
                    . Right was also granted "to raise by lottery, a sum not exceeding
                    $100,000, and the money thus raised (after defraying all the necessary expenses) shall be
                    divided into two equal moieties," one moiety going to the State and by the State applied to
                    the purchasing of the stock of the company, and the other moiety going to the company toward
                    completing the canal. On January 22, 1820, the State purchased two hundred shares of the capital
                    stock of the company. [Laws, 1819–20, pp. 135–6.]
            
            The Jeffersonville and New Albany Canal Company was
                    incorporated February 8, 1836, [Laws, 1835–6, Ch. 59, pp. 24–51 with a capital
                    stock of $600,000, of $100 shares, with the purpose of "going around
                    the falls of the Ohio river in the State of Indiana."
            The Wabash and Maumee Canal Company was another mushroom
                    organization incorporated February 10, 1841, with a capital stock of $50,000, in
                    $50 shares. [Laws, 1840–1, pp. 88–90.] This was organized to
                    construct a "canal … at a point where the Maumee and Barren creeks form a marsh
                    in the county of Gibson, … thence to a point on the Wabash river at
                    or near the Crooked bayou."
            In the report of the engineer in 1835, we also find that a 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     canal had been proposed. The engineer gives the results of the surveys of the southern
                    and northern routes for the proposed canal. [Doc. Journals, Reports, 1835.]
            Again, we find that the 
                        Warren County
                     Canal Company was incorporated January 15, 1844. [Local Laws, 1843–4, Ch.
                    16, pp. 31–35.] This company was given power to unite the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal with the Wabash river in 
                        Warren county
                    . Nothing was ever accomplished.? Ve find also that in 1828 the Legislature passed an
                    "Act to establish a canal to connect the navigable waters of the Wabash
                    river with the navigable waters of the Miami of Lake Erie."
                    [Laws, 1827–8, Ch. 7, pp. 10–12.]
            Several minor companies tried to establish local canal propositions, but they were all doomed to a
                    premature death and are not worthy of mention. These many companies were never of any real import to
                    the public weal.
            The State debt had increased to enormous amounts, and in 1845 the State was confronted by two
                    problems of vast and farreaching importance,—that of completing the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, and that of managing the State debt. [J. H. U.
                    Series, No. 21, p. 63.] These two problems were so interconnected that they needed to be settled
                    together.
            In order to protect their interests, the dissatisfied creditors in both Europe and America appointed
                    Mr. Charles Butler as their agent. He investigated the conditions and framed a plan whereby the
                    bondholders might realize on their investments. "Pay us 
                    by your State tax and otherwise a portion of the interest on your public debt, and we shall be
                    willing to look to the revenues of the canal (
                        Wabash
                     and Erie) for the balance," was his plea. [J. H. U. Series, No. 21, p. 65.]
            After the most strenuous effort on the part of 
                        Butler
                    , the Legislature finally passed the "Butler Bill," [Laws, Jan. 16,
                    18461 as it was popularly called. It was in two parts. The State agreed to pay the interest and
                    ultimately the principal of the one pare out of taxation. The creditors agreed to look to the
                    revenues of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal for the interest and principal of the other half.
                    [J. H. U. Series, No. 21, p. 71.] The canal was then turned over to a board of trustees, one of whom
                    should be chosen by the Legislature and the other two by the bondholders. The provisions of the bill
                    merely placed the canal in trust for the benefit of the bondholders and did not turn it over
                    completely to them, as has erroneously been supposed.
            Mr. Charles Butler was chosen president of the board at its first meeting in May, 1847. The canal was
                    formally turned over to the trustees July 1, 1847. [Doc. Journal, Part 2, No. 11, 1847.] In 1853 it
                    was finished to its Ohio river terminus at 
                        Evansville
                    , with a total length of 459 miles. The reports of the trustees show that the canal was
                    prosperous from 1847 to 1856, but from the latter date the tolls began to diminish. In 1852, the
                    tolls and water rents reached the high mark of $193,400.]8. [Doc. Journal, 1852.]
            In 1874 the canal was abandoned, and on February 12, 1877, the court ordered the canal to be sold in
                    order to satisfy the suit of some Indiana bondholders. Speculators purchased the right of way and
                    lands, but no attempt was made to repair and maintain the canal. [J. H. U. Series, No. 21, p. 87.]
                    The canal became disused and ruined and soon became ossified as a money-making institution.
            Many reasons have been advanced as to why the canal system failed. While local conditions entered
                    into the question; while the State attempted too many things at once and could thereby concentrate
                    her efforts on no one improvement; while the season of successful use of the canal for
                    transportation was only about  eight months of the year and
                    therefore it must lie idle the rest of the time; while the interference of storm and weather caused
                    delays of weeks at a time, thus proving a great annoyance and often a money loss; while all these
                    things tended to work against the success of the canal, yet with it all we can see that the canal
                    was but one step in the evolution of the transportation facilities of the country. It was a cog in
                    the wheel of progress.
            The canal was no longer sufficient to meet the needs of business activities. The railroad era begun
                    to dawn. The Wabash and Erie Canal was paralleled by the 
                        Wabash
                     railroad. Products could be transported cheaper, swifter, and with less likelihood of
                    delay, by the railroads than by water. Competition has ever encouraged speed, safety and cheapness
                    in transportation, and the canal era was doomed from the economic standpoint.
            As an illustration of the growth in the means of transportation, the writer was vividly impressed in
                    a recent visit to the little town of Andrews, situated midway between 
                        Huntington
                     and 
                        Wabash
                    . In his boyhood days he used to play along the old towpath bordering the half-filled
                    portions of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal which ran parallel to the Wabash
                    river. On the opposite side of the river ran the 
                        Wabash
                     railroad. On the recent trip, he reached his destination by riding on a through car of
                    the Wabash Valley Traction Company. The track of this line was built on the old
                    towpath of the canal. There lies the representation of a history itself. The river is still doing
                    business at the old stand, but is no longer used at that point for transportation in boats and
                    canoes, as was the case in the days of the pioneers. The old canal bed can still be discerned at
                    points as a memoir to the early struggle for development of the State. The railroad
                        [Wabash Valley Railroad completed to 
                        Lafayette
                    , June 20, 1856. J. H. U. Series, No. 21, p. 781 is a living monument to one of the
                    prime essentials of the nation's prosperity.
            As a final step in the present methods of easy and convenient transportation, especially in a local
                    way, the traction line is plying its business upon the crumpled ruins of the almost forgotten canal
                    beds. In this evolution, the survival of the fittest takes place as  in all other lines, and the fittest is that which meets the existing
                    needs of the country.
            Recent agitation has sprung up for a new canal system. The first annual convention of the Indiana
                    Branch of the Rivers and Harbors Congress met at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , January 21 and 22, 1908, for discussion on this project. This is a question in itself,
                    however, and, like the railroad question, cannot be treated in this paper. "There are two
                    things to be kept in mind in regard to this agitation," said Governor Marshall in an
                    interview with the writer, "and they are: (1) you must have a ditch of the proper
                    dimensions before business can be transacted, and (2) you must have the water to fill it."
                    That is the essence of the situation. In this question, the conservation of natural resources will
                    play a prominent part. It is reasonable to suppose that, with the deforestation of the State, the
                    length of seasonable navigation will be apt to be less than it was in the forties and fifties. An
                    appropriation bill in the 
                        United States
                     Congress for a canal connecting Lake Michigan and Lake
                        Erie was recently defeated, though this is the most favorable and reasonable canal
                    that Indiana could build.
            Thus we have traced the history of the canal era in the State of Indiana from its conception, through
                    its inauguration, through its many trials, failures and partial successes. We have seen the mistakes
                    that were made and the "what might have beens," and we have noticed that the
                    downfall was certain, and yet, we should not say that the canals were a complete failure. On the
                    other hand, let us rather compare them to the outgrown dress of the State's growth and
                    development.
         
         
         
            HISTORY TO ORDER.
            
               BY GEORGE S. COTTMAN.
            It is pretty well understood by those who have undertaken it that the attempt to write honest and
                    useful history on a commercial basis, as most literature is supposed to be produced, is worse than
                    discouraging. One is not even in the category with the poet and the philosopher in this respect. If
                    these rise above a certain standard they stand a chance of a recognition that means remuneration,
                    for there is really a large sprinkling of people who know good poetry and good philosophy. The
                    discrimination as to values in history is by no means so wide. Readableness is the first requisite;
                    truth is quite secondary, and hence there is slim chance for a money compensation commensurate with
                    the historian's slow, onerous toil as he burrows mole-like through documentary darkness.
                    Hence, again, it is that a large proportion of our writers of histories (meaning reputable
                    histories) are men who can "afford" to indulge their talent. Either they are
                    blessed with a competence which places them above the daily needs, or, as more frequently happens,
                    their history is, so to speak, a by-product of a paying vocation that is tributary to it, such as a
                    chair of history in a college. It is to such as these that we must, as a rule, look for our
                    painstaking, searching studies that require time with nothing to distract] and that do not demand
                    direct compensation. He who does not enjoy some such advantage, no matter what his aptitude, is, to
                    say the least, sadly handicapped and crippled. One does not have to go beyond the local field to
                    find this illustrated. The father of Indiana history, John B. Dillon, managed to produce one book
                    that will give him a place of honor in our annals so long as those annals survive. The price he paid
                    for his work makes him the most pathetic figure in our history. A gentle, kindly, lonely old man,
                    who never knew wife or child, he died in a barren room wholly alone and with every evidence that
                    worry and want, and even the need of food and medicines hastened his departure. Not Otway's
                    starving in  his garret was more tragic. William Wesley
                    Woollen's book of biographies, which has never been adequately appreciated, was a labor of
                    love that never paid the printer. If there has been one Indiana writer more than another whom nature
                    intended for a historian of the higher order, it is Jacob Piatt Dunn. His historical output for
                    years has been two or three volumes and a few intermittent short studies worked out as other
                    business permitted. In contributions of a yet more local character, an occasional reminiscent
                    pioneer, with a genuine interest in the times of which he was a part, has made some contribution of
                    real value, but these too, have all been works of love.
            And yet in spite of all this, we find that the publishing of local history goes industriously and
                    prosperously on, as any one may see if he will but consult certain fast-filling shelves in the State
                    Library, where the gilt-edged, opulent-looking tomes are being added just now with particular
                    rapidity. In short, there are at least two large publishing companies, each with an organized corps
                    of men in the field, whose business it is to see that every (paying) corner of our fair State be
                    rescued from oblivion. The State is worked by counties, and the counties selected are, naturally,
                    those richest not in historic interest but in well-to-do farmers and hustling, booming business men.
                    To the publishers the historical portion of the work is, as a rule, less than secondary, its chief
                    value being its service in giving title and pretense to the book. Occasionally there is found in a
                    county an old-time resident who is competent to write a history of it, of more or less value, but
                    where such a chronicler is not available a stock man or professional compiler is put into the field
                    who has a happy faculty for scraping together fragments and rounding them into readable form in the
                    expeditious style of one who can make good as a space-filler. A manager of one of these firms
                    informs me that he has a man of this sort who is a "cracker jack." A short sojourn
                    in any locality, be it in Indiana or 
                        Maine
                     or 
                        California
                    , is all that is necessary in order for him to write a "history." The
                    gentleman so boasting was quite innocently unconscious of any absurdity on his part. His sense of
                    fitness was much like that of the hustler engaged in the business of publishing religious books who,
                    with  an eye to something popular, called for a "bright
                    and snappy life of Christ." His idea of a history was the loose, unconfirmed local
                    traditions compiled in undigested form with a view to readableness and flattering appeals to
                    prospective purchasers of the work. Evidently he had no idea whatever of what a local history ought
                    to be, of the exact relation between its value and its truthfulness, and of the difficulties in
                    getting at the truth. He knew nothing, evidently, of the arduous search for light and sources that
                    must attend even so small a thing as the history of a county; of the ransacking of courthouses, of
                    the careful sifting of material and the trained historic judgment requisite to pierce to a historic
                    truth or probability. He knew nothing of historic values and probably cared less, for they were not
                    in his line, which was to publish a book for money. I am not blaming him any more than I would blame
                    that other man for wanting the "snappy life," and I only cite him to illustrate
                    how difficult it is for poor Clio to come unto her own, and what ignominy she has to suffer.
            But, as said above, these histories are but a secondary part of the work that are issued in their
                    name. A history of a locality, no matter what its quality, commands more interest than a mere book
                    of indiscriminate biographies, but the biographies are, from the publishers' viewpoint, the
                    all-important part of the work and the history merely a floater. The foundation of the whole
                    publishing scheme is a certain pitiful human vanity out of which the shrewd publisher makes capital.
                    The select four hundred of his grouping are those who, for the sake of a page or so about
                    themselves, will subscribe for the work at a figure ranging, I am informed, from ten to twenty
                    dollars. How adequately a community is represented by a discrimination so determined may be
                    imagined. On the theory that every man is more or less a human document, even this kind of
                    biography, however, might be of value if it were done with an honest regard for truth, but our
                    astute publisher doubtless knows better than to invalidate his business by harboring senseless
                    ideals. He is skilled psychologist enough to know that what his patrons hunger and thirst for first
                    of all is something flattering—something that will hypnotize a man into the belief that
                    he is in the public eye, that will make him  feel good while he
                    is alive and look well after he is dead. The corps of workers is trained accordingly. The man who
                    does the interviewing collects from the subject all the nice things that he can and the man who
                    writes the "biography" from these works in the "taffy" with the
                    touch of an artist. The direct, dignified style that obtains in a high class biographical work would
                    not be tolerated for a moment. Stock virtues and honors are tacked onto tlie subject wherever
                    possible. He must by all means be a "prominent citizen," and the merits
                    monotonously attributed to him are such as folks on a certain plane think everybody ought to have.
            Lest, however, a continuance of the subject should lead me into crotchets, it may be as well abruptly
                    to discontinue it. After all, there is no remedy to be suggested, and it may be that after a fashion
                    the commercial history publisher is doing a sort of service. I only wished to call attention to
                    history "as she is wrote."
         
         
         
            "OLD TIPPECANOE"
            
               BY W. H. MYERS.
            ON last Decoration Day, when the whole country was paying its homage to the dead heroes, I visited
                    the tomb of General William Henry Harrison, at 
                  North
                        Bend, Ohio
               , and was grieved at
                    the lack of attention this great man received.
            Here was the grave of the ninth President of the 
                        United States
                     —the great warrior who whipped that cunning Indian leader, Tecumseh, at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and forever broke up the Indian depredations in this territory.
            There were no flowers, not even a flag, until the writer placed a small one in a crevice of his
                    old-fashioned brick vault.
            It is a shame that this once beautiful spot should be so sadly neglected and forgotten.
            The old vault is fast falling into decay. It is overgrown with rank weeds, that are not even cut.
                    Surely such is not a fitting resting place for a President of the Vnited States—a great
                    Indian fighter—a governor of the great Northwest Territory—the man who made it
                    possible for the white settlers to remain in this territory.
            This tomb is located on a commanding knoll at 
                  North
                        Bend, Ohio
               ,-in full view of the
                    site of his famous old "Log Cabin" residence. It is an ideal place for a
                    magnificent monument that would commemorate this great man, but here it is practically neglected and
                    uncared for, seemingly forgotten.
            Unless you were acquainted, you would not know who rested therein. There is not a single mark on the
                    tomb so to indicate.
            As a boy I always had a great deal of admiration for "
                        Old Tippecanoe
                    ," and how my boyish heart would swell with pride when the steamboats on the
                        Ohio river would salute as they passed by. It has always been my wish and
                    desire to see his burial place surmounted by a suitable monument, but it would appear that the
                    country has entirely forgotten him.
            Is is time that the people of the 
                        United States
                     be advised of this  state of affairs and brought to
                    a proper realization of the debt they owe General Harrison, particularly the people of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    .
            This historical spot should be preserved. Many others with not half the wealth of history have been
                    taken in hand by the government and societies, but this one remains unnoticed.
            Close by this tomb was established the first settlement between the Miami
                    rivers, in the great 
                        Symmes Purchase
                    . 
                        Symmes City
                     was founded in 1788 by Judge John Cleves Symmes, who purchased the territory between
                    the two Miami rivers.
            Just to the west is that famous old landmark, Old Fort Hill, with its ancient
                    fortifications, erected long before the Indian, at the mouth of the Great
                    Miami.
            Just to the east, along Indian Creek, are the ruins of the first grist mill erected in this
                    territory.
            Along the brows of the adjacent hills are the remains of the immense apple and peach orchards set out
                    by General Harrison.
            This, the scene of many a bitter battle between the white settlers and the wily red man, seems to
                    have been forgotten entirely; all over the country we see historic spots made into parks, yet this
                    passes neglected.
            The commanding site of this old tomb could not be better adapted for a fitting tribute to the memory
                    of "
                        Old Tippecanoe
                    ." It is a beautiful knoll, were it put in shape, with the broad Ohio
                        river at the foot. Here the river makes a grand sweep to the south. Standing on this
                    knoll, you can see up this beautiful valley for five miles, and down the river for two miles. It is
                    one of the most picturesque spots I have ever had the pleasure of viewing. It is within easy
                    distance of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and can be reached by electric trolley and two railroads. It would be an ideal place
                    for a national park.
            President Harrison rests in a common brick vault with a rusty iron door, with several members of his
                    family, one of them being John Scott Harrison, his son, the father of Benjamin Harrison, President
                    of the 
                        United States
                    , but there is not a single thing to inform the public that he lies within.
            Near by, in the "Old Congress Green," lie the remains of Judge  John Cleves Symmes and other members of President Harrison's
                    family.
            To the east stood the famous "Log Cabin" of General Harrison. Some of the old
                    orchard trees are still standing, and the writer picked a green pear from one of them recently. To
                    the north, in the present limits of the village of Cleves, are the remains of the mansion of Judge
                    Symmes, facing the Great Miami river.
            General Harrison stood high in the esteem of his countrymen. The Legislature of 
                        Kentucky
                    , after the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , passed the following resolution:
            "Resolved, That Governor Harrison had behaved like a hero, a patriot and general, and that
                    for his cool, deliberate, skillful and gallant conduct in the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , he well deserves the thanks of the nation."
            General Harrison was distinguished by a generosity and liberal feeling. With ample opportunity for
                    amassing immense wealth, he disdained to use his public situations for private emolument. He was too
                    rigidly honest to permit himself to engage in speculation, and his chivalry was too sensitive to
                    permit him to use the time belonging to his country for private benefit. After nearly fifty
                    years' devotion to his duties, for the good of his country, he left at his death but little
                    more to his family than the inheritance of an unsullied reputation.
            Why then should not the people of this great and glorious nation, for whom he devoted his life,
                    remember him in a fitting manner? It has built magnificent monuments to less deserving.
         
         
         
            AN IMPORTANT FUGITIVE SLAVE CASE
            AN interesting pamphlet has recently been secured by the State Library, entitled, "The South
                    Bend Fugitive Slave Case, involving the Right to a Writ of Habeas Corpus," published at 
                        New York
                    , and "For sale at the Anti-Slavery Office, 48 Beekman St.," dated
                    1851. The immediate occasion of the pamphlet was a suit by George Norris, of 
                  Boone county, Kentucky
               , against Leander B. Newton and others, of 
                        South Bend
                    , Indiana. From the pamphlet it appears that George Norris claimed to have been the
                    owner of a negro, David Povrrell, and his wife, Lucy, and their children. According to his story,
                    these negroes, who had been allowed large freedom of movement, disappeared on October 9, 1847. After
                    searching for them in various places in Indiana, Norris claimed to have discovered them living in a
                    negro settlement in 
                        Michigan
                    . Norris and his associates surprised the family in the absence of the man and took the
                    woman and three sons and drove off with them. At South Bend the party was overtaken by pursuers, who
                    secured and served a writ. In the trial before the county court by which the writ was issued, the
                    negroes were ordered released. Meanwhile, however, Norris had secured a writ from the 
                        United States
                     court and held the negroes prisoners by force and display of weapons until they were
                    taken into custody. Action was then brought against Norris for this display of arms and threats
                    (this action was afterward dismissed) and a writ of habeas corpus for the release of the negroes
                    secured, and the next court day, Norris failing to appear, the local court ordered the negroes
                    released, which was done in the presence of all the other interested parties.
            Norris later (December 21, 1849) brought suit in the 
                        United States
                     Circuit Court, District of Indiana, against Leander B. Newton and others, of 
                        South Bend
                    , these parties being those involved in the release of the negroes on writ of habeas
                    corpus, to recover damages for the loss of the negroes. The case was tried before Judge McLean in
                    May, 1850, and, in accordance with the instructions of the judge, the jury returned a verdict of
                    $2,856  damages against the defendants. The pamphlet
                    utters a vigorous protest against this decision and the principles involved in it. Added interest is
                    given the case by the fact that it occurred during the agitation and discussion that led up to the
                    Compromise of 1850, one of the more important items of which was the Fugitive Slave law, compelling
                    the Federal officials to take charge of the return of fugitive negroes and putting the whole matter
                    almost entirely into the hands of the Federal courts.
         
         
         
            THE INDIANA CENTENNIAL LIBFURY AND MUSEUM BUILDING: TWO DOCUMENTS.
            EDWARD BARRETT.
            1. The statement of the case. A circular issued by the State Librarian and the Indiana Historical
                    Society.
            A PLEA FOR AN INDIANA STATE LIBRARY AND MUSEUM BUILDING AS A PERMANENT MEMORIAL FOR THE
                    CENTENNIAL OF INDIANA'S STATEHOOD –1816–1916. WHY NOT?
            Indiana ought to celebrate the centennial of her admission as a State in 1916. Everybody admits that,
                    but how? Expositions are overdone, and nearly every recent one has been a costly failure. Moreover,
                    they are temporary only—a sensation for a few weeks, and then only a memory. Why not
                    celebrate by a permanent memorial monument of some kind?
            The State Capitol is badly overcrowded by its permanent occupants. The Legislature is hindered in its
                    work by want of committee rooms. This trouble increases yearly as the State grows. Why not make the
                    centennial memorial monument a building that n-ill relieve the pressure on the Capitol?
            The tn-o things in the State Capitol most easily removed, and least connected n-ith the business
                    offices, are the State Library and the State Museum. They occupy more room than any other
                    departments, and yet they are so crowded that they have been forced to refuse donations. They are
                    devoted to the preservation of the history of the State—one its written history, the
                    other its battle-flags. historical relics of war and peace, etc. Why not make the Centennial
                    Nemorial Building a place for these two, and build up a great free historical museum for the people
                    of the future?
            By adopting this plan we shall always have something to show for our money, instead of having a
                    legacy of debt to wrangle over, as has been the case with most recent expositions. We will have
                    something that will be a perpetual source of pleasure and profitable information to all visitors to
                    the State's capital. Can  you think of anything that
                    would be more lastingly popular? Then why not?
            RESOLUTIONS OF THE INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
            Whereas, There is a general feeling of the citizens of the State that Indiana should appropriately
                    celebrate the centennial anniversary of her admission to the Union, and the great significance of
                    this event is historical; and
            Whereas, The State's chief agencies for the preservation of her history are the State
                    Library, in which are preserved the printed and written records of her history, and the State
                    Museum, in which are preserved the battle-flags and other mementoes of the deeds of her people in
                    war and peace, the specimens of her native flora and fauna, and other historic material of great
                    interest to the people of the State; and
            Whereas, In the overcrowded condition of the State Capitol both of these institutions are impeded in
                    their proper work, and in some cases have been obliged to refuse donations, on account of lack of
                    space for their care, of material that is liable to be lost for lack of place of keeping;
            Resolved, That the General Assembly be requested to prepare for such centennial celebration by
                    provision at its coming session for an adequate permanent building, on grounds adjacent to the State
                    Capitol, for the housing of the State Library and State Museum, and other agencies devoted to the
                    preservation of historical material.
            Resolved, further, That all citizens of the State who believe that Indiana has a history in which her
                    people may take a just pride and who feel that it should be carefully preserved and handed down to
                    all future generations, be requested to use their influence now to have such preparation made that
                    said proposed Centennial Memorial Building may be erected and prepared for dedication by December
                    11, 1916.
            THE STATE GEOLOGIST.
            Indiana is replete with natural resources such as attract the man with limited capital. Indiana has
                    invited investment in  brick, tile, stone, cement, coal and
                    pottery plants, all drawing their raw materials from our State's inexhaustible store, and,
                    with few exceptions, these investments have given good returns.
            The advertising encouragement and impetus given these investments are largely the work of the
                    Department of Geology and Satural Resources of the State of Indiana. Along with the economic phase
                    of the work, a proper balance has been maintained with the scientific or scholastic demands of the
                    State. Extensive surveys of the natural history of the State—the fauna and
                    flora—have been maintained, and there are now in progress exhaustive surveys of soils and
                    water-power sites of the State, which will be completed in the next two to four years.
            The soil survey will be of greatest importance to the farming interests of the State, and the
                    water-power problem, when completed, will be of inestimable value to the people generally.
            With all of this, the Department of Geology, and the State Museum—the people's
                    greatest advertising mediums for its natural resources—are inadequately supplied with
                    room for the proper conduct of its work. Hundreds and thousands of dollars' worth of maps,
                    charts, plates, records and specimens, that should be properly displayed or made a part of the
                    State's permanent history, are now stored in the basement of the State House for want of
                    room and space where people can see and examine them.
            For the above reasons and many others we could give, there is an imperative necessity for a suitable
                    building adjacent to the State House for the housing of the Department of Geology and the State
                    Librarv. From an economic standpoint, if from no other, the State can well afford to invest in
                    additional room for these departments, and we urge the present Legislature to appropriate the means
                    to bring this about.
            EDWARD BARRETT.
            WAYNE COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY.M
            Resolved, That the ll'ayne County Historical Society heartily concurs in the movement for
                    the erection at 
                        Indianapolis
                     of a suitable building, at the State's expense, for the accommodation of the
                    State Library, and the the several educational, historical and scientific assGciations of the State;
                    and
            
            That we deem the time opportune and the need urgent enough to demand its immediate and careful
                    consideration by the General Assembly.
            INDIANA UNIVERSITY.
            The History Club of Indiana University passed the following resolution:
            As an appropriate method of celebrating the one hundredth anniversary of Indiana's admission
                    to the Union, a Memorial Building should be erected by the State in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which will serve as the Library Building and Historical Museum, for the sake of
                    preserving all the documents, papers and materials relating to the history of Indiana that may come
                    into the possession of the State. Such a building, with its library equipment, would be a valuable
                    educational center and a resort for students engaged in research.
            Similar resolutions have been passed by the Indiana Library Trustees' Association, Indiana
                    State Federation of Women's Clubs, Indiana Library Association, Indiana State Board of
                    Education, and many others of the historical and scientific societies of the State.
            Indiana is behind other States in the preservation of its history and in the care of its valuable
                    relics and specimens of its natural resources. Other progressive States have already erected
                    buildings for this purpose. 
                        Wisconsin
                     has spent more than a million dollars on its State Historical Library Building; 
                        Connecticut
                     has a new State Library Building; the 
                        New York State
                     Library and Educational Departments will soon move into a $4,000,000
                    building; 
                  Kansas, Nebraska
                and 
                        Iowa
                     have either finished or are now finishing similar structures; the Pennsylvania State
                    Library and Museum now have possession of the former State Capitol. The time is opportune for
                    Indiana to provide for its Library and Museum. To do this by 1916, the present Legislature must take
                    action.
            DEMARCHUS C. BROWN, State Librarian.
            C. B. COLEMAN, J. P. DUNN, C. W. MOOAS
                    Committee of the Indiana Historical Society.
            
            2. The law providing for the first step toward the building.
            SENATE BILL No. 225.
            A Bill for an Act Relating to the Celebration of the One-Hundredth Anniversary of the Admission of
                    the State of Indiana into the Union by the Construction of a State Educational Building.
            [Read the third time in the Senate and passed, February 7, 1911; ayes 37, noes 6. Passed with
                    amendments in the House, passed as amended in the Senate, and signed by the Governor on March 1,
                    1911.]
            Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana. That there is hereby
                    created a commission composed of five members as follows:
            One holdover Senator appointed by the Lieutenant-Governor; one Representative appointed by the
                    Speaker; the State Librarian, and two members appointed by the Governor. This commission shall be
                    known as the Indiana Centennial Commission.
            The members of the commission shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed their necessary
                    expenses while engaged in the business of the commission.
            Any vacancy occurring in the commission shall be filled by appointment by the Governor, and any
                    member may be removed by the Governor for cause.
            Sec. 2. Within sixty days after this act takes effect, the commission shall meet, on the call of the
                    Gorernor, at the State Capitol, and shall organize by electing a chairman and a secretary from among
                    their number.
            Sec. 3. It shall be the duty of the commission to formulate plans for the celebration of the
                    centennial of the admission of Indiana into the Union by the erection of a State building and its
                    dedication in 1916, to be known as the Indiana Educational Ruilding. The plan of such building shall
                    provide for the proper housing of the State Library and Museum, Public Library Commission and the
                    educational and scientific offices of the State.
            Sec. 4. The commission shall have the power to determine upon a site for such building; to take
                    ogions upon the property necessary for the location of the building, and for the necessary  grounds surrounding such building, and bind the State for the
                    payment of such options.
            Sec. 5. The commission shall invite the competition of architects in the formulation of plans, and
                    shall for that purpose advertise the fact that the commission is considering plans for a State
                    Educational Building, in at least two newspapers of general circulation, for a period of two weeks,
                    specifying the maximum cost of such building. The commission is empowered to employ such clerical
                    assistants as may be necessary.
            Sec. 6. The commission shall report to the General Assembly at its session in 1913, setting forth in
                    detail the location of the proposed building and the cost of the grounds for such location, and the
                    plans which may have been submitted for such building and the approximate cost thereof, together
                    with recommendations as to the choice of the plans for such building, the ways and means for its
                    construction, and such other matter as may aid the General Assembly in making the necessary
                    appropriations and providing for the construction thereof by the commission, and its dedication in
                    1916 on the occasion of the centennial of the admission of Indiana into the Union.
            See. 7. When the plans shall have been approved by the General Assembly and the necessary
                    appropriations therefor have been made, the commission shall proceed to purchase the necessary
                    grounds and to construct such building in such a manner and under such conditions as may be
                    prescribed by the General Assembly.
            Sec. 8. Said commission shall consult with the board of park commissioners of the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and the board of commissioners of the county of 
                        Marion
                    , as to the purchase by the State of Indiana, the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the county of 
                        Marion
                     of any real estate for such educational building and grounds, and accept, subject to
                    the approval of the next General Assembly of the State, tentative proposals as to the proportional
                    share of the cost of such property and the ownership thereof when so purchased, and shall report the
                    same to the next General Assembly for its ratification or rejection.
            Sec. 9. The sum of $1,000, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated
                    to carry out the provisions of this act.
         
         
         
            JUDGE H. C. DUNCAN.
            THE papers of the State announced the sudden death of Judge H. C. Duncan at his home in 
                        Bloomington
                    , on January 30. Judge Duncan was one of the most widely known and respected citizens of 
                        Monroe County
                    , and probably engaged longer in the practice of law there than any one else in the
                    county. He has long been active in all public interests. He served in the army during the Civil War
                    and has been at the head of the local interests of the Grand Army of the Republic.
            In historical circles, Judge Duncan is known as one of the leaders in the 
                        Monroe County
                     Historical Society. He contributed an article upon Austin Seward to the September,
                    1908, number (1701 IV, Xo. 3) of this magazine, and a year later an article of his upon Judge James
                    Hughes (Vol. V, No. 3) was published. In both of these papers Judge Duncan showed a knowledge of the
                    local history of the State and a sympathetic understanding of a type of life that is passing away
                    among us, together with a literary skill that made him an honored member of the guild of historians.
                    His death leaves us the poorer in the ability to recall and to describe the earlier life of our
                    country.
         
         
         
            BENJAMIN S. PARKER
            THE death of Benjamin S. Parker at his home in 
                        Newcastle
                     on the 14th of March has taken from us one of the most honored contributors of this
                    magazine. Mr. Parker has been more widely known for his poetry than for his interest in historical
                    matter, but there are few men in the State who have had a deeper interest in our local history or
                    have done more to advance its study and preservation. He himself has written quite a little on this
                    theme. His articles upon Pioneer Life in each of the four numbers of the Indiana Quarterly Magazine
                    of History of Vol. III, 1907, and his sketches of Pioneer Features in the first number of Vol. IV,
                    1908, will be recalled by all our readers for their lively description of Central Indiana more than
                    a half century ago. Mr. Parker was born in 
                        Henry county
                    , February 10, 1833, and spent most of his life there. He retained a vivid recollection
                    of manners and customs as well as of people. He was vitally interested in everything about him. He
                    never courted popularity or fame, but always showed the most unaffected sympathy with the life about
                    him. He lived in close touch with people, with nature, with places. It was this that made his
                    poetry, though perhaps not great, absolutely genuine and well worth reading. It was this same
                    quality that made him in taste and in influence an historian.
            Mr. Parker was one of the promoters of the 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society, our most active county historical organization. The fine building
                    which that society now occupies, its valuable collection of early agricultural and domestic
                    implements, of books, and of other relics, are due probably as much as to his work as to that of any
                    other man. He gave much of his time to these matters. One of the last meetings he attended was the
                    conference of State and local historical societies held in connection with the gathering of the
                    American Historical Society at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the Christmas holidays this winter. Though even then in declining health, he
                    evinced the liveliest interest in the work of his own society and in the meeting of the national
                    association. A few  weeks after his return home he became
                    seriously ill and his death followed a lingering sickness of nearly two months. In the interest
                    which he has stimulated in local history no less than in his writings, both poetry and prose, he has
                    left an enduring legacy.
            It is not necessary here to give full account of his long and useful life nor of his many activities.
                    That has been and will be done elsewhere. But a short sketch may not be out of place. His early life
                    was spent on a 
                        Henry county
                     farm. Shortly after the Civil War he went into business at 
                        Lewisville
                    . He taught school for some time in 
                        Henry
                     and 
                        Rush counties
                    , speaking frequently at educational, literary and religious gatherings. He studied law
                    at one time but never practiced at the bar. He wrote a good deal for various newspapers, and from
                    1875 to 1882 was editor of the Mercury at 
                        Newcastle
                    . He published several small collections of poetry at different times, his first volume,
                    "The Lesson, and Other Poems," appearing in 1871, and his last,
                    "Noontide," in 1905. Perhaps his best known poem was the "Cabin in the
                    Clearing." Some of his work was included in Coggshell's "Poets and Poetry
                    of the West" (1860.) He was the second president of the one-time celebrated Western
                    Association of Writers.
            In 1880, Mr. Parker was a Republican elector on the national election, and cast the official vote of
                    his district for Garfield and Arthur. In 1882, he was appointed consul to 
                  Sherbrooke, Canada
               , and
                    remained in office during the administration of Arthur. In 1900, he represented 
                        Henry county
                     in the Indiana House of Representatives.
         
         
         
            INDEX OF HISTORICAL ARTICLES IN INDIANA NEWSPAPERS.
            DECEMBER, 19 10-FEBRUARY, 1911
            
               PREPARED BY FLORENCE VENN, Rejerence Librarian, Indiana State Library.
            Abbreviations: Ind., 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; mag. sec., magazine section; p., page; c., column.
            
               Birner, John. Death of 
                            St. Joseph county
                         pioneer. 
                            South Bend Tribune
                        , Jan. 23, 1911, p. 4, c. 3.
               Black Hawk war. Dr. Wishard recalls the assembling of militia at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind. News, Feb. 3, 1911, p. 9, c. 5.
               Boundaries. Indiana-
                            Kentucky
                         boundary affected by slavery question. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, Feb. 5, 1911, p. 5, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Chickamauga
                        , Battle of. Some stories of the 84th infantry and 5th battery at 
                            Chickamauga
                        . Ind. News, Jan. 27, 1911, p. 8, c. 3.
               Coffin, Rhoda. M. Reminiscences of early 
                            Wayne county
                        . 
                            Richmond
                         Item, Feb. 10, 1911, p. 4, c. 2.
               Confederate soldiers. Government proposes to erect bronze tablet to unidentified dead. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, Dec. 14, 1910, p. 5, c. 4.
               Constitution. Changed conditions since forming of constitution of 1851. 
                            South Rend Tribune
                        , Feb. 20, 1911, p. 3, c. 1.
               Curry, William W. Sketch of life. Richmond Palladium, Feb. 16, 1911, p. 3, c. 1.
               Electric railways. First electric street-car line run in 
                     South Bend, South Bend
                        Tribune
                  , Feb. 11, 1911, p. 20, c. 1. Ind. News, Feb. 11, 1911, p. 13,
                        c. 4.
               
                  
                            Evansville
                        . Progress in the past decade. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, Jan. 1, 1911, p. 45, c. 4.
               — History of interurbans in 
                            Evansville
                        . 
                            Evansville
                         Journal-News, Jan. 29, 1911. Interurban and manufacturers section, p. 1.
               Gas. Early gas fields and franchises in 
                            Delaware county
                        . Muncie Press, Jan. 26, 1911, p. 4, c. 6.
               
               Governors. Dr. Wishard describes some that he has seen. Ind. News, Feb. 3, 1911, p. 9, c. 5.
               Hackleman, Pleasant A. A forgotten hero. Rluncie Star, Jan. 2, 1911, p. 4, c. 5.
               Indiana. Pioneer drummer tells of runs made in early days. Ind. News, Dec. 29, 1910, p. 3, c.
                        6. 
                            Lafayette
                         Courier, Jan. 4, 1911, p. 8, c. 2.
               — Odd items of Indiana history found in old newspapers. Ind. News, Feb. 1, 1911, p.
                        4, c. 6. 
                            Evansville
                         Journal News, Feb. 4, 1911, p. 5, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        . Death of only surviving first settlers. Ind. Star, Feb. 17, 1911, p. 5, c. 5.
               Lincoln, Abraham. Isaac Jenkinson's recollections of him. Richmond Palladium, Feb.
                        14, 1911, p. 1, c. 1. 
                            Richmond
                         Item, Feb. 14, 1911, p. 1, c. 7.
               — Visit to 
                            Lafayette
                         in 1841. 
                            Lafayette
                         Courier, Feb. 11, 1911, p. 1, c. 4.
               — Reminiscences. Ind. Star, Feb. 12, 1911, p. 14, c. 2. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Feb. 11, 1911, p. 4, c. 3.
               — Visits to 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Ind. Star, Feb. 12, 1911, mag. sec. p. 1. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, Feb. 12, 1911, mag. sec. p. 1. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Feb. 12, 1911, sec. 2, p. 1.
               McCormick, Amos D. Death of only surviving first settler of 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Ind. Star, Feb. 17, 1911, p. 5, c. 5.
               — Story of his trip to 
                            Indianapolis
                         in 1820. Ind. News, Feb. 17, 1911, p. 18, c. 4.
               Miami Indians. Will press old land claims. 
                            Ft. Wayne
                         Journal-Gazette, Dec. 27, 1910, p. 3, c. 5. Ind. Kews, Dec. 24, 1910, p. 3, c. 3.
               Mother Theodore. May be first North American saint. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, Dec. 11, 1910, mag. sec, p. 1. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Dec, 11, 1910, sec. 2, p. 1. Ind. Star, Dec. 11, 1910, mag. sec. p. 1.
               Newspapers. Early newspapers of 
                            Delaware county
                        . Muncie Press, Dec. 8, 1910, p. 4, c. 6.
               — 
                            Delaware county
                         times of November 26, 1868. Muncie Press, Feb. 16, 1911, p. 6, c. 6.
               
               Parrett, John W. Death of aged pioneer minister. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, Jan. 11, 1911, p. 10, c. 2.
               Prohibition. Indiana's only state-wide prohibition law recalled by Dr. Spottswood.
                        Ind. News, Feb. 27, 1911, p. 10, c. 6.
               Regimental histories. Stories of the 84th at 
                            Chickamauga
                        , Ind. News, Jan. 27, 1911, p. 8, c. 3.
               Rerick, J. H. Death of prominent 
                            South Bend
                         physician. 
                            South Bend Tribune
                        , Jan. 23, 1911, p. 1, c. 6.
               Schools. Vote for free schools in 1848 and 1849. Ind. News, Dec. 8, 1910, p. 6, c. 2.
               Seal. Buffalo on seal was true to Indian life. Ind. Star, Dec. 11, 1911, mag. sec. p. 6.
               Spottswood, Edward. Reminiscences of. Ind. News, Feb. 27, 1911, p. 10, c. 6.
               
                  Stone River, Battle of. Reunion of survivors. Ind. News, Jan. 2, 1911, p.
                        24, c. 2.
               Underground railroad. Incident at an Indiana station. Ind. News, Feb. 18, 1911, p. 19, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Vanderburgh county
                        , Green River Island may be ceded by 
                            Kentucky
                        . 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, Feb. 5, 1911, p. 5, c. 1.
               Vernon. History and description. Ind. News, Feb. 11, 1911, p. 15.
               
                  
                            Wabash
                         and Erie Canal. Old bond comes to light. Ind. News, Jan. 25,
                        1911, p. 3, c. 7.
               — Owner seeks a buyer. Ind. Star, Feb. 24, 1911, p. 12, c. 5.
               
                  
                            Wayne county
                        . First schoolhouse. 
                            Richmond
                         Item, Dec. 17, 1910, p. 7, c. 3.
               — Rhoda Coffin's reminiscences. 
                            Richmond
                         Item, Feb. 10, 1911, p. 4, c. 2.
               Woods, W. J. Old drummer tells of pioneer travels. 
                            Lafayette
                         Courier, Jan. 4, 1911, p. 8, c. 2. Ind. News, Dec. 29, 1910, p. 3, c. 6.
            
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL.
            The State of Indiana has taken the first step toward the erection of a suitable State Library and
                    Museum building by providing for a commission to select a site, secure options and adopt plans, and
                    by providing $1,000 for the necessary expenses of the commission. The need of this and
                    the law recently passed are shown on another page of this number. It is gratifying that the law has
                    been passed and that there was so little opposition to it. Many will perhaps feel that the proposed
                    building is overloaded, that the educational and scientific offices of the State should be retained
                    in the Capitol, where other administrative offices are housed, and that the centennial building
                    should be specifically a library and museum. This, however, is a matter that will doubtless be
                    worked out satisfactorily when plans are more fully developed.
            It is to be hoped that the commission will build its plans for the future, and on a large scale.
                    While all citizens would deplore any extravagance, we should recognize that the State Library and
                    the State Museum should be provided with a building of a monumental design suitable to the
                    celebration of a century of statehood, and above all that these are growing institutions and that
                    ample space must be provided if they are not to be again hampered and crowded into comparative
                    uselessness. Other States have provided funds of a million dollars and more. We should not be
                    niggardly nor spoil the opportunity of the future by a temporary and false economy. If we can not
                    with some of our neighbors have a million dollar building, it is surely not unreasonable to expect a
                    future expenditure for the building itself of at least half of that amount.
         
         
         
            NOTES.
            The committee of women in charge of the Robert Dale Owen memorial has finished its work and recently
                    presented to the State of Indiana a beautiful bust of Mr. Owen, well mounted upon a tall granite
                    pedestal. The memorial stands at the south entrance of the State Capitol, facing the building. It is
                    altogether a fitting tribute to a man who not only championed the rights of women and did most
                    effective work to secure these rights in the second constitutional convention, but who was one of
                    the ablest men and one of the greatest the history of Indiana can show.
            The Indiana Historical Society is in receipt of an important request for information about one Ephram
                    Johnson and family, who lived in or near the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1862. Any one possessing information should communicate with this magazine.
            Mrs. Harriet Retz, teacher of history in the Manual Training High School of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , has been compelled by illness temporarily to relinquish her work. Her place is being
                    taken by Mrs. Hope Whitcomb Graham, of 
                        Butler
                     College. JIrs. Retz is expected to resume her work before the end of the present school
                    year.
            The Legislature having provided the necessary funds, the work of the Department of Archives of the
                    State Library will be resumed. Professor Harlow Lindley will be at the head of the department as
                    formerly.
            Indiana University has established a graduate fellowship in history, the holder of which is to devote
                    himself between now and 1916, under the direction of Prof. James A. Woodburn, to the study of
                    Indiana history, with a view to the production of an historical contribution to the centennial of
                    the admission of Indiana to the Union. This action marks another step in the direction of the
                    development of graduate work at Indiana Vniversity, which is a matter of congratulation for all the
                    educational interests of the State. It is also another witness of the service of the University to
                    the public interests of Indiana. If the editor is not  mistaken
                    in his information, it was Professor Woodburn who first suggested, some years ago, that the
                    centennial should be celebrated by the erection of a centennial library and museum building, a
                    project which now bids fair to be realized within the next four years.
         
         
            REVIEWS OF BOOKS.
            THE PEACE OF MAD ANTHONY.
            [Frazer E. Wilson. 122 pp. Illustrated. Published by the author at 
                  Greenville, Ohio
               , 1909.]
            This book is a revision of the author's earlier "Treaty of 
                        Greenville
                    ," and consists essentially of papers appearing in the 
                        Ohio State
                     Archaeological and Historical Society's publications, and in the Ohio
                    Magazine. It gives a detailed, readable and accurate zccount of the Indian troubles in the
                    northwest, culminating in 
                        Wayne
                    's victorious campaign, and of the Treaty of 
                        Greenville
                     itself. The illustrations of monuments, views and medals, and the maps, add to the
                    interest and clearness of the narrative.
         
         
            
               
                        DELAWARE COUNTY
                    .
            [G. W. H. Kemper, M. D., editor. 2 vols. Vol. I, 542 pp. Illustrated. 1908. Lewis Publishing Company, 
                        Chicago
                    . Sold by subscription alone.]
            Another of the county histories frequently noticed in this magazine, the manufacture of which is
                    described at length in this number. Few people get to read them except the subscribers, and as they
                    read only their own autobiographical sketches, little historical value is attached to them.
         
      
      
         
      
   
