
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 77, Issue 1, pages 1-108. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:77+issue:1+year:1981&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Tracing the Origins of a Midwestern Culture: The Case of Central Indiana
            
                    James M. Bergquist
                    ∗
                
            One of the fascinations that the American frontier has had for historians is that its history
                    reflects the full development of new societies and their cultures within a remarkably short span of
                    time. Even a place as seemingly prosaic as the agricultural frontier of the early Midwest offers
                    inviting examples to demonstrate the process of cultural development. In a classic discussion of the
                    subject, Frederick Jackson Turner used the metaphor of mingling fluids to describe the diverse
                    elements that made up the culture of the Midwest. "Into this province," he wrote,
                    "came tides of settlement that, in rapidity of flow and in variety of sources, brought a
                    new American society into existence."1 Turner's examination of
                    the process emphasized the impact of the newness and social emptiness of the frontier. Although
                    acknowledging that the freshness of the society gave unusual opportunities for change and
                    innovation, later historians—influenced by more recent theories of social
                    science—have placed more stress upon the cultural traditions carried to the frontier by
                    its varied settlers.2
            
            
               
                  ∗ James M. Bergquist is associate professor of history,
                        Villanova University, Villanova, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        . The writer is indebted to the National Endowment for the Humanities for two grants
                        which furthered this research: a research grant in the summer of 1967 to study the population
                        development of the early Midwest and a grant in 1977 to attend a summer seminar in American
                        dialects at the University of 
                            Chicago
                         under Professor Raven I. McDavid, Jr. The advice and assistance of Professor
                        McDavid, director of the Linguistic Atlas of the North Central States, is also gratefully
                        acknowledged.
               
                  1 Frederick Jackson Turner, The 
                                United States
                            , 1830–1850: The Nation and Its Sections (
                            New York
                        , 1935), 258.
               
                  2 Robert F. Berkhofer, "Space, Time, Culture and the New
                        Frontier," Agricultural History, XXXVIII (January, 1964),
                        21–30. The following essay is not intended as a commentary on Turner or as an attempt
                        to resolve the question of "heredity vs. environment" on the frontier. The
                        nature of the evidence used,
            
            
            It is not difficult to identify the various sources from which the population and the culture of the
                    early Midwest were drawn, but to do so does not necessarily account for the product that resulted.
                    The question remains as to why one cultural trait brought into the wilderness survived and another
                    did not.3 Some scholars have described the process as one of conflict and
                    competition between cultures, but the cultural scene that resulted is much too complex for such
                        oversimplification.4 Accommodation as well as conflict seems to have played
                    a role.
            An examination of the settlement patterns of early-nineteenth-century Indiana places the problem of
                    cultural development in the Midwest in a more specific context. Moving northward from below the
                        Ohio River and from beyond the 
                        Cumberland Gap
                    , settlers from 
                        Kentucky
                     and the upland South established themselves along the 
                        Ohio
                     and its tributaries about the turn of the nineteenth century. Before the coming of the
                    railroad, access to water transportation was of great importance to these settlers, and they
                    followed the valleys of the 
                        Ohio
                    's tributaries rather far northward into the Hoosier state—farther
                    northward perhaps than in either 
                        Ohio
                     or 
                        Illinois
                    . Because so much of the state was thus preempted by southerners, fewer migrants from
                    the Middle and New 
                        England
                     states moved directly to Indiana during the period from 1800 to 1840, when much of the
                    state passed from a wilderness to an established society.5
            
            
               particularly that of language, may put stress on those aspects of the culture brought from
                        previous societies. For a general discussion of the problem see Ray A. Billington, Americas Frontier Heritage (
                            New York
                        , 1966), especially chapter 3.
               
                  3 The most fully developed discussions of cultural conflict in the Old
                        Northwest are John D. Barnhart, Valley of Democracy: The Frontier versus the
                            Plantation in the Ohio Valley, 1775–1818 (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1953), and Richard L. Power, Planting Corn Belt Culture: The
                            Impress of the Upland Southerner and Yankee in the Old Northwest (Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, Vol. XVIII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1953).
               
                  4 It will be apparent that "culture" as discussed in
                        this essay does not mean literary or artistic "high culture" but rather
                        culture in the broader sociological sense. In American Society: A Sociological
                            Interpretation (3rd ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1970), 25, Robin M. Williams, Jr., provides a good working definition:
                        "the total legacy of past human behavior effective in the present, representing the
                        accumulation, through generations, of the artifacts, knowledges, beliefs and values by which men
                        deal with the world." Williams also notes that this accumulation has a normative
                        effect, giving individuals prescriptions for proper actions and behavior.
               
                  5 For a succinct statement of the importance of the upland southerners in
                        the development of Indiana see Power, Planting Corn Belt Culture,
                        1–3. The case for the overwhelmingly southern background of much of Indiana is best
                        made in a series of statistical analyses by Elfrieda Lang in the Indiana Magazine
                            of History in 1953 and 1954; see particularly "Southern Migration to
            
            
            Given this pattern of migration, it might be expected that the Indianans' culture would
                    reflect almost exclusively the lifestyles of 
                        Kentucky
                     and the upland South—the regions from which the majority of the early
                    settlers came. The character of the state's culture and society is not, however, so easily
                    described. In the process of settlement and development the residents of Indiana apparently made
                    cultural choices from among a number of available alternatives, many of them traceable to eastern
                    areas. To understand the distinctively Indiana culture which resulted it is necessary to look not
                    only at the variety of influences which compose it but also at the historical conditions in which
                    these influences were combined. Such a study may in turn provide insight into the unfolding process
                    of cultural development itself.
            Attempts both to identify the culture and to account for the development of it in a place like
                    frontier Indiana meet with considerable problems of evidence. The written records favored by
                    historians are limited in value for this purpose. Travelers through early Indiana usually followed
                    well-worn paths that did not always touch the developing regions of the state's interior;
                    rarely did such visitors comment on other than the obviously eccentric or unusual character traits.
                    Since the testimony of participants in a frontier society cannot be expected to be particularly
                    revealing about the general characteristics of the newly forming society, scholars must turn to
                    other types of evidence in an effort to understand the culture and its formation. Such evidence
                    could include traces of the early culture left on the physical landscape or relatively enduring
                    features which are embedded in the more recent culture but which seem to derive from the period of
                    cultural establishment. The evidence should emanate from the people as a whole, not merely from a
                    more literate or articulate elite.
            Various kinds of evidence fulfill such criteria; for example, physical remains such as folk
                    architecture and the folkways of tools, agricultural practice, and foodways. The most systematically
                    and abundantly collected evidence, however, is that provided by language. The linguistic atlas of
                    the 
                        United States
                    , in preparation for nearly a half-century, has produced a variety of materials useful
                    to the social and cultural historian as well as to the student of language.6 The
                    materials include manuscript 
                  Northern Indiana before 1850," Indiana Magazine of History, L
                            (December, 1954), 349–56.
                  
                     6 The standard discussion of the development of the Linguistic Atlas
                            can be found in Raven I. McDavid, Jr., "The Dialects of American English,"
                            in W. Nelson Francis, The Structure of American English (
                                New York
                            , 1958), 480–543.
               
                     records of the speech of many individual Americans in all parts
                    of the country; from these have been derived published linguistic atlases of New 
                        England
                     and the upper Midwest, projected atlases for the North Central and South Atlantic
                    regions, and a variety of studies of specific localities and areas as well as a project for a
                    dictionary of regional language. The geographical patterns of dialect that emerge from these
                    materials can tell the historian something of the influence of various cultures in a given region,
                    and scholars, by combining the linguistic and the more traditional historical sources, can perhaps
                    reconstruct the cultural interactions that produce dialect variations in specific areas.
            Linguistic evidence that might yield clues about the cultural development of Indiana began to be
                    collected in the years just before World War II. It was quickly apparent that the picture was a
                    complex one. In 1940 Albert H. Marckwardt, who for many years directed the project for an atlas of
                    the North Central States, published some preliminary findings for Indiana. His comments were based
                    upon interviews with a few elderly informants born from the 1840s through the 1870s; they thus
                    reflected speech habits learned at a fairly early date. While various dialect influences were
                    apparent among the interviewees, Marckwardt detected southern speech patterns in areas much farther
                    to the north than in the neighboring states of 
                        Ohio
                     or 
                        Illinois
                    . He pointed out many specific traces of the dialect of the upland South, a dialect
                    which linguists came to call South Midland.7 Further research and fieldwork
                    confirmed Marckwardt's analysis, but it also became clear that the state's
                    adherence to South Midland speech was far from uniform. Researchers also found traces of the North
                    Midland dialect—a speech derived directly from the Middle States of the eastern
                    seaboard—though they failed to identify a regular pattern to its use. As late as 1957
                    Marckwardt pointed out that more attention had to be paid to the influences of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the Middle States upon the whole region and that the complex mixture of linguistic
                    influences and the lack of clear "dividing lines" deserved much further study.8
            
            The accumulation of Linguistic Atlas records in the 1940s and 1950s did make possible the first
                    systematic studies of 
                  
                     7 Albert H. Marckwardt, "Folk Speech in Indiana and Adjacent
                            States," Indiana History Bulletin, XVII (February, 1940),
                            120–40.
                  
                     8 Albert H. Marckwardt, "Principal and Subsidiary Dialect
                            Areas in the North-Central States," Publication of the American
                                Dialect Society, XXVII (April, 1957), 3–15.
               
                     Indiana language and its complexities.9 On
                    the basis of these records the patterns of various vocabulary, pronunciation, and grammatical usages
                    were plotted on maps to delineate more clearly the similarities and differences of language. Two
                    conclusions emerged. First, the "Northern" dialect area—that which bore
                    the impress of the stream of migration from New 
                        England
                     through western 
                        New York
                    —encompassed only a small section of the northern area of the state, which
                    had received much of its early settlement from 
                        Michigan
                    . Second, a hilly area at the extreme southern end of the state, a triangle bounded by a
                    line approximately from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     on the north and on the other two sides by the 
                        Ohio
                     and Wabash rivers, represented an area whose language seemed
                    closely related to that of 
                        Kentucky
                     and whose dialect could clearly be called "South Midland."10
            
            Categorization of that portion of Indiana which lies between these two extremes remains difficult,
                    and there is little agreement as to how to characterize the language of this central area. The
                    region in question extends from the southern edges of the valleys of the two forks of the
                        White River and the adjacent Whitewater Valley on the
                    south, northward to the northern slopes of the Wabash Valley and includes
                    approximately two thirds of the state. It is in "central Indiana" that the mixing
                    of traits from various regions has been most prevalent; 
                  
                     9 Among the principal studies touching upon Indiana dialect, in
                            addition to those by Marckwardt already mentioned, are Alva L. Davis, "A Word
                            Geography of the Great Lakes Region" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of English,
                            University of 
                                Michigan
                            , 1949), which draws upon a written questionnaire as well as atlas records; Alva
                            L. Davis, "Dialect Distribution and Settlement Patterns in the Great Lakes
                            Region," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly, LX (January, 1951),
                            48–56; Robert F. Dakin, "The Dialect Vocabulary of the Ohio
                                River Valley" (3 vols., Ph.D. dissertation, Department of English,
                            University of 
                                Michigan
                            , 1966); Robert F. Dakin, "South Midland Speech in the Old
                            Northwest," Journal of English Linguistics, V (March, 1971),
                            31–48; Timothy C. Frazer, "South Midland Pronunciation in the North
                            Central States," American Speech, LIII (Spring, 1978),
                            40–48; Raven I. McDavid, Jr., and Virginia G. McDavid, "Grammatical
                            Differences in the North Central States," American Speech, XXXV
                            (February, 1960), 5–19; Marvin D. Carmony, "The Speech of 
                                Terre Haute
                            : A Hoosier Dialect Study" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of English,
                            Indiana University, 1965); Marvin D. Carmony, "Aspects of Regional Speech in
                            Indiana," in Lawrence M. Davis, ed., Studies in Linguistics in Honor
                                of Raven I. McDavid, Jr. (University, Ala., 1972), 9–24; Marvin D.
                            Carmony, Indiana Dialects in their Historical Setting (
                                Terre Haute
                            , Ind., n.d.).
                  
                     10 For variations in defining the boundaries of this southern Indiana
                            region see Dakin, "Dialect Vocabulary," III, 92–94,
                            103–104; and Carmony, "Aspects of Regional Speech in Indiana,"
                            17. Both delineate subsidiary areas within the general area.
               
                     consequently, it is this portion of the state which most requires
                    historical analysis. Attempts to characterize the region as "South Midland"—that
                    is, related linguistically to 
                        Kentucky
                     and the upland South—must take into consideration the fact that some of the
                    most frequently heard features of 
                        Kentucky
                     speech are not common above the southern edge of Indiana near the 
                        Ohio
                    .11 For example, the plural you-all that is
                    traditionally used on the stage to indicate the South is common in 
                        Kentucky
                     but not in Indiana.12 The monophthongal pronunciation of the vowel
                    in ice—where "I had a nice time" beomes "ah
                    had a nahce tahm"—is a consistent marker of South Midland speech; yet, it is found only
                    in the southern extremity of Indiana. Likewise, the contrasting pronunciation in the vowels of horse and hoarse prevails only in the southernmost part of the
                    state; over much of central Indiana, while the practice is mixed, it is more common to hear the two
                    words pronounced alike. On the other hand, some South Midland features, such as the fairly common
                    "daeun taeun" for downtown, are heard throughout much of central
                        Indiana.13
            
            These grammatical and phonological features demonstrate that, although traces of the speech of the
                    upland South still remain, much has happened to the language of Indianans since their forebears left
                    the regions below the 
                        Ohio
                    . In examining the vocabulary of Indiana, scholars find evidence not only of change but
                    of considerable linguistic diversity. The "isoglosses," 
                  
                     11 The various features of Indiana speech discussed in this article
                            are drawn from the studies cited in footnotes 7, 8, and 9. In addition, with regard to some
                            specific areas the records of the Linguistic Atlas of the North Central States, located at
                            the University of 
                                Chicago
                            , have been used with the permission of Professor Raven I. McDavid, Jr.,
                            director, and his staff.
                  
                     12 In his doctoral study of 
                                Terre Haute
                             speech Carmony found only one instance of you-all among
                            sixteen informants; however, this form of the pronoun was used by eleven of fifteen
                            informants in 
                                Louisville
                            , a little over a hundred miles to the southeast. Carmony, "Speech of 
                                Terre Haute
                            ," 144; Robert Ray Howren, "The Speech of
                                    
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     " (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of
                            English, Indiana University, 1958), 162–64. See also Dakin, "Dialect
                            Vocabulary," II, 307–309. By contrast, in 
                                Missouri
                            , which was settled about the same time and from the same sources as Indiana,
                                you-all is a characteristic of the speech of about two thirds of the
                            inhabitants. George B. Pace, "On the Eastern Affiliations of 
                                Missouri
                             Speech," American Speech, XL (February, 1965),
                            47–52.
                  
                     13 On the basis of extensive questionnaires given to college-age
                            Indianans, Carmony argues that many South Midland features of the language are losing ground
                            to more northern speech. Carmony, "Aspects of Regional Speech in Indiana,"
                            17–20. A recent study of South Midland pronunciation features finds them more
                            frequent in the Wabash Valley and largely absent from the east-central
                            Indiana regions closer to 
                                Cincinnati
                            . Frazer, "South Midland Pronunciation,"
                        42–44.
               
                    
                    
                  MAP I
                  Courtesy James M. Bergquist.
                  KENTUCKY SPEECH
                            IN INDIANA
                  
                  There are considerable variations in the degree to which dialect features of the upland South
                            are found in Indiana. Each line on this map represents the northern limit of a particular 
                                Kentucky
                             word or usage. For a considerable distance south of this line, however, other
                            usages from other dialect areas will be found competing with the form from the upland South.
                            Sources: nicker and you-all, Albert H. Marckwardt,
                            "Principal and Subsidiary Dialect Areas in the North-Central States," Publication of the American Dialect Society, XXVII (April, 1957), 12, 13;
                                corn shucks, Robert F. Dakin, "The Dialect Vocabulary of the
                                Ohio River Valley" (3 vols., Ph.D. dissertation,
                            Department of English, University of 
                                Michigan
                            , 1966), III, 16; time pronounced "tahm,"
                            Timothy C. Frazer, "South Midland Pronunciation in the North Central
                            States," American Speech, LIII (Spring, 1978), 43.
               
                     by which dialectologists mark off the area where one word
                    prevails from that where another does, run in greatly varying patterns across Indiana; in many
                    localities the South Midland word may be chosen for one thing and the North Midland word for
                    another. Over much of Indiana, for example, horses are said to nicker—the term common in the upland South—rather than to whinny—the North Midland usage. Calling the area around the barn a lot rather than a barnyard is a form that is common in 
                        Kentucky
                     and that is heard in much of central Indiana, although both expressions are found in
                    Indiana with about equal frequency. In the same area of central Indiana the southern phrase hay loft has prevalence over the northern hay mow, but corn husks, the North Midland term, are more frequently referred to than the corn shucks common in 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 
                        Kentucky
                     hay is left in the fields in shocks; in areas to the north they are
                    more often called cocks; both words compete in Indiana, along with occasional
                    references to doodles, the term brought from western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . In all these examples, and in others, considerable mixing of terms is found within
                    specific localities, and sometimes the same individual will use North Midland words for some things
                    and South Midland expressions for others.
            Linguistic scholars attempting to define dialect areas and to draw boundaries between them obviously
                    face difficulty when such mixing of language occurs; some have resorted merely to stating the
                    frequency with which competing forms are found in a given area. The varying conclusions drawn by
                    dialectologists when they attempt to define a "boundary" between the areas of
                    North and South Midland in Indiana demonstrate the linguistic confusion there. Where the line is
                    drawn depends on what is considered basic to the dialect. If you-all is considered
                    to be essential to South Midland speech, the boundary will lie rather far to the south; if certain
                    agricultural words are used as determinants, the line will be further to the north. In a widely used
                    basic analysis of American dialects, Raven I. McDavid, Jr., in 1958 placed the boundary line close
                    to the upper 
                        Wabash
                    , leaving much of the southern two thirds of the state in the South Midland area.14 This conclusion could naturally be drawn from some of the earlier studies by
                    Marckwardt. Marvin D. Carmony, however, argued for a line further south, one running approximately
                    through the center of Indiana.15
                    
                  
                     14 McDavid, "Dialects of American English," 580.
                  
                     15 Carmony, "Aspects of Regional Speech in Indiana,"
                            12–17.
               
                     Robert F. Dakin's study, which concentrates on the
                    southern half of the state, concluded that only the hilly southernmost area could really be
                    characterized as South Midland; the great variety of mixed usage in the central part of the state
                    led him simply to characterize it as a broad "transitional area."16
            
            An effort to understand the background of Indiana speech (and thereby perhaps to understand the
                    origin of the state's culture) might best begin by accepting Dakin's premise that
                    the establishment of a clear boundary between dialect areas is not possible. Instead of trying to
                    impose a pattern upon a picture of linguistic confusion, perhaps it is better to seek the source of
                    the confusion and the process which created it.
            The usual explanation for the North Midland-South Midland admixture in Indiana centers on the
                    subsequent intrusion of migrating Pennsylvanians into the area where upland southerners had come
                    earlier. The Pennsylvanians are usually described as migrating along the route of the National Road,
                    that great project of "internal improvement" that ran from western 
                        Maryland
                     through Wheeling, 
                        Virginia
                    , central 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    .17 This explanation, however, presents problems in that much of the
                    area in question in central Indiana had been rather fully settled before the National Road became a
                    very usable route for migrants. Although surveyed in the 1820s, the road was not fully completed
                    across Indiana until after the panic of 1837 brought a collapse of land sales and the end of
                    Indiana's land boom.18 For example, 
                        Rush County
                    , located in the eastern part of the state a few miles south of the National Road, had
                    90 percent of its arable land already taken up by 1832.19 Few Pennsylvanians
                    came there, and the National Road was apparently not an important factor in its settlement; yet, the
                    linguistic atlas records show that the mixture of North Midland and South Midland speech occurs
                    there to the same 
                  
                     16 Dakin, "South Midland Speech in the Old
                            Northwest," 31–48.
                  
                     17 Marckwardt, "Principal and Subsidiary Dialect
                            Areas," 13–15; McDavid, "Dialects of American
                            English," 504; McDavid and McDavid, "Grammatical Differences in the North
                            Central States," 10; Davis, "Word Geography," 83–84.
                  
                     18 Both Dakin and Carmony express reservations about the influence of
                            the National Road; see Dakin, "Dialect Vocabulary," I, 160–65;
                            and Carmony, "The Speech of 
                                Terre Haute
                            ," xix-xx. See also Archer B. Hulbert, "The Old National Road:
                            The Historic Highway of America" (
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Archaeological and Historical Society Publications, Vol. IX; 
                                Columbus
                            , 1901), 438–39; and "National Road Centennial,"
                                Indiana History Bulletin, XVII (June, 1940), 252.
                  
                     19 Wayne E. Kiefer, 
                        
                                    Rush County
                                , Indiana: A Study in Rural Settlement Geography (Indiana University
                            Geographic Monograph Series, no. 2; 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1969), 31.
               
                     extent as in much of the rest of central Indiana.20 While a case can be made that the National Road brought Pennsylvanians to the area
                    along the eastern border of the state in the 1830s and 1840s, the explanation of the "
                        Pennsylvania
                     wedge" seems somewhat too simple.21
            
            Given the widespread diffusion of this mixed language across much of central Indiana, another
                    hypothesis might be offered to explain it, namely, that the admixture accompanied many of the
                    earliest settlers, who brought with them a speech already influenced by a variety of dialects. A
                    closer study of the migration process offers some support to this explanation.
            While linguistic influences may have been diffused across Indiana from various focal points, good
                    arguments exist for attributing particular importance to 
                        Cincinnati
                     and the adjacent areas of the Miami and Whitewater valleys. Linguistic evidence yields
                    numerous suggestions that patterns of dialect common in 
                        Kentucky
                     were altered by the practice prevailing in the 
                        Cincinnati
                     region. Examples of Miami Valley words that spread to central Indiana and replaced 
                        Kentucky
                     words include head cheese for 
                        Kentucky
                    
                    souse and chore time for the upland southerner's feeding time.
               22 There are other instances where the Miami
                    country has one word, 
                        Kentucky
                     another, and central Indiana a mixture of both. Examples include barnyard in the Miami country and barn lot in 
                        Kentucky
                    ; evening for any period after noon in 
                        Kentucky
                     and afternoon in the Miami country; and quarter
                    till the hour in 
                        Kentucky
                     as opposed to quarter of in the Miami country.23
                    Dakin's delineation of linguistic subareas in the whole Ohio Valley
                    links the Miami, the Whitewater, and adjacent portions of east-central Indiana into one region; but
                    close affinities with regions stretching across central Indiana and beyond the 
                        Wabash
                     into 
                        Illinois
                     are also apparent.24
            
            
               
                  20 The two 
                            Rush County
                         informants interviewed for the Linguistic Atlas were males born in the county in
                        1872 and 1887. Both parents of both men were born in Indiana. Both interviewees used South
                        Midland words such as barn lot, pallet, pulley bone, and (corn) shucks and demonstrated South Midland pronunciations of cow and the
                        contrasting vowels of morning/mourning and hoarse/horse.
                        Both, however, showed North Midland pronunciations of five, nine, house, and
                            due. Neither said you-all. They differed on such things
                        as the pronunciation of Tuesday and ashes and the term for
                            hay cocks/shocks. This illustrates the ways in which the usage is mixed
                        not only among individuals in one locality but within the speech of given individuals.
               
                  21 Davis, "Word Geography," 106, shows the 
                            Pennsylvania
                        -born settlers in 1870 to be concentrated mostly in the northeastern quarter of
                        Indiana.
               
                  22 Dakin, "Dialect Vocabulary," II, 337–40,
                        263–65.
               
                  23
                        Ibid., 85–88, 11–13, 17–19.
               
                  24
                        Ibid., III, 15–16, 56–57, 79, 84–85,
                        103–104.
            
            
            If, instead of seeking to divide the region, linguists considered the area of central Indiana as a
                    whole to be characterized by a commonly held linguistic heterogeneity, a different perspective
                    emerges. Such an approach is encouraged by the fact that there are other cultural aspects that the
                    region has in common and that distinguish it from extreme northern Indiana on one hand and the hilly
                    area of southern Indiana on the other. Folklorists and geographers, who in recent years have
                    attempted to map distinguishing characteristics of the folk culture in ways similar to those of the
                    dialectologist, have provided data to illustrate this point of view. Like the dialectologists, they
                    have attempted to link the diffusion of folk-cultural patterns with the routes of migration into
                    successive regions.
            One area of study which offers significant cultural data is the pattern of diffusion of
                    folk-architectural types.25 Attempts to chart the prevalence of various regional
                    styles of early architecture have reinforced the conclusions of the dialectologists in many
                    respects. There seems to be a clear consensus that the northernmost one or two tiers of Indiana
                    counties are culturally related to 
                        Michigan
                     and are different in their culture from the rest of the state. In addition, one
                    folklorist, Henry Glassie, describes the southern hilly portion of the state near the Ohio
                        River as an area included in the upland South.26 Here some
                    architectural types such as the "two-pen" house and the transverse-bay barn,
                    brought from the Appalachian South, are fairly common. Central Indiana, however, remains a mixture
                    of architectural types, where houses and barns of nearly every derivation can be found, in a pattern
                    that cannot be easily sorted out on any clear geographical basis.27
            
            
               
                  25 For statements on the subject's importance see Pierce F.
                        Lewis, "Common Houses, Cultural Spoor," Landscape, XIX, no.
                        2 (January, 1975), 1–22; and Fred Kniffen, "Folk Housing: Key to
                        Diffusion," Annals of the Association of American Geographers, LV
                        (December, 1965), 549–77.
               
                  26 Kniffen, "Folk Housing," 571; Wilbur Zelinsky, Cultural Geography of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1973), 129; Henry Glassie, Pattern
                            in the Material Folk Culture of the Eastern 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1968), 39. Both Kniffen and Zelinsky also make use of dialectal evidence.
               
                  27 Robert W. Bastian, "Indiana Folk Architecture: A Lower
                        Midwestern Index," Pioneer America, IX (December, 1977),
                        115–42. Howard W. Marshall and John M. Vlach, in "Toward a Folklife Approach
                        to American Dialects," American Speech, XLVIII (Fall-Winter, 1973),
                        169–71, claim to have identified a cultural boundary by surveying the styles of barns
                        along two "traverses" of the landscape twenty miles apart in an area southwest
                        of 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Given the known cultural complexities of the region, however, one hesitates to
                        make any extrapolations from their findings.
            
            
            
               MAP II
               Courtesy James M. Bergquist
               CULTURAL BOUNDARIES
                        IN INDIANA
               
               The two dotted lines indicate the boundaries of "material folk culture regions"
                        as described by the folklore scholar Henry Glassie. The northern end of the state was included
                        in a "northern" region; the southern tip was included in the cultural area of
                        the upland South. Glassie considered the region in between to fall in a midwestern culture
                        region. The dialectologist Robert F. Dakin drew a line almost exactly like Glassie's
                        southern one to indicate the northern limit of the South Midland dialect. A wide
                        "transitional area" of complex linguistic patterns lay between the South
                        Midland and North Midland dialects, according to Dakin; his northern boundary of that
                        transitional area is indicated by the cross-hatched line. Sources: Henry Glassie, Pattern in the Material Folk Culture of the Eastern 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1968), 39; Robert F. Dakin, "The Dialect Vocabulary of the Ohio
                            River Valley" (3 vols., Ph.D. dissertation, Department of English,
                        University of 
                            Michigan
                        , 1966), III, 93.
            
            
            Only a few attempts have been made to characterize the religious composition of various regions of
                    the 
                        United States
                    , but the evidence which has been produced suggests that much of central Indiana shares
                    a common religious composition. Attempts to map systematically the dominant religions of the area
                    reveal the prevalence of evangelical Protestantism; these maps also show a clear distinction between
                    the central area and the two extremes of the state.28 Methodists have always
                    constituted the largest religious element in central Indiana, as indeed they have in much of the
                    lower Midwest. Perhaps more significant is the strong concentration of various branches of the
                    Christian or Disciples of Christ denomination, which seem to claim this area and adjacent parts of
                            
                  Ohio, Illinois
               , and 
                        Kentucky
                     as their "core" region.29 These congregations,
                    which included both the followers of Barton Stone and those of Alexander 
                        Campbell
                    , were the direct outgrowth of the "New Light" movement born in the
                    great revival that swept through the central Ohio Valley about 1800. The
                    persistent vitality of this group in Indiana down to the present helps to mark the region as
                    especially the child of the turbulent time around the War of 1812.
            Since agriculture was basic to the settlement and growth of Indiana, any attempt to come to terms
                    with the state's society and culture must take into account the style of agricultural life
                    that developed there. Maps of the agricultural economists depict the Hoosier state as the heart of
                    the "corn belt" that was destined to spread westward across the 
                        Mississippi
                    .30 Maps of 
                  
                     28 The most ambitious attempt to analyze the religious composition of
                            regions of the 
                                United States
                             is Wilbur Zelinsky, "An Approach to the Religious Geography of the 
                                United States
                            : Patterns of Church Membership in 1952," Annals of the
                                Association of American Geographers, LI (June, 1961), 139–93, especially
                            maps on pp. 170–78. For a general discussion of the religious makeup of early
                            Indiana see L. C. Rudolph, Hoosier Zion: The Presbyterians of Early
                            Indiana (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1963), 34–73, 135–36, and 1850 statistics on 191.
                  
                     29 See the maps in Zelinsky (who uses 1952 religious census statistics
                            on church members), "Approach to the Religious Geography," 177. Edwin S.
                            Gaustad uses the numbers of congregations in his maps in Historical Atlas of
                                Religion in America (rev. ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1976), 64–67. That the same general concentration existed in the
                            nineteenth century is evident from mapping the statistics of Christian congregations in
                            1860; see Statistics of the 
                                    United States
                                 … in 1860; Compiled from … the Eighth Census
                                … (
                                Washington
                            , 1866), 381, 387. Such a map shows that the Christian churches were
                            concentrated in the same wide belt of central Indiana but were much less frequent in the
                            area north of the 
                                Wabash
                             and in the southwestern hilly area. They were, however, fairly strong in areas
                            immediately adjacent to 
                                Louisville
                            .
                  
                     30 Carle C. Zimmerman and Richard E. DuWors, Graphic
                                Regional Sociology (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1952), 83.
               
                     pre-Civil War agricultural production also show that the
                    interdependent corn-hog economy that is the hallmark of the corn belt was already well established
                    in Indiana by 1840.31 Once again the dominance of this kind of agricultural life
                    is more characteristic of the central Indiana region than of the northern and southern ends of the
                    state.
            Cultural evidence in general, then, seems to support the idea that central Indiana can be regarded as
                    a fairly distinct cultural subarea, different in a number of respects from the northernmost part of
                    the state and also from the hilly region near the 
                        Ohio
                    . Cultural characteristics of this subarea also extend westward beyond the
                    state's boundaries through much of central 
                        Illinois
                     and can be found as well in the Miami Valley region of southwestern 
                        Ohio
                    .32 The culture represents an amalgamation of influences from both
                    the upland South and the Middle States, and both the basic agricultural way of life and the
                    prevalent religious culture suggest that the forces producing this amalgamation were at work at a
                    fairly early point in the region's history, possibly as early as the period around the War
                    of 1812. The line of cultural division between the central and southern regions of Indiana
                    approximates the line between the area settled after the War of 1812 and that settled before it,
                    which suggests that cultural variations may derive from the differing experiences of those two
                    migrations. Also, the evenness with which the mixed language characteristics of central Indiana are
                    spread across the region raises the hypothesis that some, at least, of these characteristics may
                    have been brought into the region by its early settlers. Finally, the cultural affinity with the
                    Miami Valley region in southwestern 
                        Ohio
                     suggests that that area may have played a special role in the cultural development of
                    central Indiana.
            Clues that point to the cultural importance of the earliest processes of settlement in Indiana
                    corroborate the maxims of linguists and cultural geographers as to the significance of the founding
                    period in the process of cultural development. Among dialectologists it is axiomatic that the
                    strongest influence upon 
                  
                     31 Percy W. Bidwell and John I. Falconer, History of
                                Agriculture in the Northern United Stales, 1620–1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1941), 435–41, see especially map p. 438.
                  
                     32 For the linguistic picture in these 
                                Illinois
                             areas see Timothy Frazer, "The Dialect Subareas of the 
                                Illinois
                             Midland" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of English, University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1973), 257–61, passim; on comparison of 
                                Illinois
                            's agricultural development with Indiana's see Allan Bogue,
                                From 
                                    Prairie
                                 to Corn Belt: Farming on the 
                                    Illinois
                                 and 
                                    Iowa
                                 Prairies in the Nineteenth Century (
                                Chicago
                            , 1963), 216–30.
               
                     language is that of the first settlers.33
                    Those who arrive first get to call the cultural tune, and while no culture remains completely
                    static, it is relatively more difficult for latecomers, even in fairly large numbers, to displace
                    the earlier-established patterns. The geographer Wilbur Zelinsky has stated this idea more formally
                    as the "Doctrine of First Effective Settlement": "whenever an empty
                    territory undergoes settlement, or an earlier population is dislodged by invaders, the specific
                    characteristics of the first group able to effect a viable self-perpetuating society are of crucial
                    significance for the later social and cultural geography of the area, no matter how tiny the initial
                    band of settlers may have been."34 Another geographer, Fred Kniffen,
                    has also pointed out the importance of what he calls "initial occupance."
                    According to Kniffen, "The concept is important because it recognizes the initial impact as
                    long-lasting, surviving even where a new ethnic stock has succeeded the original
                    settlers…. Further, initial occupance is the base of reference for all subsequent
                        change."35
            
            As noted earlier, the story of the "initial occupance" of central Indiana is
                    clouded due to the paucity of written historical evidence, a problem not uncommon to isolated
                    frontier regions.36 The western travelers who left accounts of what they saw
                    during the earlier years often reported what they observed from boats on the Ohio
                    River or from traveling along the "Buffalo Trace" from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    ; thus, they recorded only what they saw in the older, more established sections of the
                        state.37 Impressions of that area probably contributed most to the
                    stereotype of the "Hoosier"—a name which in the early years had opprobrious
                    connotations of backward 
                  
                     33 See, for example, McDavid, "Dialects of American
                            English," 500; and Dakin, "Dialect Vocabulary," I, 22.
                  
                     34 Zelinsky, Cultural Geography of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 13.
                  
                     35 Kniffen, "Folk Housing," 551. The historian
                            Dorothy Johansen has pointed out the significance of the first occupants in a somewhat
                            different way in "A Working Hypothesis for the Study of Migrations," Pacific Historical Review, XXXVI (February, 1967), 11–12.
                  
                     36 The 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, a newspaper almost miraculously struggling along in its backwoods
                            village in the 1820s, had more to say about the machinations of the Holy Alliance and the
                            Greeks' struggle for independence than about life in central Indiana. After all,
                            its readers already knew what was happening there.
                  
                     37 Nearly all the travel accounts collected by Harlow Lindley in Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers: A Collection of Reprints from Books of
                                Travel, Letters and Diaries Prior to 1830 (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, Vol. III; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), follow these well-worn paths.
               
                     southern ruffianism.38 Such
                    characterizations of the society or its language should not be applied uncritically to areas further
                        north.39 In addition, the founding period of most of Indiana predates the
                    availability of social statistics of the modern sort. The census before 1850 was little more than a
                    list of names and households; thus, this source must be reinforced by whatever chance collections
                    come to hand.
            Although historical source materials describing the early cultural development in Indiana are
                    difficult to find, it is not difficult to define the time period of "initial
                    occupance" during which the society of central Indiana was created. At the end of the War
                    of 1812 there were few organized settlements between the White River valleys
                    and the upper 
                        Wabash
                    ; by the time of the Panic of 1837—and for the most part by 1830—a
                    well-established society existed. Records of land sales in the region reflect this rapid
                    development. The opening of government land to purchase after the war brought sales to a
                    quarter-million acres annually by 1822. After slackening in the mid-1820s, sales revived later in
                    the decade and reached a volume of over a half-million acres annually in the early 1830s. The next
                    few years brought a speculative fever that increased land sales to a high of nearly
                    three-and-a-quarter-million acres in 1836; there followed a sharp drop in the panic year of 1837. By
                    that time most of the desirable land in central Indiana was in the hands of private owners.40
            
            A knowledge of some of the historical conditions surrounding this settlement period provides clues as
                    to the immediate sources, causes, and migration routes of this population movement to Indiana. Prior
                    to the War of 1812 settlers had come to various points along the Ohio Valley,
                    but the most prolific population growth had been in the hinterland of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Here the Ohio River made a bend to the north, and in that 
                  
                     38 Raven I. McDavid, Jr., and 
                                Virginia
                             McDavid, "Cracker and Hoosier," Names, XXI
                            (September, 1973), 161–67.
                  
                     39 It is for this reason that reference to a
                            "Hoosier" culture or dialect has been avoided in this article. To Edward
                            Eggleston, the pioneer student of Indiana dialect and portrayer of its culture, only the
                            southern hilly area of the state was authentically "Hoosier." According to
                            Eggleston, "It is in the back counties, off the lines of travel, in what are called
                            hoop-pole counties in the ‘pocket,’ as the S. W. corner is called,
                            that the Hoosier grows to perfection." Draft of a talk on "The Hoosiers
                            and the Hoosier Language," quoted in William P. Randel, "Edward Eggleston
                            on Dialect," American Speech, XXX (May, 1955), 112.
                  
                     40 "Lands Sold by the 
                                United States
                            , &c: Letter from the Secretary of the Treasury," New American State Papers. Vol. I, Public Lands (Wilmington,
                            Del., 1973), 83–93.
               
                     stretch of the river the valleys of the Great and Little Miami
                    and the Whitewater all converged. The meager available statistics on the immediate sources of the
                    post-1815 settlement in areas further west point especially to the importance of this concentration
                    in the "Miami country." Attempts to compile information on the previous residence
                    of settlers from federal land records and from published biographies generally accord to 
                        Ohio
                     a greater role in Indiana's settlement than would be indicated by merely
                    tabulating Indianans' places of birth.41 A historical geography of 
                        Rush County
                    , for example, demonstrated the preeminence of the Miami-Whitewater regions as the
                    source of the county's population.42
            
            The Miami country's influence does not seem limited merely to eastern Indiana. A tabulation
                    of biographies in the county history of Edgar County, 
                        Illinois
                    , which lies just west of the 
                        Wabash
                     and was settled in the post-1815 wave of migration, shows that of 132 people listing 
                        Ohio
                     birthplaces, about half (fifty-eight) were from nine counties around 
                        Cincinnati
                     and the Miami valleys.43 A detailed population study of the areas
                    above the 
                        Wabash
                     in northern Indiana shows that the settlers of southern birth there had often come by
                    way of an intermediate residence in 
                        Ohio
                    , as indicated by the 
                        Ohio
                     birthplaces of their children.44 The statistical information is
                    sparse, but the repeated suggestion that the upland southerners often had migrated via 
                        Ohio
                    , frequently having had residence 
                  
                     41 Joseph E. Layton, "Sources of Population in Indiana,
                            1816–1850," Bulletin of the Indiana State Library, XI
                            (September, 1916), estimates that 42.3 percent of the migrants to the state had 
                                Ohio
                             as their previous residence. In contrast only 25.9 percent of those listed in
                            the 1850 census as born outside Indiana had 
                                Ohio
                             birthplaces. See also Joseph E. Layton, "Sources of Population in
                            Indiana, 1816–1850" (M.A. thesis, Department of History, University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1921).
                  
                     42 Kiefer, 
                        
                                    Rush County
                                , Indiana, 4–11. Layton's M.A. thesis, which makes
                            estimates for all Indiana counties, gives 35.9 percent of those making land entries in 
                                Rush County
                             as previously resident in 
                                Ohio
                            , 10.1 percent as previously resident elsewhere in Indiana, and 35 percent as
                            previously resident in 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     43 The nine 
                                Ohio
                             counties were 
                                Hamilton
                            , Clermont, 
                        Butler, Warren
                     , Preble, 
                        Montgomery, Greene
                     , Clark, and 
                                Champaign
                            . Biographies taken from William LeBaron, Jr., and Co., pubs., History of Edgar County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1879).
                  
                     44 Lang, "Southern Migration to Northern Indiana,"
                            349–56. See also Elfrieda Lang, "An Analysis of Northern
                            Indiana's Population in 1850," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XLIX (March, 1953), 18–19, which points out that both southerners
                            and Pennsylvanians in that area had previous residence in 
                                Ohio
                            . The importance of the Miami-Whitewater region as a gateway to Indiana is also
                            pointed out in Roger H. Van Bolt, "The Indiana Scene in the
                            1840's," Indiana Magazine of History, XLVII (December,
                            1951), 340–44.
               
                     there for a time, is reason for studying this migration in
                    greater detail and trying to understand some of the conditions that affected it.
            The regions of the middle Ohio Valley around 
                        Cincinnati
                     developed rapidly in the fifteen years before 1812, and this area became the
                    "jumping off place" for the settlement of much of central Indiana. The prewar
                    years were turbulent ones of prosperity followed by depression and the threat of Indian warfare; the
                    opportunities that lay there in the prosperous times drew two different streams of population to the
                    region and made it the first great meeting ground of northern and upland-southern cultures.
            The stream of migration from the upland South had spread across areas of 
                        Kentucky
                     in the 1780s, at which time many migrants began to eye the attractive lands beyond the 
                        Ohio
                    . Their interest was discouraged by hostile Indians until they were defeated by Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     in 1794 and were removed northward by the Treaty of Greenville in 1795. Migrants from 
                        Kentucky
                     and regions farther south then converged upon areas of present-day southern 
                        Ohio
                     and southern Indiana. The regions to the north and west of 
                        Cincinnati
                     were an especially attractive lure, for it was here in the late 1790s that individuals
                    hoped to purchase federal lands for low prices.45 Kentuckians, wearied and
                    disillusioned by that state's system of confusing private claims, rival speculators, and
                    endless lawsuits over land titles, were attracted by the desire for a clear title to cheap land
                    northwest of the 
                        Ohio
                    .46 By the time their hopes were realized by a revision of the land
                    laws in 1800, many were already squatting on federal lands in the area of the Great and Little Miami
                    rivers behind 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            The presence of these southerners was galling to private owners of large land grants in the region,
                    particularly to John Cleves Symmes, who sought to attract purchasers to his grant along the 
                        Ohio
                     between the two Miamis where 
                        Cincinnati
                     itself stood.47 The federal officials charged with governing the
                    Northwest Territory also complained of these southerners and estimated in 1799 that at least 3,000
                    people were illegally 
                  
                     45 Malcolm Rohrbaugh, The Land Office Business (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 15–17; William E. Smith, History of
                                Southwestern 
                                    Ohio
                                : The Miami Valleys (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1964), I, 143–72; Beverley W. Bond, Jr., The
                                Foundations of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                Columbus
                            , 1941), 349–54.
                  
                     46 Paul W. Gates, "Tenants of the Log Cabin," 
                        Mississippi valley Historical Review, 
                                IL
                             (June, 1962), 3–13.
                  
                     47 John Cleves Symmes to Jonathan 
                                Dayton
                            , August 6, 1795, in Beverley W. Bond, ed., Correspondence of John
                                Cleves Symmes (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 174.
               
                     settled north and west of Symmes's purchase. By 1800
                    perhaps 15,000 people were located in the entire Miami country; in the next decade, during which 
                        Ohio
                     achieved statehood, the eight counties of the Miami region grew to over 75,000
                    population. The availability of federal land, after 1800 purchasable in small tracts at favorable
                    prices, continued to attract settlers.48 The development of the agricultural
                    areas of the Miami country naturally extended to the valley of the Whitewater, which emptied into
                    the Great Miami just above its confluence with the 
                        Ohio
                    . By 1810 some 5,500 persons lived in the Whitewater region on the western side of the
                    Indiana border in an area where it was easy to be tempted by the rich lands to the west still held
                    by the Indians. The Whitewater settlers reflected the same varied origins as those of the Miami
                    country; many were from the South. Clearly, then, 
                        Cincinnati
                     and its surrounding area exerted a strong cultural influence upon one of the Indiana
                    Territory's core population centers.49
            
            Thus in the dozen years after 1795 there emerged in the river valleys around 
                        Cincinnati
                     an extensive and rapidly developing hinterland, sections of which contained settlers
                    who were decidedly southern in their origins. By all accounts, the "most southern"
                    areas were those west of the Great Miami, where the Kentuckians had sought federal lands. The
                    biographies of early settlers in the townships of Preble County—just east of the Indiana
                    border and about fifty miles north of 
                        Cincinnati
                    —show a strong predominance of immigrants from 
                  Georgia, North Carolina
               , and 
                        Kentucky
                    .50 In the Symmes grant closer to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , there were proportionately more settlers from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        New Jersey
                    , states in which Symmes had actively advertised his lands.51 In the
                    lands to the north of Symmes's purchase a rather thorough mixture of population origins
                    apparently existed, but since the area also offered federal 
                  
                     48 Clarence E. Carter, comp. and ed., Territorial Papers
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                . Vol. II, The Territory Northwest of the River 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1787–1803 (
                                Washington
                            , 1934), 8, 548–49, 587, 651, 654, III, 8; Frank P. Goodwin,
                            "The Development of the Miami Country" (
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Archaeological and Historical Publications, Vol. XVIII; 
                                Columbus
                            , 1909), 484–94.
                  
                     49 Chelsea L. Lawlis, "Settlement of the Whitewater Valley,
                            1790–1810," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIII (March,
                            1947), 23–40; Chelsea L. Lawlis, "The Great Migration and the Whitewater
                            Valley," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIII (June, 1947),
                            125–39; "Memoir of David Hoover," Indiana Magazine
                                of History, II (March, 1906), 17–26.
                  
                     50
                            History of Preble County, 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                Cleveland
                            , 1881), passim.
                  
                  
                     51 Beverley W. Bond, Civilization of the Old
                            Northwest (
                                New York
                            , 1934), 28.
               
                     lands directly to settlers, southerners had found their way
                    there at an early time as well.52
            
            The focal point of this fertile and rapidly developing region was, of course, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and its emergence as the Ohio Valley's preeminent
                    economic center in the years before 1812 was to a large extent a reflection of the expansion of its
                    hinterland. Its population, however, was markedly less southern in its origins. The available
                    statistics, while sparse, all seem to indicate a city which was socially an outgrowth of the Middle
                    States. A city directory of 1819 pointed to the largely northern and middle-state background of the
                        population,53 and the city directory for 1825 offered statistics in
                    corroboration. In that year 39.7 percent of the inhabitants listed in the city directory came from
                            
                  Pennsylvania, New York
               , and 
                        New Jersey
                    ; only 15.4 percent came from states south of the Ohio River and
                    the Mason-Dixon line. Only forty-two of the 2,427 
                        Cincinnati
                     residents who were listed claimed a 
                        Kentucky
                     birthplace—a striking contrast to the population origins of many rural areas
                    to the north and west.54 This "northern" character of the city
                    persisted; in 1841 the city directory tabulated the adult males and found that of 6,594 native-born,
                    1,210 came from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 749 from 
                        New Jersey
                     but only 349 from 
                        Kentucky
                    .55 A compilation made in 1873 of those members of a 
                        Cincinnati
                     old settlers' association who had arrived in 
                        Ohio
                     before 1812 confirms the city's northern flavor: of 230 names 130 were from
                    the three states of 
                  Pennsylvania, New Jersey
               , and 
                        New York
                    , but only fourteen were from 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     and forty-five from other southern states.56
            
            
               
                  52 For a firsthand description of the mixed population of 
                            Champaign county
                         see Solon J. Buck, ed., "Pioneer Letters of Gershom Flagg," in
                            Transactions of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society for the Year 1910 (
                            Springfield
                        , Ill., 1912), 143–47. The mixed background of the Miami country is
                        reflected in John D. Barnhart's discussion of the delegates sent to the state
                        constitutional convention of 1802. Barnhart, Valley of Democracy,
                        152–53. The continuing migration of southerners into the region is reflected in the
                            Ohio River ferryboat captain's statistics for 1805 cited by
                        James M. Miller in The Genesis of Western Culture: The Upper Ohio
                            Valley, 1800–1825 (
                            Columbus
                        , 1938), 32.
               
                  53 Oliver Farnsworth, pub., The 
                                Cincinnati
                             Directory … by a Citizen (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1819).
               
                  54 The statistics of the 1825 directory are in Daniel Drake and Edward D.
                        Mansfield, 
                     
                                Cincinnati
                             in 1826 (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1827), 135. The tabulation appears to be of male heads of households.
               
                  55 Charles Cist, 
                     
                                Cincinnati
                             in 1841: Its Early Annals and Future Prospects (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1841), 39. By 1841 the influx of German immigrants was well advanced, and 3,440
                        German-born adult males were counted.
               
                  56
                        
                     
                                Cincinnati
                             Pioneer, no. 1 (September, 1873), 15–29. See also Maurice F.
                        Neufeld, "Three Aspects of the Economic Life of 
                            Cincinnati
                         from 1815 to 1840,"
            
            
            About 1800 the Ohio Valley thus became the meeting place of two streams of
                    migration, that of the Middle States and that of the upland South. The distribution of these two
                    elements was in an uneven fashion, however, so that a predominantly northern—or Middle
                    States—city began to develop in an agricultural region that had a relatively greater
                    proportion of upland southerners. It is not difficult to imagine that a stroller in 
                        Cincinnati
                     about 1820 would have heard the accents of the upland South along the riverfront and in
                    the agricultural markets, but that in the residential districts and among the artisans and
                    shopkeepers, the speech was more frequently that of the Middle Atlantic states. It was also of
                    far-reaching importance that these two cultures represented two different economic ways of life; the
                    independent farmer of the upland South, who had previously had fewer opportunities for commercial
                    agriculture, was meeting the northern businessman. The ways in which the two interacted in the
                    changing economic environment of the first three decades of the 1800s were greatly significant to
                    the future development of midwestern culture. Much has been written of the Middle West as a scene of
                    conflict between the upland southerner and the New Englander and of the resistance of the former to
                    the moralizing of the latter.57 Perhaps more should be said of the interaction
                    between the southerner's way of life and the culture of the Middle States; in this
                    comparison historians might find—rather than an open clash—a mutual
                    collaboration induced by the economic opportunities of the time, a collaboration that might lend
                    itself to cultural accommodation.
            The rapid settlement of the Miami country in the first decade of the 1800s was
                    accompanied—and, of course, stimulated—by the opening up of the entire 
                        Ohio
                     and Mississippi valleys to the world agricultural market.58 As long as foreign powers controlled the mouth of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , the off-again-on-again "
                        Mississippi
                     Question" put a cloud over marketing the West's produce, but the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase resolved the question in 1803 just as the reviving Napoleonic 
                  
                     
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Archaeological and Historical Quarterly, XLIV (January, 1935),
                            69–70.
                  
                     57 Power plays the theme most strongly in his Planting
                                Corn Belt Culture. He admits in his preface, however, that he is being selective in
                            looking at the influence of "Yankee" and "upland
                            Southerner" and that this emphasis "denies fair attention" to the
                            influence of the Middle States (p. viii).
                  
                     58 The 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy and 
                                    Hamilton
                                 Gazette, April 29, 1801, proudly announced the arrival of an
                            ocean-going vessel built at Marietta: "her cargo is the produce of this
                            country—she is bound for some of the West 
                                India
                             islands."
               
                     wars created unusually high prices for agricultural goods. The
                    subsistence farmer who now found his surplus marketable and the merchant who could handle the
                    marketing of it could discover a common interest—and might also share a feeling of hostility toward Britain and 
                        France
                     when these countries began to impose restrictions on American trade.59 After 1808 the depressed agricultural markets, Thomas Jefferson's embargo, and the
                    increase of Indian hostilities in the West weakened trade and restrained for a time further
                    expansion of the farming frontier; nevertheless, the pressures for future expansion were growing. In
                    the years through 1815 squatters continued to move into unoccupied lands when they felt the Indians
                    to be safely held at bay; if marketing a surplus was difficult, settlers could still revert to older
                    subsistence styles of life.60 The Miami-Whitewater region continued to grow in
                    population, but the rising prices of land there heightened the urge of many to seek the cheap
                    government land further west when the opportunity should arise.61
            
            The years in the Ohio Valley just before the War of 1812 were also a period of
                    religious ferment, which condition also contributed to more frequent interchange among the various
                    population elements and furthered the process of cultural change. The origins of the "Great
                    Revival" in the West may be traced to the work of many itinerant preachers, but the seminal
                    event is usually thought to be the revival meeting at Cane Ridge, 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1801, which attracted a multitude estimated 
                  
                     59 George R. Taylor, "Agrarian Discontent in the
                                Mississippi valley preceding the War of 1812," Journal of Political Economy, XXXIX (August, 1931), 471–505.
                  
                     60 John Badollet to John Gardiner, November 18, 1814, John Badollet to
                            Edward 
                                Tiffin
                            , December 20, 1815, in Carter, Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                . Vol. VIII, The Territory of Indiana (
                                Washington
                            , 1939), 314–17, 363. For a summary of land sales in the Northwest
                            before and during the war see R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer
                                Period, 1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), I, 137. The population of Indiana Territory increased from 24,520 in
                            1810 to 63,897 in 1815. Buley, Old Northwest, I, 19.
                  
                     61 The Miami Valley region of 
                                Ohio
                             numbered about 76,000 in 1810. Daniel Drake estimated it—perhaps
                            conservatively—at 100,000 in 1815; it was 167,000 by the census of 1820. Smith,
                                History of Southwestern 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , I, 185; Daniel Drake, Natural and Statistical View, or
                                Picture of 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 and the Miami Country (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1815), 169–70. In the years immediately after the end of the war
                            prices for cultivated land averaged twelve dollars an acre in the Miami country, but
                            well-located lands near the principal towns reached forty dollars an acre. Drake, Natural and Statistical View, 53; Donald F. Carmony, ed., "From
                            Lycoming County, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , to 
                                Parke County
                            , Indiana: Recollections of Andrew Ten Brook, 1786–1823,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, LXI (March, 1965), 3–4,
                        14.
               
                     as high as twenty to thirty thousand, including many from north
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                    . Although spawned in 
                        Kentucky
                    , the enthusiasm spread in the next few years into the Miami country. Its disseminators
                    included two close associates of Barton Stone, the leader of the "New Lights":
                    Richard McNemar, who established himself at Turtle Creek near 
                  Lebanon, Ohio
               , in 1802; and David
                    Purviance, who settled among the southerners in Preble County, near the Indiana border.62 The revival was to affect established denominations—Baptists,
                    Methodists, and Presbyterians—and was to create new sects separate from the older ones.
                    While the "New Light" groups still constituted a disorganized variety of
                    dissenters before 1812, their growth drew upon both the southern and Middle States elements. In
                    subsequent years many of these dissidents would come together in the churches known collectively as
                    "Christian" and would include both the followers of Stone, who had previously been
                    a Presbyterian, and those of Alexander 
                        Campbell
                    , who emerged from the Baptists. The effects of the revival reverberated widely through
                    the Miami country as well as through northern 
                        Kentucky
                     in the years before 1812; the frightening wave of earthquakes on the eve of the war was
                    said to have doubled Methodist membership in the Miami district.63 These
                    religious stirrings generated a new cultural development in the Ohio Valley
                    which would be spread westward through Indiana in subsequent years.
            The years 1800–1815 in the Miami-Whitewater country were years of profound change in the
                    lives of most who lived in the region. A rapidly developing frontier, a wave of religious ferment,
                    depression, Indian troubles, and war with an enemy only two hundred miles to the north were
                    undoubtedly forces 
                  
                     62 Miller, Genesis of Western Culture,
                            122–29; Barton W. Stone, The Biography of Elder Barton 
                                    Warren
                                 Stone, Written by Himself (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1847), 37–38; William T. Utter, The Frontier State,
                                1803–1825 (
                                Columbus
                            , 1942), 370–74; J. P. MacLean, "The 
                                Kentucky
                             Revival and its Influence on the Miami Valley" (
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Archaeological and Historical Publications, Vol. XII; 
                                Columbus
                            , 1903), 242–86; Charles A. Johnson, "Early 
                                Ohio
                             Camp Meetings, 1801–1816," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly, LXI (January, 1952),
                            32–50; History of Preble County, 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , 256–58. Purviance and McNemar, both originally
                            Presbyterians like Stone, broke from the church to launch a new denomination in 1804.
                            McNemar later joined the Shakers.
                  
                     63 Johnson, "Early 
                                Ohio
                             Camp Meetings," 46; James Penick, Jr., The New Madrid
                                Earthquakes of 1811–1812 (
                                Columbia
                            , Mo., 1976), 117–19. For a general argument that a new religious
                            trend developed from the merging of southern and 
                                Pennsylvania
                             elements see Robert E. Chaddock, 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 before 1850: A Study of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 and Southern Populations in 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1908), 111–29. Chaddock also introduces the more questionable
                            thesis that revivalism produced an upsurge in frontier violence.
               
                     powerful enough to detach many from the established patterns of
                    life they once had known. Southerners who had migrated north of the 
                        Ohio
                     found themselves drawn into a new market economy far different from the more
                    self-sufficient agriculture that had characterized the isolated communities of the Appalachian
                    plateau. The new society and its economy necessitated cooperation with other groups from
                            
                  Pennsylvania, New York
               , and elsewhere. Slowly the upland southerners and
                    their offspring were being removed from frequent contact with the areas from which they had come.
                    Although family ties might still remain with 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee
               , or 
                        North Carolina
                    , the existence of the growing entrepot of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and the trade route of the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     lessened the economic necessity to retrace the paths of their previous migration. A
                    whole new generation grew up north of the 
                        Ohio
                     without firsthand knowledge of older homes in the upland South. Older and younger
                    generations alike looked to a postwar future in the north and west that would take them further from
                    their roots and tie them even more securely to a newer and more modern society.64
            
            The social historian looking back on the years of the early nineteenth century can see the emergence
                    of a new Ohio Valley culture that was being created with surprising rapidity by
                    the forces of change. The evolving society took the independent farmer of the upland South and tied
                    him to a new world of commerce, in which by necessity he was linked to the entrepreneurial and
                    merchant classes of the new cities of the region. In this society the early stages of the
                    transformation of American agriculture from self-sufficiency to commercial farming, pointed out by
                    Richard Hofstadter in a perceptive essay over two decades ago, are apparent. The result of the
                    transformation, as Hofstadter saw it, was a typical American farmer with a "dual
                    character," one who saw himself ideologically as a self-sufficient yeoman like the southern
                    frontiersman yet behaved most of the time with the keen entrepreneurial sense of the northern
                        businessman.65
            
            
               
                  64 That the frontier of the developing Northwest was typically a frontier
                        of the family unit has been demonstrated by John Modell, "Family and Fertility on the
                        Indiana Frontier," American Quarterly, XXIII (December, 1971),
                        615–34.
               
                  65 Richard Hofstadter, "The Agrarian Myth and Commercial
                        Realities," in The Age of Reform: From Bryan to F.D.R. (
                            New York
                        , 1955), 23–59. As a number of scholars have pointed out, the process of
                        the commercialization of agriculture should not be characterized as a sharp change from
                        "subsistence" to "commercial" but as a progression through
                        increasing stages of commercialism. For discussion of this point of view see Clarence H. Danhof,
                            Change in Agriculture:
               
            
            
            The hybrid Ohio Valley culture which was already developing in the years before
                    1812 would provide the basis for the culture which would develop in central Indiana in the years
                    following the war.66 Many settlers who would venture westward into Indiana were
                    accustomed to this cultural environment, and many of the younger generation knew no other. The
                    historical conditions of the postwar period favored both the rapid diffusion and the reinforcement
                    of the new culture.67 After the war much fertile, well-wooded, well-watered, and
                    attractive land became available in Indiana, and the high agricultural prices of the boom years
                    until 1819 encouraged frontiersmen to open new farms. Throughout the war many residents in the
                    previously settled areas nearby had cast covetous eyes on land in the Hoosier state as population
                    pressures and land prices rose in older regions. Some had spied out the choicest tracts in areas not
                    yet opened to settlers, and by 1815 perhaps twenty to thirty thousand illegal squatters were already
                    on them.68 They ventured into Indiana from numerous points along the 
                        Ohio
                     and from 
                        Kentucky
                    , but the Miami-Whitewater region provided an especially favorable jumping-off point.
                    Not only were many among the burgeoning population of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     hinterland eager to move, but their location was the most favorable for reaching many
                    areas deep within Indiana.
            The first area to draw settlers was land purchased from the Indians by Territorial Governor William
                    Henry Harrison in the Treaty of 1809. Circumstances had prevented the region from being surveyed
                    until after the War of 1812, but by the autumn of 1816—the year Indiana achieved
                    statehood—the Harrison purchase was placed on sale. Included were two large tracts, 
                  
                     The Northern 
                                    United States
                                , 1820–1870 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1969), 13–26; Andrew H. Clark, "Suggestions for the
                            Geographical Study of Agricultural Change in the 
                                United States
                            , 1790–1840," Agricultural History, XL
                            (January, 1972), 165–69; Robert D. Mitchell, Commercialism and
                                Frontier: Perspectives on the Early Shenandoah Valley (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1977), 3–7; Sam B. Hilliard, Hog Meat and
                                Hoecake: Food Supply in the Old South, 1840–1860 (Carbondale, Ill.,
                            1972), 1–20.
                  
                     66 The Ohio Valley's role as a cultural
                            "melting pot" has been remarked upon by Dakin, "Dialect
                            Vocabulary," I, 12–13; and Miller, Genesis of Western
                                Culture, pp. x, 37, 42, passim.
                  
                  
                     67 On the post-1815 Indiana settlement see Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (2nd ed., 2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), I, 239–45, 273–78, 342–45; Buley, Old Northwest, I, 32–39, 110–13, II,
                            49–53; Waldo 
                                Mitchell
                            , "Indiana's Growth, 1812–1820," Indiana Magazine of History, X (December, 1914), 369–95.
                  
                     68 Carter, Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VIII, 219–21, 373–75, 389–90.
               
                     one adjoining the Whitewater country and another extending from
                    the lower 
                        Wabash
                     eastward into the valleys of the White River.69 Between 1815 and 1819, it was estimated, Indiana's population grew by a hundred
                    thousand, with most of the increase occurring in the newly opened purchase.70
                    When the promising and extensive tract in the very center of the state was acquired from the Indians
                    in the New Purchase of 1818, squatters soon began to drift into the upper reaches of the
                        White River valleys.71 Once that area was surveyed and
                    opened to sale in 1821, one of Indiana's greatest land rushes began. In that year the
                    legislature, recognizing that the flood of settlers would drastically change the state's
                    center of population, chose the site for a new capital in the center of the New Purchase and named
                    it 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The spread of population to the upper 
                        Wabash
                     above 
                        Terre Haute
                     was symbolized by the opening of a new land office at 
                        Crawfordsville
                     in 1823. By 1825 the line of settlement stretched across the state well to the north of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . By 1827 the population of the entire New Purchase, which had been about 1,300 in 1821,
                    was estimated at 55,000. Except for the area of the upper 
                        Wabash
                     east of 
                        Logansport
                    , most of the New Purchase had a basic network of towns and settlements by 1830.72
            
            The depression of the early 1820s ruined for a time all possibility of exporting agricultural
                    surpluses; there was virtually no market at 
                        New Orleans
                    , especially for grain. The early settlers, whose roots were in the upland South and who
                    were the predominant element in the population, had of necessity to revert to the subsistence
                    farming which was part of their tradition.73 Nevertheless, long-term economic
                    forces were working to develop in central Indiana an agriculture and a way of life based upon a
                    market economy such as had been developed in the Miami country a few years before. The fruitful
                    union of Middle States commerce and upland southern agriculture would be strengthened in Indiana in
                    the next two decades and would set the pattern for the future evolution of the Middle West.74 New markets, whether in the expanding plantation 
                  
                     69 John D. Barnhart and Dorothy L. Riker, Indiana to
                                1816: The Colonial Period (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1971), 433; Rohrbaugh, Land Office Business,
                            130–31.
                  
                     70 Edmund Dana, "Geographical Sketches of the Western Country
                            (1819)" in Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers, 201.
                  
                     71 Kiefer, 
                        
                                    Rush County
                                , Indiana, 50.
                  
                     72 Buley, Old Northwest, II, 50.
                  
                     73 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 246–47.
                  
                     74 This is, of course, an oversimplification, for people of southern
                            origin did involve themselves in commerce, especially in the smaller towns, and there
               
                     South, on the eastern seaboard, or abroad, would become outlets
                    for the region's growing surplus; and the steamboat would enliven 
                        Ohio
                    -
                        Mississippi
                     commerce, facilitating upriver traffic and creating a more healthy two-way pattern of
                    trade.
            In the critical period from 1815 to 1830, growing markets, the technology of transportation, and past
                    traditions of agriculture all combined to create the fundamental relationship of middle western
                    agriculture, the corn-hog economy. The upland southerner had long relied on corn and hogs as the
                    basis of subsistence farming. Corn was an easily established and fast-growing crop that became a
                    traditional ingredient of the frontiersman's own diet. The hardy and rangy southern hogs,
                    customarily left to forage for their own feed in the nearby woods, reproduced rapidly and cared for
                    themselves until slaughtered, and they too had become a mainstay of frontier life. As the southern
                    population moved into southwestern 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, corn and hogs became a dependable source of ready extra cash. In time they
                    would become the mainstay of a new market economy,75 which depended particularly
                    on the ability to slaughter and preserve pork for the distant markets developing in the South, the
                    East, and overseas as well. While a small trade in salt pork had existed before 1812 in the
                        Ohio Valley, large-scale packing houses, centered particularly in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , began to appear about 1820. The city's dominance of the pork-packing business
                    was assisted by the expanding hinterland with its increasing supply of hogs and by favorable
                    transportation. The opening of steamboat traffic made available a better grade of salt than that
                    produced in the Ohio Valley and thus made possible a more reliably preserved
                    barrel of pork.76
            
            In the next decades the economic ties established by the developing trade in hogs extended and
                    strengthened the cultural influence of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Lack of water transportation might impede the marketing of grain in such newly
                    developed areas as Indiana's New Purchase, but hogs could be walked over the rough roads to
                    the city. During the 1820s and 1830s 
                  were people of many backgrounds involved in agriculture; but these generalizations can
                            nonetheless be accepted as characteristic of the two ways of life.
                  
                     75 Power, Planting Corn Belt Culture,
                            151–61; Richard A. Bartlett, The New Country: A Social History of
                                the American Frontier, 1776–1890 (
                                New York
                            , 1974), 192.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Mitchell
                            , "Indiana's Growth," 373; William T. Utter, Frontier State, 152–57; Thomas S. Berry, Western
                                Prices before 1861: A Study of the 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Market (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1943), 215–30; Neufeld, "Three Aspects of the
                            Economic Life of 
                                Cincinnati
                            ," 76.
               
                     the passage of thousands of hogs through the towns of eastern
                    and southern Indiana during the late fall became part of the yearly cycle of agricultural life. The
                    demands of the market altered the agricultural way of life itself; new breeds like the 
                        Poland
                        China
                     began to replace the rangy razorback, and hogs fattened on corn replaced those which
                    foraged for mast in the woods.77
            
            
               
                        Cincinnati
                     continued to maintain its preeminence as a pork-packing center until the Civil War; by
                    1840 it processed 28 percent of the Midwest's pork, a figure which was probably roughly
                    characteristic of the whole period.78 Rival packing centers developed, but 
                        Cincinnati
                     had an advantage both in the availability of capital to maintain the market and in easy
                    accessibility to an extensive hinterland. It could compete favorably throughout much of central
                    Indiana. Even in areas on the upper 
                        Wabash
                     farmers often preferred to walk their hogs to 
                        Cincinnati
                     rather than to take them to slaughter in nearby towns.79 The areas
                    of most intense hog-raising activity in Indiana lay in a belt across the central part of the state
                    and south into the White River valleys, from the Whitewater on the east to the 
                        Wabash
                     on the west.80 By 1850 
                        Rush County
                    , which combined excellent corn-raising land with accessibility to the 
                        Cincinnati
                     market, was the premier hog-raising county of the state, a position it was to maintain
                    through the nineteenth century.81 In a few decades the hog-and corn-raising area
                    of Indiana would include most of the state south of the upper 
                        Wabash
                    , and the same economy would extend westward through central 
                        Illinois
                    , giving rise to what would later become known as the "corn belt."82
            
            The existence of the corn-hog economy was a fundamental force which continued to bind together the
                        Ohio River and its rural hinterland, the farmer and the merchant, the
                    upland 
                  
                     77 Smith, History of Southwestern 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , I, 401–404; Berry, Western Prices before
                            1861, 230; Bidwell and Falconer, History of Agriculture,
                            437–40; Utter, Frontier State, 154; John Fraser Hart,
                            "The Middle West," Annals of the Association of American
                                Geographers, LXII (June, 1972), 266.
                  
                     78 Neufeld, "Three Aspects of the Economic
                            Life of 
                                Cincinnati
                            ," 76; Berry, Western Prices before 1861,
                            225–30.
                  
                     79
                            
                        
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Miscellany (February, 1846), 318–19.
                  
                     80 Counties averaging more than thirty hogs per farm in 1850 were
                            Gibson, 
                                Knox
                            , Vigo, Parke, 
                                Putnam
                            , Owen, 
                                Monroe
                            , Morgan, Johnson, Lawrence, Jackson, 
                        Orange, Bartholomew, Shelby
                     , Rush, 
                        Decatur, Fayette
                     , Union, and Clark.
                            James D. B. DeBow, Statistical View of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1854), 226, 232.
                  
                     81 Kiefer, 
                        
                                    Rush County
                                , Indiana, 80–103.
                  
                     82 Bogue, From 
                                    Prairie
                                 to Corn Belt, 216–230.
               
                     southerner and the progeny of the Middle States. The culture
                    that was associated with these relationships was an amplification of what had been established in
                    the Miami country before 1812. The interaction demanded more of the farmer than of the businessman
                    in that to adjust to the new market economy the farmer had to adopt some of the
                    businessmen's ways; thus, even as the raising of the razorback gave way to the breeding of
                    the Miami Valley hog under the demands of the new commerce, the cultures of the upland southerner
                    would be transformed by the new commercial environment. The farmer of the lower Midwest was now
                    inescapably tied to the culture of the Ohio Valley with all its altering
                    influences flowing from the Middle States.83
            
            The ties between central Indiana and the 
                        Cincinnati
                     area remained strong during most of the pre-Civil War era—stronger than they
                    have been in subsequent times. Railroad development would eventually alter patterns of travel and
                    trade, but this change was felt mostly in the 1850s, after much of the region's
                    social-cultural pattern was set. The constant concern in the interior regions of pre-Civil War
                    Indiana over the political issue of internal improvements reflects the poor transportation situation
                    that prevailed during the state's earlier development. As long as that situation persisted, 
                        Cincinnati
                    's location was advantageous both as a point of departure for settlers moving
                    into Indiana and as a center of trade. Not only did the city provide access to extensive
                    agricultural markets, but it was also a favorable distribution point for those manufactured goods
                    and supplies brought over the mountains from such major mercantile centers as 
                        Philadelphia
                    .84 Although 
                        Indianapolis
                     was situated closer to the 
                        Wabash
                     than to the 
                  
                     83 While there was generally a larger proportion of northerners in the
                            commercial centers of the Ohio Valley than in the rural areas, the
                            picture of the population makeup of the towns seems somewhat mixed. 
                                Cincinnati
                             remained disproportionately a town of the Middle States. 
                                Louisville
                             seems to have been much more southern; yet, it had more northerners than did
                            the state of 
                                Kentucky
                             in general. The town of 
                                Terre Haute
                            , according to Carmony's tabulation of the 1850 census, had more
                            northerners than southerners; but a study of the leadership of 
                        Paris, Illinois
                     , a smaller town only twenty miles away, showed a largely
                            southern elite which reflected the general composition of the population. More studies of
                            the social makeup of the midwestern commercial centers and their elites would be useful.
                            Howren, "The Speech of 
                                Louisville
                            ," xi-xv; Carmony, "The Speech of 
                                Terre Haute
                            ," xxiii, xxiv; Richard Alcorn, "Leadership and Stability in
                            Mid-Nineteenth Century America: A Case Study of an 
                                Illinois
                             Town," Journal of American History, LXI (December,
                            1974), 699; Lewis Atherton, The Frontier Merchant in Mid-America (
                                Columbia
                            , Mo., 1971), 26–32.
                  
                     84 On the distribution of goods from 
                                Philadelphia
                             and down the Ohio Valley see Atherton, Frontier Merchant in Mid-America, 59–61, 83–85.
               
                    
                    
                        Ohio
                    , the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette claimed in 1827 that the 
                        Wabash
                     could not function as an outlet for trade down the 
                        Ohio
                     without extensive effort to improve its navigation.85 The Gazette itself brought in its paper supplies from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and this seems to have been regarded as the natural source of supply.86 The entire state of Indiana developed no sizable commercial center of its own before the
                    Civil War; in 1850 
                        Indianapolis
                     and New 
                        Albany
                     had barely passed 8,000 people while 
                        Cincinnati
                     boasted 115,000.87 The National Road did not greatly alter these
                    patterns of trade. Although laid out in the 1820s, the route remained a difficult one until it
                    underwent grading and improvement in the 1830s.88 In the mid-1820s it took five
                    full days for the mail to go from 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , to 
                        Indianapolis
                    —when it was on schedule—and travelers sometimes elected to go by
                    way of 
                        Cincinnati
                     instead.89 All of these conditions favored the continuing
                    interaction of Indiana with the Ohio Valley and the expansion of the
                        Ohio Valley culture.90
            
            Just as the agricultural economy born in the Ohio Valley before 1812 expanded
                    throughout the newly settled regions of Indiana in subsequent decades, so also did the religious
                    culture born in the same region during the Great Revival. The years of settlement in Indiana were
                    also years of religious ferment from the valleys of the White rivers to the 
                        Wabash
                    . Frontiersmen bent upon exploiting the New Purchase seem not to have been deterred from
                    endless doctrinal squabbling.91 Revivalism left in 
                  
                     85
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, February 29, 1827. On the slow development of the 
                                Wabash
                             as a route of steamboat traffic see Louis C. Hunter, Steamboats on
                                the Western Rivers (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1949), 38–39.
                  
                     86
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, February 28, August 29, 1826; Gayle Thornbrough, ed., The Diary of Calvin Fletcher. Vol. I, 1817–1838
                                … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1972), 88–89; Drake and Mansfield, 
                        
                                    Cincinnati
                                 in 1826, 9.
                  
                     87 DeBow, Statistical View of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 338–93. 
                        Louisville, Cincinnati
                     's principal rival along the 
                                Ohio
                            , numbered 43,000. 
                                Indianapolis
                            's importance was as a legal and governmental center rather than as a
                            commercial one; see Carl Abbott, "Popular Economic Thought and Economic Structure:
                            Three Middle Western Cities in the Antebellum Decade," Journal of
                                Urban History, I (February, 1975), 175–87.
                  
                     88 "National Road Centennial," 252. It is noteworthy
                            that Robert Thomas Anderson's 1828 map of 
                                Ohio
                             does not show the route of the National Road west of 
                                Springfield
                            . Thomas H. Smith, The Mapping of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                        Kent, Ohio
                     , 1977), 172.
                  
                     89
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, August 12, 1823; Thornbrough, Diary of Calvin
                                Fletcher, I, 170–72.
                  
                     90
                            
                                Van
                             Bolt, "Indiana Scene in the 1840's," 338.
                  
                     91 The semiautobiographical, semifictional description of pioneer
                            Indiana by Baynard Hall is full of references to the religious controversy and revival
                            fervor of the 1820s. See Baynard R. Hall (Robert Carlton, pseud.), The New
                                Purchase: or, Seven and a Half Years in the Far West (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1843), I, 77–79, 130–60, II, 19–23, passim.
                  
               
                     its wake a myriad of small congregations striving for primitive
                    Christianity; many were Baptist offshoots, and the leadership of Alexander 
                        Campbell
                    , who first visited Indiana in 1826, lent coherence to their movement. Ultimately his
                    "Disciples" were to merge in 1832 with the "New Light" followers
                    of Barton Stone into a "Christian" church of particular strength in Indiana.92 The evangelical tradition spawned by the revival also found a place in the
                    older Protestant sects, and a century later Robert and Helen Lynd would remark on the spirit of
                    evangelical Christianity observed in Indiana's "
                        Middletown
                    ."93
            
            Thus, both cultural and historical evidence point to the genesis of an Ohio
                    Valley culture that was born in the Miami country just before the War of 1812 and took
                    root in the next two or three decades in much of central Indiana and the regions west of it. At this
                    stage in the study of regional cultural differences, it is virtually impossible to undertake a
                    complete analysis of this developing midwestern culture. One can perceive, however, old southern
                    pioneer traditions altering under the pressure of a modern commercial economy; a populace retaining
                    the upland southerner's spirit of independence, yet becoming more acutely sensitive to the
                    cycles of the economy; a society that retained its attachment to the farm as a center of family life
                    even as the farm became a link in the chain of commerce; and a people forming new religious
                    institutions upon a tradition of evangelical Protestantism. In short, the beginnings of the
                    corn-belt culture of the lower Midwest appear, a culture which would undergo still further
                    transformation as it spread further west to the edge of the Great Plains and was influenced by newer
                    factors such as the prairie environment, increased mechanization, and the coming of the railroad.
            The evolution of new cultural patterns as seen in this Indiana example reveals a process of
                    considerable complexity. To see it merely as a blending of two cultural streams is a 
                  
                     92 Christopher B. Coleman, "Some Religious Developments in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, V (June, 1909),
                            57–71; H. Clay Trusty, "Formation of the Christian Church in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, VI (March, 1910),
                            17–32; Henry K. Shaw, "The Founding of 
                                Butler
                             University, 1847–1855," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LVIII (September, 1962), 233. On the cultural outlook of the Disciples see
                            Carl 
                                Wayne
                             Hensley, "Rhetorical Vision and the Persuasion of a Historical
                            Movement: The Disciples of Christ in Nineteenth Century American Culture," Quarterly Journal of Speech, LXI (October, 1975), 250–64.
                  
                     93 Robert S. and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                : A Study in American Culture (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 11–12, 315–31, 378–82.
               
                     great oversimplification. Although the process involves
                    adaptation to the physical and social emptiness of the frontier, it was also affected by a variety
                    of conditions favorable to change: good soil and terrain, access to new markets, and new economic
                    opportunities, for example.94 Specific historical events were also influential;
                    the development of new transportation systems, the upsurge of revivalism, the pressure of Indian
                    resistance, depressions, the War of 1812 and its aftermath, and the development of a mass-production
                    meat industry all left their marks on the culture being propagated during the decades from 1800 to
                    1840. In the development of new cultures, then, history does not merely provide the setting in which
                    cultural transformation occurs; it is also an active agent and catalyst in the process.
            
               
                  94 For a discussion of environment and inherited cultural tradition in
                        forming society and culture see Berkhofer, "Space, Time, Culture and the New
                        Frontier," 21–30.
            
         
         
         
            In the Flood of 1913: Tragedy at Blue Hole
            
                    John Edward Wiltz
                    ∗
                
            Shortly after ten o'clock in the morning of March 4, 1913, a cloudy and crisp day in the
                    federal city of 
                        Washington
                    , President-elect Woodrow Wilson called at the White House. He was greeted by the
                    outgoing chief executive, the ponderous and good-humored William Howard Taft, and a few minutes
                    later the two men were moving in a four-horse landau up 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Avenue to the Capitol. On a platform erected above the east steps of the great
                    limestone and marble building Wilson repeated the presidential oath, then in a stirring inaugural
                    address proclaimed that the time had come to reform America's society.1
                    In the days that followed, Wilson and his "New Freedom" administration commanded
                    the front pages of the country's newspapers, and on March 11 the twenty-seventh president
                    announced that the 
                        United States
                     would not extend official recognition to the new revolutionary government of
                    Mexico—a "government of butchers," he called it privately.2
            
            Then, in the third week of the Wilson presidency, the attention of Americans was diverted from
                    politics and diplomacy. During the night of March 20–21 tornadoes accompanied by rain,
                    sleet, and hail lashed a wide area from the Gulf of Mexico to the Great Lakes. Described in one news
                    account as "the most terrific equinoctical storm in years," the atmospheric
                    outburst reportedly left as many as a hundred people dead, 
                  
                     ∗ John Edward Wiltz is professor of history, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . The author acknowledges the help of his mother, Lola June Wallace, in the
                            preparation of this article. He also acknowledges the assistance of Howard N. Barr, Sr., and
                            Robert F. Smith, who provided the photographs.
                  
                     1
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, March 5, 1913.
                  
                     2 Arthur S. Link, Wilson: The New Freedom (
                                Princeton
                            , 1956), 349–50.
               
                     most of them in the southern states.3 Worse
                    unfortunately was yet to come. On the evening of Easter Sunday, March 23, tornadoes and high winds
                    ravaged an area from the Dakotas and 
                        Oklahoma
                     eastward to Indiana. Hardest hit were Omaha, 
                        Nebraska
                    , and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, where tornadoes claimed ninety-four and twenty-one lives respectively.4
            
            Alas, the ordeal of a vast area of mid-America was just beginning. Accompanying the tornadoes and
                    winds of March 23 were heavy rains that continued through the following day. Because of the presence
                    of stationary high pressure systems over lower 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        Bermuda Islands
                    , the low pressure cell that was producing the rain—now centered over 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Ohio
                    —could not move. Indeed a great low pressure trough, wedged between the two
                    high pressure systems, extended from 
                        Texas
                     to New 
                        England
                    ; and while rain drenched the upper reaches of the Ohio River
                    watershed on March 24, a second rainstorm was moving up the trough toward the first. When the two
                    storms joined, on March 25, the outcome was a veritable deluge.5 In addition to 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Ohio
                    , the lower region of the Ohio River watershed and also parts of
                            
                  Arkansas, Missouri, Pennsylvania
               , and 
                        New York
                     were victims of torrential rains.6
            
            At length, on March 27, the high pressure system over the Bermudas gave way, and that over lower 
                        Canada
                     moved out to the Atlantic; whereupon, the rainstorm drizzled to an end. But over a
                    great area of the Ohio River watershed more than six inches of rain had fallen
                    in the period of March 23–27, and in an area reaching from southeastern 
                        Illinois
                     across northern 
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 22, 1913. No official figures on the death toll of the storm
                            of March 20–21, 1913, are available. If death tolls published in newspapers in
                            the days that followed—in the aftermath of a similar storm on March 23 and during
                            the great flood of late March-early April, 1913—are any guide, the figure of
                            approximately one hundred given in news reports on March 22 was wildly inflated.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 24, 1913; U.S., Department of Agriculture, Weather Bureau, Monthly Weather Review, XLI (March, 1913), 359, 396, 481–84.
                  
                     5 Hal P. Bybee and Clyde A. Malott, "The Flood of 1913 in the
                            Lower White River Regions of Indiana," Indiana
                                University Bulletin, XII (October, 1914), 125–26; Alfred J. Henry,
                            "Rivers and Floods, March, 1913," in U.S., Department of Agriculture,
                            Weather Bureau, Monthly Weather Review, LXI (March, 1913),
                            485–92.
                  
                     6 For detailed figures on rainfall in the 
                                United States
                             during the period March 23–27, 1913, see the daily precipitation
                            tables in U.S., Department of Agriculture, Weather Bureau, Monthly Weather
                                Review, XLI (March, 1913), 334–37, 351–54, 364–67,
                            377–79, 389–92, 405–10, 423–27,
                            434–36, 443–45, 452–53, 460–63,
                            472–76.
               
                    
                    
                        Ohio
                     the rainfall had been between eight and eleven inches. "At no time in the
                    history of the Ohio Valley has so much rain fallen in a 72-hour period as fell
                    last March 23–27," disclosed a report published the following year. "In
                    many local areas, as large an amount of rain has fallen in an equal length of time, but never has
                    there been such a heavy rainfall over so large an area in so short a time"7 (see Figure 1).
            The result of so much rain over such a vast area in so little time was one of the most devastating
                    natural disasters in American history: the flood of 1913.
            Because of considerable rainfall in the previous days of March, the ground across the upper
                        Ohio River watershed, as well as in other parts of the country, was
                    saturated when the heavy rain commenced on March 23 and thus could absorb little of the downpour.
                    For the same reason the rivers and streams of the upper Ohio Valley were well
                    up in their banks. In the first twenty-four hours of the rainstorn, accordingly, rivers and streams
                    in the upper Ohio Valley began to overflow. In the days and weeks ahead large
                    areas of the 
                        Ohio
                     and lower Mississippi valleys were inundated—as were
                    the Hudson River Valley in 
                        New York
                     and the Connecticut River Valley in New 
                        England
                    .8
            
            For railroad men, of course, nothing was quite so frightening as the prospect of a great flood; and
                    as murky water inched up the measuring gauges in the upper Ohio Valley and
                    spread across the countryside in the last days of March, 1913, they saw their worst fears come true.
                    The water smashed against bridges and fills, passed over mile after mile of track, and flooded
                    stations and storage facilities. It brought freight and passenger operations to a virtual
                    standstill. Indeed, if all the armies of Europe had invaded the upper Ohio
                    Valley on March 23, 1913, it is doubtful that in the next week they could have wrought as
                    much devastation to the railroads of the region as did the flood waters.
            No rail lines were harder struck than those of the mighty 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , "the Standard Railroad of the World." In the words of a contemporary
                    commentator, the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     "was ripped and torn asunder by the floods." Between Mineral City and 
                        Newark
                     in 
                        Ohio
                     the Muskingum River and its tributaries 
                  
                     7 Bybee and Malott, "Flood of 1913," 126.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 127; Alfred J. Henry, The Floods of 1913 in the Rivers
                                of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 and Lower Mississippi valleys
                     , in U.S.,
                            Department of Agriculture, Weather Bureau, Bulletin Z (
                                Washington
                            , 1913), 24–114.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 1
                  Reproduced from Alfred J. Henry, The Floods of 1913 in the Rivers
                                of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 and Lower Mississippi valleys
                     , in U.S.,
                            Department of Agriculture, Weather Bureau, Bulletin Z (
                                Washington
                            , 19131.
               
                     produced a fifty-one-mile lake that washed over the 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's main line from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        Columbus
                    . Between Masillon and Mansfield thirty miles of the 
                        Pittsburgh
                    -
                        Chicago
                     line were inundated (see Figure 2). The angry water destroyed or severely weakened
                    seventy-four steel bridges of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , washed out roadbed at literally thousands of points, and marooned (during one day)
                    some nineteen passenger trains.9
            
            Lying south of nearly all the western lines of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     was the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Southwestern, a subsidiary of the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . Like the 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the B&OSW was staggered by the flood, particularly from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to the Wabash River (on the present-day 
                        St. Louis
                     Division of the Chessie System). The Ohio River overflowed
                    B&OSW rails between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana. The East Fork of White River inundated much of the
                    B&OSW between Brownstown and Rivervale and between Willow Valley and Loogootee and washed
                    away the girder bridge near Medora. Track was flooded between Wheatland and Fritchton, and when
                    upstream levees finally gave way, the 
                        Wabash
                     rolled over the B&OSW rails just west of 
                        Vincennes
                    , on the Allison Prairie in 
                        Illinois
                    .10
            
            But it was at a place called Blue Hole, a mile and a half west of the B&OSW locomotive and
                    car shops at 
                        Washington
                    , Indiana, where the B&OSW's most memorable happening of the flood of
                    1913 came to pass.
            Just west of the shops the rails of the single-track B&OSW moved on to an earthen fill that
                    carried them for three and a half miles—at heights of ten to fifteen
                    feet—across the sandy bottomland of the twisting, meandering West Fork of White
                        River (see Figure 3). Nine hundred yards from the beginning of the fill, moving east
                    to west, the B&OSW passed over the abandoned ditch of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, a ghostly monument to the dreams of canal enthusiasts of the second
                    quarter of the nineteenth century. Five hundred yards beyond the canal it passed over Blue Hole, a
                    body of water that was approximately two hundred feet wide, four hundred feet long, and thirty to
                    forty feet deep.11
            
            
               
                  9 Lewis S. Bigelow, "The 
                            Ohio
                         Floods of 1913," in Slason Thompson, comp. and ed., The
                            Railway Library, 1913 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1914), 233, 239, 248.
               
                  10
                        
                            Washington
                        , Indiana, Democrat, March 25, 26, 27, 29, 1913. The archives of
                        the Chessie System contain no documentary material pertaining to the flood in southern Indiana
                        and 
                            Illinois
                        . The Chessie archives are located in 
                     Baltimore, Maryland
                  .
               
                  11 The exact dimensions of Blue Hole before the flood of 1913 are unknown.
                        Visiting the hole a few weeks after the flood, Bybee and Malott found it to be
            
            
            
               FIGURE 2
               Reproduced from Lewis S. Bigelow, "The 
                            Ohio
                         Floods of 1913," in Slason Thompson, comp. and ed., The
                            Railway Library, 1913 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1914), 236, 237
            
            
            
               FIGURE 3
               Courtesy John Edward Wiltz.
            
            
            Interestingly, when the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad (predecessor of the B&OSW) constructed the fill in the early 1850s,
                    Blue Hole had not existed. The hole received its birth during the great flood of 1875 when waters of
                    the West Fork of White River pounded against the O&M roadbed, broke
                    through at that point, and as a result of the downward swirling action of the current scoured the
                    hole from the sandy bottomland.12 The O&M thereupon constructed a timber
                    and pile trestle of 284 feet across the upper end of the new scour hole—a hole that in a
                    few years came to be called Blue Hole.13
            
            Four hundred yards beyond Blue Hole the B&OSW crossed 
                        Prairie
                     Creek via a single-span girder bridge14 at a point just before the
                    creek emptied into a bend in White River called Ninety-Foot Hole (a misnomer,
                    for the normal depth of the river at the mouth of 
                        Prairie
                     Creek was not nearly ninety feet). Approximately one mile west of 
                        Prairie
                     Creek the B&OSW crossed White River over a two-span truss
                    bridge of 450 feet that had gone up in 1894, one year after the B&OSW took over the line
                    from the O&M.15 Several hundred yards beyond the latter bridge the rails
                    of the B&OSW exited the bottomland.
            Less than twenty-four hours after the skies opened and the great downpour of 1913 began, on Monday,
                    March 24, the banks of the West Fork of White River in the 
                        Daviess
                    -
                        Knox County
                     area reached the end of their capacity to contain the debris-laden water that was
                    cascading down from the north. The river spilled over into the bottomland, inundated houses and
                    barns, and sent people and farm animals scurrying to the safety of high ground.16 Soon the overflow from the river made a junction with water that had moved out of the banks
                    of 
                  350 feet wide, seven hundred feet long, and forty feet deep—about twice as
                            large, they believed, as it had been before the flood. Because of silting, Blue Hole is
                            considerably smaller in the present day than it was when observed by Bybee and Malott in
                            spring of 1913. Bybee and Malott, "Flood of 1913," 195.
                  
                     12 Bybee and Malott, "Flood of 1913," 195. On page
                            138 of their report Bybee and Malott offered a paragraph on the making of scour holes during
                            floods.
                  
                     13 The length of the original trestle over Blue Hole is given in
                            Edward Hungerford, The Story of the 
                                    Baltimore
                                 & 
                                    Ohio
                                 Railroad, 1827–1927 (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928), II, 287.
                  
                     14 The structure over 
                                Prairie
                             Creek was a plate girder bridge of the "through" type; that
                            is, the floor system is carried by the bottom flange as opposed to a
                            "deck" type in which the floor system rests on the top flange.
                  
                     15 Robert F. Smith, From the 
                                    Ohio
                                 to the 
                                    Mississippi
                                : A Story of a Railroad (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1965), [60].
                  
                     16
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Democrat, March 25, 1913; 
                                Washington
                            , Indiana, Gazette, March 28, 1913. The Gazette was a weekly publication; the author has been unable to locate the daily 
                                Washington
                            
                            Herald for the spring of 1913.
               
                    
                    
                        Prairie
                     Creek. Still, the rails of the B&OSW, riding atop the fill many feet above the
                    bottomland, seemed secure; and Atlantic-powered passenger trains and Consolidation-powered
                        freights,17 their exhausts blasting momentary holes in the downpour,
                    continued to thunder across what trackmen called "the river section."18
            
            In the first thirty hours after the downpour began, in truth, the flood situation appeared more
                    menacing at other points on the B&OSW. Far to the east of the West Fork bottomland, the
                        Ohio River and the East Fork of White River were
                    pressing about the railroad. To the west, at Beman, 
                        Illinois
                    , the rushing overflow of the 
                        Wabash
                     had weakened roadbed, requiring trains to slow to a crawl. Then, on Tuesday, March
                    25—the day the downpour turned into a torrent—countless washouts forced the
                    annulment of all B&OSW trains between 
                        Washington
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Several hundred passengers on four eastbound trains that had arrived from 
                        St. Louis
                     found themselves stranded in 
                        Washington
                    , a town of eight thousand people. They secured lodging in local hotels and private
                    homes (at B&OSW expense) and in sleeping cars that the company parked on a siding near the
                        depot.19
            
            By Wednesday, March 26, the downpour abated to less than a fourth of what it had been the day before
                    in most areas of the upper Ohio River watershed.20 In the
                    West Fork bottomland in 
                        Daviess
                     and 
                        Knox
                     counties, of course, the floodwater continued to rise; it passed over Blue Hole and
                    inched toward the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal. More ominously, the water was climbing the B&OSW fill, smashing
                    surflike against the embankment and washing away large chunks of earth. The fill, in truth, had
                    become a veritable levee; water was several feet higher on the north side than on the south and was
                    rushing through the openings at the White River and 
                        Prairie
                     Creek bridges and the Blue Hole trestle with murderous force. 
                  
                     17 Designed for speed, an Atlantic-type steam locomotive had a
                            four-wheel leading truck positioned beneath the cylinders near the front of the machine,
                            four large driving wheels (eighty inches in diameter in the case of Atlantics used by the
                            B&OSW), and a two-wheel trailing truck beneath the firebox; in other words, a
                            4–4–2. Designed for power, a Consolidation had a two-wheel leading
                            truck positioned in front of the cylinders, eight driving wheels of comparatively small
                            diameter, and no trailing truck, a 2–8–0.
                  
                     18 In the early 1920s the author's grandfather, Emmanuel
                            Daniels, was the foreman of track crews that maintained "the river
                            section."
                  
                     19
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Democrat, March 25, 26, 1913; 
                                Washington
                            
                            Gazette, March 28, 1913.
                  
                     20 See precipitation tables cited in note 6.
               
                     Trackmen, cold and wet, were moving back and forth along the
                    fill and over the bridges and trestle, watching for washouts and removing driftwood and debris.21
            
            By Thursday, March 27, the rain had stopped in most of the upper Ohio Valley.22 The floodwater continued to rise, however, and in the White
                    River bottomland of 
                        Daviess
                     and 
                        Knox
                     counties had moved up the B&OSW fill to within a yard of the rails. To make
                    matters worse, the temperature had fallen, and flurrying snow added to the discomfort of the nearly
                    one hundred workmen—many of them normally employed in the locomotive and car shops in 
                        Washington
                    —who were feverishly repairing cracks in the fill with thousands of sandbags.
                    It appeared that the men were toiling in vain, for observers expressed scant hope that the fill
                    could be saved. Should the fill or its bridges give way, 
                        Washington
                    —totally dependent on rail transportation as were most cities and towns in
                    1913—would be cut off from the outer world, inasmuch as floodwaters had already
                    immobilized the 
                        Chicago
                     and Eastern 
                        Illinois
                     branch line (present-day Conrail) that connected the town with points to the north and
                        south.23
            
            Then came a brush with disaster.
            On the afternoon of March 27 passenger train Number Eleven, assembled for what might be the last run
                    to 
                        St. Louis
                     during the flood crisis, was standing at the depot in 
                        Washington
                    , some two miles east of the fill. The fireman had built up the steam pressure in the
                    locomotive (almost certainly an Atlantic) at the head of the train. Leaning backward out the cab
                    window, the engineer was peering down the length of the train at the conductor preparatory to
                    getting underway. As the conductor raised his arm to signal the highball, operator Al Gossett rushed
                    out of the station waving his arms and shouting. Gossett had just received word that the floodwater
                    had loosened the girder bridge at 
                        Prairie
                     Creek from its moorings and had moved it a foot out of line. In another few seconds the
                    locomotive's tall driving wheels would have been speeding Number Eleven toward a possible
                    rendezvous with calamity.24
            
            The dislocation of the 
                        Prairie
                     Creek bridge, of course, added 
                        Washington
                     to the scores of cities and towns across the 
                  
                     21
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Democrat, March 27, 1913; 
                                Washington
                            
                            Gazette, March 28, 1913.
                  
                     22 See precipitation tables cited in note 6.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Democrat, March 27, 28, 1913; 
                                Washington
                            
                            Gazette, March 28, April 4, 1913.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Democrat, March 28, 1913.
               
                     upper Ohio Valley that were almost totally
                    isolated. In the meantime the effort to prevent destruction of the fill and bridges in the
                        White River bottomland continued. It was almost as though the ninety or so
                    men deployed along the fill were waging war against the churning water. Their ammunition in the
                    struggle was sand poured into bags and packed into the resultant gaps whenever the water made a
                    successful assault on the earthen embankment. Keeping them supplied with that ammunition through the
                    afternoon and evening of March 27 was a short work train that moved back and forth between the
                    battle area and a sandpit just west of the shops where other men were feverishly preparing the
                    sandbags. Providing power for the train was Locomotive Number 401.25
            
            Built for the O&M by the 
                        Rhode Island
                     Locomotive Works in 1890, the 401 and its sister locomotive, Number 400, comprised the
                    parent B&O's E-25 class of Consolidations. The 401 had slide valves, fifty-one-inch
                    driving wheels, and weighed 121,800 pounds. It operated at 156 pounds of steam pressure and exerted
                    a tractive force of 25,000 pounds. By 1913 the 401—a small machine even by standards of
                    the early twentieth century—had become a switching locomotive, seldom straying from the
                    yards in 
                        Washington
                    . It was equipped with footboards on both the pilot beam and tender, and mounted on the
                    tender was an oil-burning backup light that was almost identical to the headlight that rested atop
                    the smokebox26 (see Figure 4).
            
                    The night was dark and the wind was cold,
                    And the swift flowing water, its horrors lent,
                    As bravely over the trestle at Old Blue Hole,
                    Our daring men on duty went.27
               
                
            At 10:30 on the evening of March 27 the battle between workmen and the raging floodwater continued at
                    full tilt. Residents on high ground at Maysville, a mile to the south of the fill (and a one-time
                    canal station), could see the flickering of many lanterns bobbing back and forth along the fill and
                    hear the dull roar of water rushing through the pilings and timbers of the Blue Hole trestle.28 They also could doubtless see the 
                  
                     25
                            Ibid.; 
                                Washington
                            
                            Gazette, April 4, 1913.
                  
                     26 See also Alvin F. Staufer, B&O Power: Steam,
                                Diesel and Electric Power of the 
                                    Baltimore
                                 and 
                                    Ohio
                                 Railroad, 1829–1964 (Medina, 
                                Ohio
                            , 1964), 59.
                  
                     27 D. L. Donaldson, "The Tragedy of Old Blue Hole," 
                                Washington
                            
                            Democrat, April 12, 1913.
                  
                     28 Unless otherwise indicated, all information about the events of the
                            evening of March 27, 1913, at Blue Hole and the surrounding area was taken from the 
                                Washington
                            
                            Democrat, March 28, 1913, and the 
                                Washington
                            
                            Gazette, April 4, 1913.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 4
                headlight and backup light of the 401 and the orange glow that outlined the
                    locomotive's firebox.
            Shortly before 10:45 the 401 pushed the work train—by that time comprising three
                    boxcars—across the trestle to a point near the dislocated 
                        Prairie
                     Creek bridge. It was the sixth trip the train had made from the sandpit since
                    midafternoon, and in addition to hundreds of sandbags it carried an undisclosed number of shopmen
                    who had answered calls to work on the stricken fill. Observing the operation were Carlos G. Stevens,
                    trainmaster of the B&OSW's 
                        Illinois
                     Division (
                        Washington
                     to East 
                        St. Louis
                    ); Daniel L. Shaffer, general yardmaster at 
                        Washington
                    ; and Clifford McLemore, night yardmaster.
            A few minutes before 11:00 p.m., after the last sandbags had been removed from the train, a decision
                    was made—probably by Stevens—to return to the sandpit. Stevens, Shaffer, and
                    McLemore climbed into the cab of the 401 while (one may assume) fireman Reason Jackson rammed his
                    scoop into the coal pile, opened the fire door, and heaved the black combustibles into the firebox.
                    Engineer Theodore Gharst, who the day before had celebrated his thirty-eighth birthday, reversed the
                        
                    
                  FIGURE 4
                Stephenson valve gear, released the engine brake, and slowly opened the throttle. When
                    saturated (i.e., nonsuperheated) steam made its way into the cylinders, the locomotive, running
                    backward, tugged gently at the three-car train. Riding alone in the first boxcar was Otto McClellan,
                    one of the shopmen who had been recruited to work on the fill. In the third car were twenty other
                    workmen, and standing on the footboard of the 401's tender was switchman Daniel Tucker.29
            
            As the tender of the 401 approached Blue Hole, Gharst closed the throttle and set the brake. Stevens
                    wanted to talk with the bridge carpenter who had been observing the trestle. Because of the roar of
                    the water raging through the piles and timbers, conversation must not have been easy, but the
                    carpenter shouted that the structure was perfectly safe. The men in the cab of the 401 were not
                    entirely persuaded and agreed among themselves that this would be their last trip across the
                    thirty-eight-year-old trestle.
            
               
                  29 The date of Gharst's birth was related to the author in the
                        autumn of 1978 by the engineer's daughter, Adeline Gharst Wirts.
            
            
            Gharst again released the brake and opened the throttle. Standing at the opening between the
                    locomotive cab and tender on the left (downstream) side of the deck, doubtless peering down at the
                    rushing water, was Stevens. Shaffer was standing directly behind the trainmaster. McLemore was
                    standing beside Jackson—presumably on the left (fireman's) side of the
                    cab—between Stevens and Shaffer and the backhead of the locomotive.30
                    Tucker clung to the grab rail on the tender above the footboard with one hand; a flickering lantern
                    must have dangled from the other. The eight driving wheels of the 401 began to turn. The beam from
                    the locomotive's backup light pierced the darkness and cast an eerie glow over the water
                    that was cascading through the trestle.
            
                    Just one more trip and they were done,
                    They thought as back over the trestle they crept,
                    Two [actually three] cars of men, pulled by the old 401,
                    And faithful Dan Tucker on the engine [tender] step.31
               
                
            First the tender moved onto the trestle. Tucker's eyes probably were fixed on the two
                    ribbons of steel that reached into the darkness and glistened in the yellowish glow of the
                    401's backup light. Because of the rushing water it is doubtful that he could have heard
                    the muffled exhaust of the locomotive. Next the driving wheels of the 401 passed on to the trestle,
                    and after that the spoked leading truck.
            Then it happened.
            Without warning—perhaps a preliminary sway—timbers began to split, pilings to
                    snap. The initial collapse of the Blue Hole trestle came at a point between the locomotive and the
                    tender, causing the two main components of the 401 to close like a jackknife. Before the tender
                    could smash into the wooden cab, Stevens leaped into the water. Still clinging to the grab rail
                    above the footboard, Tucker was hurled in the air, his feet above his head. As the locomotive
                    splashed into the water on the downstream side of the trestle, he continued to grip the rail. While
                    the water lashed at the remnants of the 284-foot trestle—it did not complete its conquest
                    until the next morning—the 401 slid from view, was carried some thirty feet downstream by
                    the current, and settled on its right side in more than twenty feet of water.
            
               
                  30
                        
                            Washington
                        
                        Democrat, April 26, 1913.
               
                  31 Donaldson, "Tragedy at Blue Hole."
            
            
            
                    Into the water, these men were thrown,
                    With each his own battle to fight,
                    The water closed over them with its awful moan,
                    And the struggle was on, between right and might.32
               
                
            Pulled by the suction of the sinking locomotive, Stevens went many feet under the water, struggled to
                    the surface, and grabbed a piece of trestle timber that was floating downstream. Fearing that the
                    current was drawing him toward the main channel of White River, he let loose of
                    the timber and through the darkness swam to a drift of limbs and branches. The drift proved no
                    refuge, for the trainmaster again found himself being sucked beneath the water. Then, as he felt his
                    strength ebbing away, he was propelled back to the surface. At that point he glimpsed the outline of
                    a row of treetops protruding from the water. The treetops were adjacent to Hawkins Creek, more than
                    a half-mile south of the B&OSW fill. He grabbed a limb, planted a foot in the crotch of a
                    small tree, and began to shout for help.
            Tucker meanwhile was waging his own struggle for survival. Still clinging to the 401's
                    tender, Tucker plunged into the swirling water headfirst, stayed with the tender until it hit
                    bottom, then struggled to the surface where he collided with a trestle timber. He grabbed the timber
                    and was floating downstream when another timber jarred him loose. He latched on to yet another
                    timber, only to be knocked loose a second time. After slipping several feet under the water, he made
                    his way back to the surface where he spotted a large flat object that was floating
                    nearby—possibly the door of a boxcar—and pulled himself atop it. Then, like
                    Stevens, he feared that the current was moving him toward the main channel of the river. Paddling
                    frantically with his hands, he managed to change the course of his conveyance and through the
                    darkness sighted treetops. Again like Stevens, he had reached the vicinity of Hawkins Creek. Wet and
                    cold, the shivering switchman grabbed a limb and climbed into a tree. He made voice contact with
                    Stevens, and the two men stepped up their cries for help.
            Hearing the cries, residents of Maysville organized search parties, moved out in small boats across
                    the flooded landscape, and some three hours after collapse of the trestle rescued Stevens and
                    Tucker. There were no signs of Shaffer, McLemore, Gharst, and Jackson.
            
               
                        32
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            
               SCENE
                        OF
                        THE FLOOD DAMAGE
                        AT BLUE HOLE
               
               Reproduced from Robert F. Smith, From the 
                                Ohio
                             to the 
                                Mississippi
                            
                   (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1965), [59].
            
            Back on the fill meanwhile another act of the Blue Hole drama had played out. When the 401 began its
                    plunge into the depths of the hole at a few minutes past 11:00 p.m., it remained coupled to the
                    first boxcar of the work train long enough to cause the car to overturn. Although one of its doors
                    may have broken loose and provided a raft for Tucker, the width of the fill at track level was
                    sufficient to prevent the car from tumbling into the water. Sparks from the stricken locomotive set
                    the car afire, and the resultant flames illumined the area around Blue Hole for the next two hours.
                    Fortunately the sole occupant of the car, Otto McClellan, escaped with minor injuries. The remaining
                    two cars of the work train stayed on the rails, and the twenty men in the last of those cars were
                    unscathed.
            As might be expected, the shock resulting from the demise of the 401 and the men in its cab sapped
                    the workmen on the fill of any incentive to continue the battle against the churning water. Collapse
                    of the Blue Hole trestle, moreover, had cut off the approximately seventy men toiling to the west of
                    the trestle from their supply of sandbags. The great overbearing concern of the men thus became to
                    get off the fill, the more so since many of them feared in the aftermath of what had happened to the
                    trestle that the entire embankment might now wash away. There seemed only one path of escape: along
                    the fill to the White River bridge and thence to the town of Wheatland two
                    miles beyond.
            
            Thus, while Stevens and Tucker were awaiting rescue, the workmen on the fill, led by foreman John H.
                    Jackman, began to trek westward—destination, Wheatland. After proceeding a mile from the
                    dislocated 
                        Prairie
                     Creek girder bridge, the men approached the two-span truss bridge over White
                        River. Jackman ordeied the men to halt. He explained that he wanted to inspect the
                    bridge before leading them across. Then, before the inspection could begin, the men heard the
                    ghastly sounds of twisting and snapping steel, cracking crossties, and finally a mighty roar and
                    crash. The relentless floodwater had claimed the White River bridge and
                    isolated the men, several of them terror-stricken, on the fill.
            Some of the workmen now pondered another avenue of escape. Five hundred yards east of the fallen
                    river bridge a switch track angled away from the B&OSW main. It led to a grain elevator at
                    the foot of Tom's Hill, a rise some five hundred yards north of the fill. Although
                    completely surrounded by water, the hill was in no danger of being inundated. Equally enticing, the
                    residence of E. Ervin Padgett stood near the top of the hill, and the men could see the light of
                    kerosene lamps inside the house. A few feet from the turnout, to be sure, the switch track was under
                    water, and there was no way to ascertain how deep the water might be farther along. There was,
                    moreover, the matter of the water's current and also the blackness of the night.
                    Approximately half of the men concluded that the risk of trying to push through the water to
                    Tom's Hill outweighed that of staying on the fill and awaiting rescue. Thirty-two of their
                    co-workers, including eight black men from Wheatland, decided otherwise.
            And so the intrepid thirty-two, led by Jackman and Charles Denson, waded single file into the water.
                    Unable to see where they were walking, they relied on one of the submerged rails to guide their
                    steps. The water was cold and eventually reached the shoulders of the shorter men. Fortunately the
                    current presented no hazard, although the men stumbled repeatedly in holes between the rails of the
                    seldom-used switch. For perhaps thirty minutes they pressed on through the water until at last they
                    reached the hill, then scrambled up to the Padgett house and pounded on the front door. The Padgetts
                    welcomed the cold and drenched men, built a huge fire in the stone fireplace, and served hot coffee.
                    Meanwhile the telephone wire from the Padgett house was transmitting the news that all of the men
                    who had been working on the fill were safe, thus squelching a rumor that had swept 
                        Washington
                     that 150 men 
                    
                  PILE DRIVER
                            AT WORK REBUILDING
                            THE TRESTLE
                            OVER BLUE HOLE
                  
               
                    
                  REBUILDING
                            THE TRESTLE
                            OVER WHITE RIVER
                  
               
                     had perished as a result of the collapse of the trestle at Blue
                    Hole. Rescue by rowboat came the following day for the men at Tom's Hill and also for those
                    who had remained on the fill.
            The floodwater crested in the 
                        Daviess
                    -
                        Knox County
                     bottomland on March 28 and began to subside the following day. Even before the water
                    began to fall, less than twenty-four hours after the 401 made its plunge to the bottom of Blue Hole,
                    a pile-driver was pushed from the shops to the hole where, despite the fearsome current, bridge
                    carpenters began the task of building a new trestle. Three days later another pile-driver, borrowed
                    from the 
                  Chicago, Burlington
                and 
                        Quincy
                    , arrived at the west bank of White River and set about sinking
                    pilings for a temporary trestle across that river. (The CB&Q machine moved from East 
                        St. Louis
                     to 
                  Lawrenceville, Illinois
               , over the B&OSW, up the Big Four to Ridge
                    Farm, 
                        Illinois
                    , eastward on the 
                  Toledo, St. Louis
                and Western to Linden, Indiana, down the
                    Monon to Gosport, from Gosport to 
                        Vincennes
                     over the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , thence to White River on the B&OSW.) On April 6 the new
                    trestle over Blue Hole was opened to traffic, that over White River on April
                        17.33
            
            Meanwhile an almost continuous search for the bodies of the four men who had gone down with the 401
                    turned up nothing. Professional divers hired by the B&OSW scanned the bottom of Blue Hole
                    and found no trace of the missing men. Then, on April 20, Raymond Leonard, walking with trainmaster
                    Stevens near Hawkins Creek (looking for the tree in which Stevens had found refuge on the night of
                    March 27), spied a piece of cloth protruding from the sand. A tug at the cloth exposed the
                    decomposed body of Reason Jackson. Indications were that Jackson had been crushed and scalded when
                    the 401's tender jackknifed into the wooden cab. Later that same day four boys were moving
                    about the area above Hawkins Creek looking for pools of water that might contain stranded fish when
                    one of the youths saw a hand protruding from the sand. It was the body of Clifford McLemore. On a
                    finger was a ring denoting the night yardmaster's membership in the Brotherhood of Railroad
                    Trainmen. Like Jackson, McLemore had died when the 401's tender smashed into the cab.34
            
            Two days later, April 22, a band of 156 men recruited at the nearby B&OSW shops assembled
                    near Hawkins Creek, 
                  
                     33
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Democrat, March 29, 31, April 7, 18, 1913; 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Capital, April 3, 1913.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Democrat, April 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 21, 26, 1913; 
                                Washington
                            
                            Gazette, April 11, 25, 1913.
               
                    
                    
                  DIVERS SEARCHING
                            FOR
                            THE BODIES
                            AT BLUE HOLE
                  
                  Reproduced from Robert K. Smith, From the 
                                    Ohio
                                 to the 
                                    Mississippi
                                
                      (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1965), [59].
                formed a line, and with six-foot metal prods began probing the sandy bottomland. Not far
                    from the point where McLemore's body had been found a workman pushed his prod far into the
                    sand, felt something strange, and called for assistance. When after considerable difficulty the
                    loose sand was scooped away, the large body of Daniel Shaffer, remarkably preserved and still
                    wrapped in his heavy overcoat, was exposed. In one of the pockets of Shaffer's trousers was
                    a rosary and a gold crucifix. The general yardmaster had died of drowning. A few hours later the
                    prod of another workman disclosed the body of Theodore Gharst. The dead engineer was under five feet
                    of loose, very wet sand, and the construction of a circular coffer dam twenty feet in
                    diameter—and several hours of pumping water and scooping sand—were required
                    before the body could be removed. Inside a pocket was Gharst's watch. It had run for
                    forty-five minutes after collapse of the trestle. Like Shaffer, Gharst had drowned.35
            
            That same day, April 22, the B&OSW restored through passenger service between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , but not through the White River bottomland. At the foot of Main
                    Street in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , passengers boarded the river steamer City of 
                            Louisville
                        
               , then cruised down the 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana. Transferred to waiting trains, they moved over B&OSW rails to 
                        North Vernon
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    , thence over the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Nashville
                     to 
                        St. Louis
                    . Near the end of the month the 
                  
                     35
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Democrat, April 23, 26, 1913; 
                                Washington
                            
                            Gazette, April 25, 1913.
               
                     B&OSW resumed eight-hour passenger service between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     over its own rails.36
            
            The last scene of the Blue Hole drama played in the first days of June, 1913: the retrieval of the
                    401. Fortunately the locomotive had fallen into the comparatively shallow northwest corner of Blue
                    Hole and, when the flood passed, was lying in barely ten feet of water. At length, workmen lashed a
                    huge chain around the boiler and frame of the 401 and to the chain attached a long cable. Next they
                    pulled the cable far down the main track toward 
                        Prairie
                     Creek and connected it to a pair of locomotives, probably Consolidations. After several
                    snappings of the cable, the churning driving wheels of the two locomotives dragged the cabless and
                    grimy hulk from the water and to the foot of the fill. From that point a wrecker was able to lift it
                    to the rails. The tender was never recovered. The locomotive was slowly pulled into the shops where
                    it was restored, given a new tender, and returned to service. Retirement of the venerable
                    Consolidation came twenty years later in 1933.37
            
            
               BRIDGE CREW REBUILDING
                            TRESTLE
                        OVER BLUE HOLE
               
               Workman in center is Emmanuel Daniels, maternal grandfather of author.
            
            
               
                  36
                        
                            Washington
                        
                        Democrat, April 22, May 3, 1913.
               
                  37
                        Ibid., June 4, 1913; 
                            Washington
                        
                        Gazette, June 6, 1913. For the retirement date of Number 401 see notation on
                        Figure 4.
            
            
            
               THE 401 BEFORE
                        THE FLOOD
               
            
            
               THE 401 AFTER
                        THE FLOOD
                        AND RECONDITIONING
               
            
            
            In the large perspective of events in the upper Ohio Valley during the great
                    flood of 1913, the incident at Blue Hole trestle on the night of March 27 did not loom particularly
                    large. Disasters elsewhere in the region were far more devastating. The high water and resultant
                    fires that ravaged 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , for example, claimed ninety-six lives and gutted large
                    areas of the city.38 Eleven people perished and hundreds of houses were
                    destroyed or damaged when the 
                        Wabash
                     raged through Peru in northern Indiana.39 Still, the tragedy at
                    Blue Hole etched itself into the consciousness of the people of the surrounding
                    area—particularly into the consciousness of the men who operated trains across the
                        White River bottomland for the next half-century and beyond. Scarcely an
                    engineman or trainman who has rolled back and forth across the Blue Hole trestle (its timber and
                    pilings now sheathed with reinforced concrete and strengthened with rock ballast that protrudes
                    above the water's surface) from 1913 to the present has not known the main points of the
                    tragedy. It seems fair to say that from time to time some of them have peered down into the murky
                    water and pondered the fate of Gharst, Jackson, McLemore, and Shaffer. As Edward Hungerford wrote in
                    reference to the four men in his history of the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , "All deaths of heroism are not those of the battlefield. The railroad has its
                    own roster of honor."40
            
            
                    We who remain, sadly mourn their death,
                    As we think of the victory, which by Death was won,
                    But to the heart-broken families thus bereft,
                    Just remember, "What is God's will shall be done."41
               
                
            
               
                  38 Henry, Floods of 1913 in the Rivers of the 
                                Ohio
                             and Lower Mississippi valleys
                  , 50–53.
               
                  39 Peru, Indiana, Daily Tribune, Bicentennial Edition,
                        July 3, 1976.
               
                  40 Hungerford, Story of the 
                                Baltimore
                             and 
                                Ohio
                             Railroad, 288.
               
                  41 Donaldson, "Tragedy at Blue Hole." The Blue Hole
                        tragedy also produced a song. The author's stepfather, Harley A. Wallace, has recalled
                        two of the verses: 
                            A mother waits now for her son
                            And a wife for her husband too,
                            But they went down with the Four-aught-one,
                            While midnight skies were blue.
                            Down with their iron steed they sank,
                            For duty called them there,
                            Their cries rang out from bank to bank,
                            All in the midnight air.
                        
                    
            
         
         
         
            Indiana History in the Public Schools: A Symposium
            For more than a decade historians and educators have expressed concerns about the status of history
                    in the public schools, often lamenting its apparent "decline." For some, part of
                    the response has been to argue that state and community history offers large possibilities for
                    invigorating the teaching of history generally. Many argue also that state history is exciting and
                    important in and of itself—for teachers and students. In Indiana, where state history
                    once thrived, such concerns led to a session on teaching Indiana history at the sixty-second Indiana
                    History Conference, November 1, 1980. The two papers presented at the session are printed below,
                    largely as they were delivered. The first is by Errol 
                        Wayne
                     Stevens, a Ph.D.-trained historian on the staff of the Indiana Historical Society. The
                    second is by Albert A. Hodge, a classroom teacher at 
                        Rushville
                     Consolidated High School. Following the two papers are commentaries by Pamela J.
                    Bennett, director, Indiana Historical Bureau; Jane Lowrie, Indiana State Department of Public
                    Instruction; and C. Frederick Risinger, coordinator for school social studies, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            Together these five people state the major problems and offer responses, perhaps solutions, to the
                    common objective of improving and expanding the teaching of Indiana history. While they do not
                    always share the same views, they agree that the challenges of teaching Indiana history should be
                    the concern of all interested in public schools and in history.
            
            Indiana History in the Junior High and Secondary School Curricula
            
                    Errol 
                            Wayne
                         Stevens
                    ∗
                
            In 1912 members of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     chapter of the Sons of the American Revolution conducted an investigation into the
                    teaching of Indiana history in the public schools. They were distressed to learn that the Indiana
                    Department of Public Instruction had no systematic program in state history. The extent to which the
                    subject was taught at all depended on the enthusiasm and knowledge of the individual teacher.1 The reason for this neglect was not so much because of a lack of interest but
                    because of a lack of materials. Herbert Briggs, one of the investigators from the 
                        Terre Haute
                     SAR and a tireless promoter of Indiana history in the schools, observed that
                    "an examination of the textbooks on 
                        United States
                     history used in the schools of the state as far back as 1860 shows that in each book an
                    average of about six words were given to the state."2
            
            The absence of Indiana history from the curriculum disturbed not only Briggs and his compatriots but
                    also others who regarded a knowledge of state history an essential element in the training of a
                    loyal citizenry. Ben F. Stuart of Delphi put it this way: "What our State needs and must
                    have to exist, is an honest, patriotic and loyal citizenship. To attain this standard, the citizens
                    must have a knowledge of the history of the State. This knowledge is just as essential to patriotism
                    as a knowledge of the Bible is to Christianity, and you can not [sic] teach
                    patriotism without teaching history any more than you can teach Christianity without teaching the
                        Bible."3 At the 1924 Indiana History Conference Mrs. Isadore Wilson
                    emphasized the morally uplifting aspects of state history: "'tis the moral effect
                    that is most wholesome. 
                        Wise
                     and becoming is it for every age to be reminded alike of its debt to the foregoing
                    generation and of its responsibility to the next. The one 
                  
                     ∗ Errol 
                                Wayne
                             Stevens is director, Indiana Guide Project, Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     1 "Proceedings of the Fifth Annual Indiana History
                            Conference, Dec. 7–8, 1923," Indiana History Bulletin,
                            I, extra number (February, 1924), 24; "Report of the Indiana Historical Commission
                            from its Organization April 24, 1915 to Dec. 1, 1916," Indiana Historical
                            Commission, Bulletin No. 7 (December, 1916), 16.
                  
                     2 "Proceedings of the Indiana History Conference,
                            1923," p. 23.
                  
                     3 "Proceedings of the Fourth Annual Conference on Indiana
                            History, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Dec. 8–9, 1922," Indiana Historical Commission, Bulletin No. 17 (February, 1923), 12.
               
                     thought saves it from the selfishness of pride, the other from
                    the selfishness of disappointment."4
            
            It was the celebration of Indiana's 100th anniversary in 1916 that gave the first big boost
                    to state and local history in the schools. In 1915 the General Assembly established the Indiana
                    Historical Commission, which was responsible for planning and carrying out the centennial
                        activities.5 The commission, along with other friends of Indiana history,
                    took several steps to do something about the lack of materials. In 1916 the county centennial
                    chairmen of the commission persuaded the Indiana State Board of Education to approve an Indiana
                    history supplement to the regular American history textbook.6 The Educational
                    Committee of the commission worked with the Department of Public Instruction to prepare an outline
                    for a course of study in Indiana history for grades one through eight. The department published this
                    outline in the Uniform Course of Study for the Elementary Schools for the
                    1916–1917 school year.7 As an aid to teachers the History Section of
                    the Indiana State Teachers' Association sponsored a volume entitled Readings
                        in Indiana History, published by Indiana University and distributed at reasonable cost.8 In recognition of the importance of state history in the centennial year, the
                    superintendent of public instruction required all township and city institutes in the
                    1915–1916 school year to deal with some phase of Indiana history.9
            
            All of this activity did much to encourage the teaching of Indiana history, but much remained to be
                    done. In 1916 the historical commission reported that "an interest in Indiana and her
                    history has been awakened in all our educational institutions," 
                  
                     4 "Proceedings of the Sixth Annual Indiana History
                            Conference, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Dec. 5–6, 1924," Indiana History
                            Bulletin, II, extra number (February, 1925), 44–45.
                  
                     5 Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The
                                Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 539.
                  
                     6 "Report of the Indiana Historical Commission,"
                            16–17. Jacob Piatt Dunn, recording secretary of the Indiana Historical Society,
                            prepared the supplement. Jacob Piatt Dunn, History of Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1916).
                  
                     7 James A. Woodburn, "The Indiana Historical Commission and
                            Plans for the Centennial," Indiana Magazine of History, XI
                            (December, 1915), 342; Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, Uniform
                                Course of Study for the Elementary Schools of Indiana, 1916–1917 (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , 1916), 189–98.
                  
                     8 Woodburn, "Indiana Historical Commission and Plans for the
                            Centennial," 342; Committee of the History Section of the Indiana State
                            Teachers' Association, ed., Readings in Indiana History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1914).
                  
                     9
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                            Times, July 26, 1915, in Indiana Historical Commission,
                            "Newspaper Clippings, April 1915-Jan. 1916" (Indiana Division, Indiana
                            State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
                     but the report also noted that it "would be idle to
                    claim that such study was nearly universal."10 Referring to the new
                    Indiana supplement to the American history textbook, Briggs noted that some "teachers heard
                    of the chapter, a few made use of it. It was a good start and broke through a hundred years of
                    lethargy and inactivity. But as a statewide system it was an incident rather than an integral and
                    coherent part of the state school machinery."11
            
            In 1919 the Society of Indiana Pioneers called a special conference of all state agencies interested
                    in the study of Indiana history. This was the first annual Indiana History Conference. The meeting
                    reopened the question of the status of Indiana history in the schools by authorizing the president
                    of the Society of Indiana Pioneers to name a committee to approach the State Board of Education
                    concerning the teaching of the subject.12 The committee made five
                    recommendations to the board, which, after some study, adopted all of them at its regular meeting on
                    February 13, 1920. First, the board agreed to divide the time devoted to history at the eighth grade
                    level between 
                        United States
                     history, Indiana history, and local history. A study of the state government was to be
                    included in the course on Indiana history. Second, the board ordered the superintendent of public
                    instruction to distribute to the schools a list of questions on Indiana history. These questions
                    were to test the students' knowledge of Indiana history and to provide a basis for
                    promotion to the upper grades. All diplomas granted graduates from the common schools were to have
                    space alloted for credits in the study of state history. Third, the board agreed to continue the
                    special supplement on Indiana history when the American history textbook came up for adoption in
                        1921.13
                    
                  
                     10 "Report of the Indiana Historical Commission,"
                            16.
                  
                     11 "Proceedings of the Indiana History Conference,
                            1923," p. 25.
                  
                     12 The organizations represented at the first Indiana State History
                            Conference were the Society of Indiana Pioneers, Indiana Historical Society, Indiana
                            Historical Commission, Indiana State Library, Indiana Conservation Commission, and Indiana
                            Library Association. "Proceedings of the State History Conference, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Dec. 10–11, 1919," Indiana Historical Commission, Bulletin No. 11 (May, 1920), 5. The committee named to approach the board
                            included Professor James A. Woodburn of Indiana University, Professor Thomas F. Moran of
                            Purdue University, 
                                Virginia
                             Tutt of the 
                                South Bend
                             Public Library, Kate Milner Rabb of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and Herbert Briggs. "Proceedings of the Second Annual State History
                            Conference, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Dec. 10–11, 1920," Indiana Historical Commission, Bulletin No. 13 (May, 1921), 32.
                  
                     13 In 1921 the board replaced Dunn's chapter with a new one
                            prepared by Professors Woodburn and Moran. "Proceedings of the Eighth Annual
                            Indiana History Conference, Dec. 10–11, 1926," Indiana
                                History Bulletin, IV, extra no. 2 (April, 1927), 13; James Albert Woodburn and
                            Thomas Francis Moran, Elementary
                        
               
                     Fourth, the board directed the superintendent of public
                    instruction to prepare and distribute to teachers an outline of the Indiana history supplement.14 Fifth, the board recognized the creation of an advisory committee on state
                    and local history appointed by the president of the Society of Indiana Pioneers. Its "sole
                    purpose and function" was to "persuade city and town superintendents, county
                    superintendents of schools, township trustees, and teachers, and other persons to co-operate in an
                    effort to develop State and Local History."15
            
            Thus by 1920 a pattern had been established that would remain unchanged to the present time. When the
                    subject has been taught at all, Indiana history has normally been part of the junior high school
                    curriculum—either at the seventh or eighth grade level, but most commonly at the eighth.
                    The rationale for this was that since most students did not continue through high school in 1920,
                    the eighth grade was the best (and last) opportunity to teach them the subject.16
            
            One should not assume that students received a great deal of instruction in Indiana history simply
                    because the State Board of Education made the subject part of the eighth grade curriculum. It should
                    be noted that the board did not specify how much time was to be spent on Indiana history. Although
                    the Digest of State Courses of Study recommended that a semester be devoted to
                    Indiana history and civics, a school could spend a day, a week, or a semester on the subject and
                    still meet the board's directive.17 The board did demand some
                    proficiency in Indiana history by making some knowledge of the subject a condition of graduation
                    from the common schools, but graduation from grade eight was soon to be a thing of the past in 
                  
                     American History and Government, with Indiana supplement (
                                New York
                            , 1919).
                  
                     14 "Proceedings of the Seventh Annual Indiana History
                            Conference, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Dec. 11–12, 1925," Indiana History
                            Bulletin, III, extra no. 2 (March, 1926), 54. The outline was distributed as Section
                            III of the Indiana State Teachers' Institute bulletin in August, 1925. Indiana,
                            State Department of Public Instruction, Teacher Training in Indiana
                                Teachers' Institutes, 1925–26 (Education Bulletin No. 76; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1925).
                  
                     15 "Proceedings of the State History Conference,
                            1920," pp. 32–34; "Minutes of the State Board of Education,
                            Jan. 16, 1920" (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). These instructions went out to teachers in the 1922–1923 teachers
                            institute bulletin. Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, The
                                Township and City Institute in Indiana, 1922–23: Manual of Institute
                                Discussion Topics and Extension Courses for Credit (Education Bulletin No. 58,
                            Teacher Training Series No. 7; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922).
                  
                     16 "Proceedings of the Indiana History Conference,
                            1923," p. 24.
                  
                     17 Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, Program of Studies and Digest of State Courses of Study for Indiana Schools, Grades
                                Kindergarten to Twelve (supplement to Bulletin 100; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1930), 35.
               
                     Indiana. As more and more students went on to high school and as
                    the junior high school system expanded, an eighth grade diploma became a meaningless formality. The
                        Administrative Handbook for Indiana High Schools for the year 1928 makes no
                    mention of graduation from grade eight.18 All that we can conclude, therefore,
                    is that by the early 1920s Indiana eighth grade students were getting some instruction in state
                    history. Exactly how much depended on the school and the teacher.
            I should mention here that during the 1920s and 1930s the state legislature passed two laws that
                    assured that at least some Indiana history—in very incomplete form—would be
                    taught in both the junior high and secondary schools. In 1925 the General Assembly required that all
                    schools, in grades six through twelve, "provide instruction in the constitutions of Indiana
                    and of the 
                        United States
                    ." Ten years later it mandated all high schools to provide a required study of
                    "the historical, political, civic, sociological, economic and philosophical aspects of the
                    constitutions of Indiana and of the 
                        United States
                    ." Both of these laws are on the books today. Of course, teaching about the
                    state constitution does not require much history, but the laws do provide an entering wedge, or at
                    least an excuse, for some instruction in Indiana history.19
            
            From the 1920s to the present it is possible to trace the emphasis that the State Department of
                    Public Instruction has placed on the teaching of Indiana history through the various outlines of
                    courses that the department has published. Again, I must point out that these outlines are merely
                    recommendations to the schools as to what a course might contain. In practice there has been
                    considerable variation in the amount of time that a school may devote to the subject; therefore, the
                    outlines suggest more what the DPI wanted to see taught rather than what actually was taught.
                    Nevertheless, I think that we can assume that a large percentage of schools followed the
                    guidelines—if for no other reason than that it is the easiest thing to do.
            Throughout the 1920s the State Department of Public Instruction continued to recommend that the
                    second semester of the eighth grade be devoted to "Indiana History and the state and
                    federal constitutions."20 In 1933 the department issued a 
                  
                     18 Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, Administrative Handbook for Indiana High Schools (Bulletin No. 100, 1928; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1929).
                  
                     19
                            Burns Indiana Statues Annotated, Code Edition, Title 20, Article 10, pp.
                            9, 12.
                  
                     20 Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, Program of Studies (1930), 35.
               
                     revised social studies curriculum. Under the new scheme Indiana
                    history was still taught at the eighth grade, but the time to be spent on the subject was much
                    reduced. The eighth grade American history course was divided into fourteen units, each of which
                    focused on some aspect of social, economic, or political history. Indiana history was one of these
                    units, the title of which adequately describes its theme: "How Indiana Has Influenced and
                    Is Reflecting American Life." The unit drew inordinately on the state's early
                    period for illustrations and examples. It included material on the Old Northwest, pioneer life,
                    geography, transportation, urbanization, and Indiana's war
                        "achievements."21
            
            In 1946 the State Department of Public Instruction announced a second revision of the social studies
                        curriculum.22 The authors of the new program, the General Committee on
                    Social Studies, believed that several important developments in American society had made revision
                    of the curriculum necessary. "Society is dynamic," the report observed,
                        "ergo—the school curriculum, which reflects the
                    aspirations and highest ideals of society, cannot be static." The report listed the most
                    important societal changes as industrialization, urbanization, changes in family life, changes in
                    attitudes toward race and religion, the increase in school enrollments, and "the force of
                    recent events"—an obvious reference to America's role in World War II.23
            
            How did state and local history fit into the new program? The committee accepted the principle that
                    children's consciousness expanded outward from their immediate surroundings—
                    home, school, neighborhood—to the larger world—community, state, nation,
                    world. The course of study was designed to reinforce this natural progression. Local and state
                    history, therefore, was concentrated—much as it is today—in the earlier
                    grades, but the authors of the program were careful to emphasize that the study of local and state
                    history should not be "limited to the first three or four grades." Local examples
                    were to be utilized whenever possible to illustrate national and world trends. "There is no
                    terminus for the study of Indiana," the authors of the program stressed. "The
                    history, the resources 
                  
                     21 Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, Tentative Course of Study in Social Studies for Secondary Schools in Indiana, Grades
                                7–12 (Bulletin No. 100B-3; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 5–7, 9–13, 73–79.
                  
                     22 Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, A
                                Social Studies Program for Indiana (Bulletin No. 183; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1946).
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 3–5.
               
                     and industry, the cultural life of the state of Indiana are
                    inextricably interwoven with those of other areas, and the nation, and the world community.
                    Attention should be directed to this fact at every opportunity."24 The
                    new program demoted Indiana history from grade eight to grade seven. One of the objectives of the
                    seventh grade American history course was to "gain an understanding of the important role
                    that the state of Indiana has played, and is still playing, in the history and economy of our
                    nation." The new course of study also recommended that Indiana history be offered as a
                    one-semester elective at grades eleven or twelve.25
            
            During the late 1940s and early 1950s Indiana history was clearly on the wane. The 1954 Digest of Courses of Study barely mentioned the subject at all.26 In
                    that year the Schools Committee of the Indiana Historical Society became concerned enough to try to
                    do something about the decline. The committee sponsored the preparation of teaching units, put
                    together packets of material on Indiana history, and made them available to school libraries and
                    history teachers. It also lobbied for legislation requiring that Indiana history be taught in the
                    secondary schools—an effort which came to nothing. In an attempt to determine just how
                    widely the subject was taught, the committee sent approximately one thousand questionnaires to the
                    state's public and private schools. Eighty-five percent of the 348 forms returned reported
                    at least some instruction in Indiana history. The subject was most commonly taught at the eighth
                    grade level. Probably the most revealing finding was that the subject was more popular in the
                    smaller rural schools than in the larger urban ones. State history apparently had the greatest
                    appeal in those schools that had the most traditional curricula and that were least susceptible to
                    new trends in the social studies.27
            
            In 1960 State Superintendent of Public Instruction William E. Wilson appointed a committee to
                    recommend yet another revision in the social studies. This revision was approved by the 
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 16.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 24; Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, Digest of Courses of Study for Secondary Schools of Indiana (Bulletin No. 210; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1949), 71, 91.
                  
                     26 Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, Digest of Courses of Study for Secondary Schools of Indiana (Bulletin No. 217; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954).
                  
                     27
                            Indiana History Bulletin, XXXI (January, 1954), 24–25, XXXII
                            (January, 1955), 23, XXXII (July, 1955), 130, XXXIII (September, 1956), 125; Schools
                            Committee of the Indiana Historical Society, Teaching Units (
                                Indianapolis
                            , n.d.).
               
                     Commission on General Education in 1965.28 A
                    new course in "Area Studies of the Non-West" was instituted at grade seven. The
                    State Department of Public Instruction recommended that Indiana history be integrated into the
                    American history course to be offered at grade eight. The Commission on General Education also
                    approved Indiana history as an elective on the secondary level.29
            
            At about the same time other efforts were underway to improve the teaching of Indiana history. In
                    1961 Superintendent Wilson, himself an Indiana history buff, issued a Handbook on
                        Indiana History to assist teachers in preparing courses. At its 1964 convention the Indiana
                    Junior Historical Society passed the first in a series of resolutions calling for legislation that
                    would make Indiana history a required subject in the secondary schools. In 1967 such a bill passed
                    the Indiana House of Representatives but died in the Senate education committee.30
            
            There have been no major revisions of the social studies curriculum since 1965, although course
                    offerings have been modified in response to changing needs. Increasing emphasis has been placed on
                    the racial and ethnic diversity of America and on the importance of a global perspective in an
                    increasingly shrinking world. These changes have not favored the teaching of Indiana history. Until
                    1979 the list of approved electives for the social studies included numerous interdisciplinary
                    courses in Asian studies, African studies, current problems, and ethnic studies, but nothing in
                    Indiana history. (The Indiana history elective approved in 1965 was apparently dropped sometime
                    shortly afterward.) There is no question that the teaching of Indiana history has been on the wane
                    since the late 1960s. One explanation for this decline is that the subject has been crowded out of
                    the curriculum by interdisciplinary offerings. A second and probably more pertinent explanation is
                        
                  
                     28 "Interim Report of the State Committee for the Revision of
                            the Social Studies," 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, April 23, 1963, mimeographed report, I (Indiana Division);
                            "Minutes of the Commission on General Education, May 14, 1965," V (April
                            8, 1965-March 10, 1967), 3 (Archives Divison, Indiana Commission on Public Records).
                  
                     29 Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, Area
                                Studies of the Non-West, Grade 7: A Curriculum Guide (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1969); Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, 
                        
                                    United States
                                 History, Grade 8 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1969); "Minutes of the Commission on General Education, July 9,
                            1965," V, 3.
                  
                     30 Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, Handbook on Indiana History (Bulletin No. 245; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1961); "Historical Legislation," Indiana
                                History Bulletin, XLIV (January, 1967), 4; Indiana, Senate
                            Journal (1967), 230.
               
                     that the lack of adequate materials has made it extremely
                    difficult for teachers to offer a decent course in the subject.31
            
            A bright spot on the horizon is the new course in Indiana studies which the Commission on General
                    Education approved in 1979. This course is a secondary-level elective described as an
                    "integrated program comparing and contrasting the nation's development with that
                    of Indiana" in the areas of "politics, economics, and history." It
                    utilizes history "as a basis for understanding current policies and practices to aid the
                    student in examining local government in action, follow state legislative procedures and be
                    motivated to participate in political action as a concerned citizen."32
                    The State Department of Public Instruction designed the course to meet the requirements of the 1935
                    state law that mandated a study of the state and federal constitutions covering the
                    "historical, political, civic, sociological, economic and philosophical aspects of the
                        subjects."33 How such a course might operate in practice depends on
                    how the State Department of Public Instruction and the individual teacher interpret the law. If the
                    course focuses on government and the processes of government, it may well leave out much that is
                    essential for an understanding of how Indiana has developed. Because of this uncertainty, I feel
                    that the course should not be viewed as a substitute for a traditional course in Indiana history,
                    but as a supplement.
            Should we be satisfied with the place of Indiana history in the schools today? To answer this
                    question properly one must view the subject within the context of the social studies program in
                    general. Since World War II the social studies have increasingly emphasized the importance of a
                    world view in understanding American society. The State Department of Public Instruction's
                    social studies curriculum development guide stresses that American culture must be understood
                    "within the context of a treatment of other cultures, societies and nations, for the
                    reality is the growing interdependence between the 
                        United States
                     and all other nations."34 I think that this is a healthy
                    trend, but I submit that there is a tension between this global perspective and the study of local
                        history.35
                    
                  
                     31 510 Indiana Administrative Code
                            4–2–5 (1979 edition).
                  
                     32 Memorandum, John A. Harrold, director, Division of Curriculum on
                            General Education. August 24, 1979, photocopy in possession of the author; see also Viewpoints, extra number (November 19, 1977).
                  
                     33
                            Burns Indiana Statutes Annotated, Code Edition, Title 20, Article 10, p.
                            12.
                  
                     34 Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, Social Studies: A Guide for Curriculum Development (
                                Indianapolis
                            , n.d.), p. B-6.
                  
                     35 C. Frederick Risinger, "Trends in Social Studies
                            Education: It's Our Responsibility," Viewpoints, IV,
                            issue 2 (November, 1976), 6–7.
               
                     Some champions of local history have gone so far as to condemn
                    the study of the history of other countries. Ben F. Stuart said in 1922 that the study of Indiana
                    history was superior to "a life study of all the debauched and corrupt monarchs and rotten
                    monarchies of the old world. Hence I would eliminate much of the latter and substitute the
                        former."36 But most have rejected this untenable position and have
                    argued instead that while the study of other cultures was important, the study of state and local
                    history was essential. In 1916 the report of the Indiana Historical Commission noted that whatever
                    "an individual's knowledge of the world and in history in general, his education
                    and culture cannot in any wise be called complete unless he knows his own State and immediate
                    community, the past out of which they have developed, and the present which so vitally affects him
                    and his neighbors."37 More recently, Donald F. Carmony recognized the
                    "need for increased study of other countries" but emphasized that "both
                    children and adults need increased knowledge and understanding of the history of their own state and
                    country. Persons who lack such information and understanding are inadequately informed citizens of
                    their state and country, no matter how informed they may be about other areas of the
                        world."38
            
            Despite the tension between them, global studies and local studies are not mutally exclusive, but
                    complementary. We need to show students how events in distant parts of the globe can have a direct
                    impact on how we live in Indiana. We also need to show them how our own historical experience has
                    conditioned our responses to these larger events. The challenge, therefore, is to find the proper
                    balance between global and local studies so that they reinforce one another.
            A second trend in the social studies is the realization that the 
                        United States
                     is a pluralistic society, not only in terms of the ethnic and racial backgrounds of
                    individual Americans but in terms of values. The new social studies recognizes that conflict and
                    diversity are normal parts of American society. This has not been the case with state and local
                    history as traditionally taught or written. Indiana history has been the domain of the white
                    Anglo-Saxon Protestant, and its subject matter has been drawn primarily from the frontier period of
                    our state when its population was, in fact, nearly homogeneous. Until recently, very little
                    attention has been given to blacks and 
                  
                     36 "Proceedings of the Indiana History Conference,
                            1922," p. 13.
                  
                     37 "Report of the Indiana Historical Commission,"
                            16.
                  
                     38
                            Handbook on Indiana History, p. v.
               
                     other ethnic groups. In the same way, there has been no
                    recognition that different groups of Hoosiers have followed different value systems. Those who
                    championed local history at the beginning of the century knew what they believed in and saw local
                    history as a means of teaching important moral lessons. They emphasized the qualities which they
                    thought they saw in the early frontiersmen—courage, resourcefulness, individualism,
                    devotion to the family, and belief in Protestant Christianity.
            Teachers of local history must recognize that America is a diverse society and rise above the
                    provincialism that has characterized the subject. The study of racial, ethnic, and religious
                    minorities must be integrated into state and local history. Teachers should also realize that
                    Indiana history did not end with the Civil War. In correcting this image of America as a homogeneous
                    society, we should be careful to avoid creating the illusion of a fragmented society. We do not want
                    to trade courses full of WASP trivia for courses full of ethnic trivia. There is the danger of
                    opening new horizons of provincialism. Local history must show how these disparate elements of our
                    society have come together to make a nation.
            State and local history's greatest value comes when it shows how local events fit into the
                    whole. Local history is a kind of "case study" of the larger forces that are at
                    work in American society. One commentator advocated the study of Indiana in these words:
                    "It is as though some great eye had scanned American history and had plucked a sampling
                    from each era and episode, placed it in a neat little bundle, and called it ‘Indiana
                    History.’ To open that bundle is to plug the water melon [sic] of
                    American history; its [sic] like tasting the cake, or sampling the
                        wine."39 In other words, local history helps us Find the universal
                    in the specific.
            The study of state and local history can also make concrete what might otherwise seem hopelessly
                    abstract to the student. The Uniform Course of Study for the Elementary Schools,
                        1914–15 puts it this way: "The study of local history is important
                    … because such study helps to make all history real."40 We
                    can think of state history as a kind of laboratory course. In every community there are physical
                    legacies from the past that can be used to illustrate larger historical topics. The question is
                    whether or not teachers have enough knowledge, or energy, to make use of them.
            
               
                  39 Indiana Council for the Social Studies, Newsletter
                        (October, 1967), 3.
               
                  40 Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, Uniform
                            Course of Study for the Elementary Schools of Indiana, 1914–15 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1914), 150.
            
            
            How should state history fit into the curriculum? First, it should be integrated wherever appropriate
                    into other course offerings to illustrate local manifestations of larger trends. I refer not only to
                    the traditional American history courses but to other disciplines such as economics, sociology, and
                    government. Second, as a separate course Indiana history should be taught after
                    the students have a firm grounding in American history. The proper place for such a course,
                    therefore, is in the senior high school, not in the eighth grade. Students must understand the
                    larger forces at work in the world before they can appreciate their impact on the state or their
                    communities. Otherwise, courses in local history are reduced to exercises in trivia.
            We do not need any great changes in the curriculum to accomplish these goals. I would like to see a
                    secondary-level elective in Indiana history added to the social studies program; in the meantime we
                    can make do with the new course in Indiana studies. The real obstacle that we must overcome is the
                    lack of good Indiana history materials for both teachers and students. As Herbert Briggs pointed out
                    in 1919, teachers "are willing to teach those things that are available but few persons in
                    the public schools have an opportunity to spend several hours in organizing facts."41 We cannot ask teachers to integrate state history into their courses and
                    teach a new one in Indiana studies unless they have the means to do it. The challenge before us
                    today is the production of new textbooks and supplementary materials in Indiana history.
            What We Need for Indiana History
            
                    Albert A. Hodge
                    ∗
                
            As a high school social studies teacher and department chairman, I have found the resurgent interest
                    in the teaching of state and local history in the past few years interesting and encouraging. Having
                    grown up in 
                        New Harmony
                     and having had an eighth grade Indiana history class there, I did not 
                  
                     41 "Proceedings of the Indiana History Conference,
                            1919," p. 38.
                  
                     ∗ Albert A. Hodge is chairman, History Department, 
                                Rushville
                             Consolidated High School, 
                                Rushville
                            , Indiana. He has been the sponsor of the 
                                Rushville
                             High School chapter of the Indiana Junior Historical Society for fourteen
                            years.
               
                     realize until I had been teaching for several years how little
                    most students, and more significantly most teachers, know about Hoosier heritage and history.
                    Perhaps I was naive about the status of state history education twenty years ago. As I reflect on
                    it, DePauw University, my alma mater, did not offer Indiana history, and I picked up a class one
                    summer at 
                        Vincennes
                     University. By the way, it was at that 
                        Vincennes
                     class that I met Robert W. Montgomery, then director of the Indiana Junior Historical
                    Society, an event which had considerable ramifications. But I suppose that is another story.
            This paper is an outgrowth of a presupposition that having the opportunity to learn about
                    one's local and state history is a desirable opportunity for junior high and high school
                    students. I am keenly aware that the curricula of most high schools are so extensive that many
                    college-preparatory students do not have time in their schedules for classes they would like to
                    take. In the recent past in preparing for this paper, I have had discussions with some outstanding
                    authorities in the field of Indiana history who see a need for making a class in Indiana history a
                    requirement for graduation in our state. My contention is that an elective offering is preferable to
                    a required course. My reasoning is that social studies requirements in Indiana are already
                    extensive; so I am assuming that if state history were required, it would be at the expense of a
                    currently required social studies class. I also believe, after fifteen years of teaching, that
                    forcing students to be in classes they do not want to take is usually counterproductive, isolated
                    contradictory examples notwithstanding. I believe in the old cliche about leading a horse to water.
                    It has also been my experience that if a class is well taught by an enthusiastic teacher who is
                    conscious of keeping the course meaningful to the students and "selling" students
                    on the worth of the class, then enrollment will be stable or growing. When we have had classes fail
                    in our department at 
                        Rushville
                     High School, it has been the outgrowth of dull teaching or failure to establish
                    relevance. I do think that it would be much more productive to work toward the restoration of a full
                    semester of Indiana history at the eighth grade level.
            As you know, state history is now presented at the fourth grade level. While I am not an elementary
                    teacher, I have been invited on several occasions to speak to fourth grade classes. I honestly
                    question if any teacher can present several of the most significant topics in Indiana history at a
                    meaningful level to fourth graders. If you doubt my judgment on this, I challenge you to go talk
                    about Utopian socialism, the millennium, and  celibate communal
                    living at Harmonie and 
                        New Harmony
                     in a fourth grade classroom.
            There are several schools that do still present at least a six-to-nine-week unit on Indiana history
                    at the junior high level. One of the major points of this paper is to assert that before the Indiana
                    State Department of Public Instruction or the Indiana General Assembly is pushed to restore a
                    significant junior high state history requirement or to establish a high school course, attention
                    and money must be given to the development of a text and audiovisual materials as well as to the
                    training of teachers for Indiana history.
            Before turning to training and materials per se, we should consider another point.
                    In the past twenty years while the teaching of state and local history has been declining in the
                    classroom, there has been a concomitant mushrooming of interest in extracurricular activities
                    through the History Day competitions and the Indiana Junior Historical Society. Currently, these
                    activities are being directed through the Indiana Historical Bureau as a part of its responsibility
                    to support education in Indiana history. It seems that now we are considering how we can reestablish
                    Indiana history in the classroom with the same verve and success it enjoys outside the classroom.
                    The motto of the Indiana Junior Historical Society is "History Is Fun." I would
                    submit that with a well-structured set of materials and with well-trained, enthusiastic teachers, an
                    elective high school class in Indiana history can and should be fun.
            At 
                        Rushville
                     High School we instituted an elective one-semester class in Indiana history eight or
                    nine years ago. The class is open to any student, freshman through senior, but is aimed for average
                    to below-average students. If you have been wondering about that, our thinking was that most
                    college-preparatory kids were not looking for more alternatives while our offerings for noncollege
                    kids were very thin. It is interesting to note that most students who take Indiana history are not
                    people who belong to our history club. It was our intention to obtain junior high level texts to use
                    in this class. We quickly learned that no such books were available. Even Hubert H. Hawkins, then
                    director of the Indiana Historical Bureau, was unable to find us a set of texts. We could not even
                    get a set of used books. In the interim, Hawkins supplied a variety of materials published by the
                    bureau and a classroom set of readings in Indiana history. Finally we bought a set of William E.
                    Wilson's Indiana: A History from the Indiana University Press (
                        Bloomington
                    , 1966). The book was never intended as a text and is not satisfactory for classroom
                    use. Our program has  endured from the first through the efforts
                    of the teachers who have taught it.
            As alluded to earlier, one of the most basic needs for a worthwhile statewide program of teaching
                    Indiana history at the secondary level is the training of teachers. At one time Indiana colleges and
                    universities were forced to offer a class in Indiana history because teachers must have had the
                    class to get a certificate to teach history here. Today many of the private colleges and
                    universities no longer offer a state history class. Before much can be done in the public school
                    classrooms, we must return to training history teachers in Indiana history. Very few Hoosier history
                    teachers under the age of forty have any background in state history from their college training. In
                    turn, one might then consider the need for an updated college level text beyond John D. Barnhart and
                    Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (
                        New York
                    , 1954). But that is another topic, I suppose.
            Of more immediate concern to this paper is the crying need for text materials at both the high school
                    and junior high levels. Beyond Carmony's Brief History of Indiana (64
                    pages) from the Indiana Historical Bureau or Here Is Your Indiana Government
                    published periodically by the Indiana State Chamber of Commerce, I am not aware of any textbook for
                    Indiana history still in print for use above the fourth grade. It seems very unlikely that any
                    commercial publisher of textbooks will prepare an Indiana history text. By the standards of modern
                    publishing we constitute far too small a market to be profitable. Thus, some Hoosier agency, the
                    Historical Society, the Historical Bureau, the Indiana Committee for the Humanities, the Indiana
                    Council for the Social Studies, or one of the state universities will almost certainly need to
                    subsidize the publication.
            Last year a grant was given by the Lilly Endowment to the Indiana Council for the Social Studies to
                    begin work on a new text. Under the leadership of C. Fred Risinger, coordinator for school social
                    studies, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , a committee of real-live classroom teachers was selected from around the state to work
                    for several weeks in 
                        Bloomington
                     on the initial draft of a new text in Indiana studies. Their approach varies from the
                    traditional history book in a couple of significant ways. First, there is an emphasis on political
                    and governmental information. The intent here is an intertwining of history and information about
                    current state government. In other words, this new book might serve as a history text and as a
                    substitute for the Chamber of Commerce's Here Is Your Indiana
                    
                    Government. This governmental emphasis was, at least in part, a reaction to a bill
                    from the General Assembly a few years ago supporting an elective, high school class in Indiana
                    studies.
            A second unique characteristic of the ICSS project is the inclusion of many student activities, built
                    into the text. As Risinger pointed out when he presented a sample of the project to the 
                        Rushville
                     social studies teachers, the format is intended to keep students active participants in
                    the learning process, a point where many history and government texts fail.
            A third feature of this new effort, which we liked in the sample we saw, was a first-person
                    fictionalized account through the eyes of a young person. These segments, I understand, would appear
                    throughout the text for different time periods. It is hoped that these first-person accounts can
                    arouse the same sort of student interest as actual oral history accounts do of recent historical
                    events. Another feature which we liked is that much attention is given to recent events and to
                    profiles of famous Hoosiers, but these same features will make it necessary to update the text every
                    few years. Nothing turns kids off more than working with outdated material, even in history.
            While I have read only a fragmentary sample of this new Indiana studies material, I found it
                    interesting to read and clearly a step in the right direction. I am certain that purists in Indiana
                    history will find fault with the political-governmental emphasis, and they will have a valid point.
                    I am sure that Risinger and the teachers who worked on the project would agree that this is not a
                    perfect, definitive text. But as a classroom teacher, I would be quick to point out that this
                    material has to be better than what we have now since we have nothing now. I would strongly
                    recommend to the Committee for the Social Studies that both the Indiana Historical Society and the
                    Indiana Historical Bureau be given a full text of the work and asked for their input before a final
                    edition is locked in. It would be sad indeed if such a well-intentioned project failed to utilize
                    the resources and expertise of any and all groups concerned with improving the teaching of our
                    Hoosier history. I would also counsel both the society and the bureau to be as positive and
                    supportive as possible in cooperating with Risinger's group since its work is at the very
                    least a good starting point. At this point, when those of us out in the classrooms have no text
                    material to work with, we do not want to see groups with a similarly honest desire to meet our need
                    competing instead of cooperating. I am hopeful that we will be able to use the material on a trial
                    run in our 
                        Rushville
                     High School Indiana  history class in 1981. At any
                    rate, it is safe to say that all the groups are aware of the need for a new text and want to see the
                    need met.
            Another suggestion discussed by those of us on the long-range planning and development committee of
                    the Indiana Historical Society is a one-volume condensation or summation of the society's
                    multivolume history of the state. Obviously the first major obstacle to overcome with that idea is
                    for the remaining two volumes in the original project to be completed. A one-volume compilation
                    would be excellent for better high school students and for the much needed college-level classes,
                    but in my opinion it should not be set up as a text book per se, with review
                    questions at the end of each chapter and rigidly outlined structure.
            A third concept for a publication that I think would be a boon in teaching state and local history
                    would be a book of reprints of selected articles from the Indiana Magazine of
                    History. I propose that such a book should be set up to follow chronological teaching units and
                    be part of an overall package with review material, tests, and activities program. It might be that
                    this volume of reprints could serve as "outside reading" to accompany the text
                    from the Committee for the Social Studies to balance its governmental emphasis, making a
                    well-rounded set and partially relieving the historical purists' doubts about the
                    "Indiana studies" approach. It seems to me that a committee made up of Indiana
                    Historical Society staff members along with someone from the Indiana Historical Bureau and classroom
                    teachers could select, edit, and tie together such a set of articles from the Indiana
                        Magazine of History in a relatively short time. Certainly this approach would be more
                    expedient than an entirely original work for classroom use.
            The final item of concern I have on this topic of what we need if we are to do a creditable job of
                    teaching Indiana history is that any printed material be accompanied by a coordinated package of
                    supplementary materials. People who do not teach may not realize how important supplementary
                    packages such as student activity projects, tests, vocabulary lists, and review summaries are or how
                    often they make the difference in which text is selected for purchase. My thinking here is that even
                    in fairly large schools Indiana history is not likely to be a full-time teaching assignment. In most
                    cases a teacher is not going to have more than one or two sections of it a day out of five or six he
                    is teaching. Thus, he cannot or will not give it an extensive amount of preparation time outside of
                    class. Unless the teacher has a good background already, he is likely to rely  very heavily on the "package" to know something more
                    than the students who have the text. It may well be that a publication of suggested student projects
                    and activities could be compiled fairly easily from the activities and projects conducted over the
                    years by the history clubs. Reports of these activities are submitted annually to the Indiana Junior
                    Historical Society and are on file in their state office.
            Of much greater value than any printed supplementary materials, however, would be the creation of a
                    set of audiovisual materials to accompany any class in Indiana history. During the years I have
                    taught, undoubtedly the greatest change in education has been the utilization by classroom teachers
                    of video-taped television programs. My feeling is that a videotape does not have to be terribly good
                    to show kids more than I can with a traditional lecture format. At its best a series of videotapes
                    could do for Indiana what Alistaire Cooke's America series did for 
                        United States
                     history. To be worthwhile such a series of tapes would have to be done professionally
                    by a team of teachers, historians, and technicians. I most certainly am not espousing a set of
                    recordings of someone else using a traditional lecture method. I intend the programs to show
                    locations and artifacts a great majority of the time. You will notice that I have said videotapes,
                    not movies. If you are not familiar with the current situation in audiovisual materials, let me
                    assure you that the video casette is easier to use, familiar now to almost all teachers, and most
                    importantly, a great deal less expensive than sixteen millimeter films to produce. Movies have
                    become terribly expensive even to rent for classroom use. There are a couple of acceptable
                    alternatives to videotape which would be even less expensive. These would be automated sound
                    filmstrips or slide-tape combinations.
            Any number of local, amateur audiovisual productions in Indiana history have been produced by history
                    clubs, county historical societies, and teachers over the years. While most of them are of a subject
                    matter and quality which probably would limit them to local consumption, they would at least suggest
                    many areas of interest for a professionally written and produced series. A few professionally made
                    programs such as "The Guns of September" from Hook's Drugs on
                    Indiana's role in the Civil War may be ready now to be incorporated into an overall program
                    series. It might well be that the Indiana Historical Society should undertake the production of a
                    series of sound filmstrips, videotapes, or slide-tape programs based on their own publications.
                    These could be supplied to county or local historical societies as well as to schools; and I cannot
                    imagine  anyone teaching Indiana history not wanting color-sound
                    programs like The House of the Singing Winds, From Paddle Wheels to Propellers, Indiana
                        Houses of the Nineteenth Century, Alloys and Automobiles, 
                            Indianapolis
                         from Our Old Corner, or the Walam Olum to show to his
                    students. And of course there could be programs on the diaries of Calvin Fletcher that would take a
                    student's entire high school career to see.
            In conclusion, as a history teacher and department chairman, I can attest to the dearth of both
                    teachers and materials for state and local history above the fourth grade level. I am confident,
                    based on the successes of History Day projects and the history clubs, that with good materials,
                    presented enthusiastically by a well-trained teacher, student interest will be generated and be
                    reflected in student enrollment in elective high school Hoosier history or Indiana studies classes.
                    What remains to be seen is whether the Indiana Historical Society, the Indiana Council for the
                    Social Studies, the Indiana Historical Bureau, and any other groups who recognize the legitimacy of
                    the need can work together to produce meaningful changes in teacher training and in instructional
                    materials.
            How important is it that we reach the students in our schools with the story of their Hoosier
                    heritage? How important is it that we reverse the commonly held adolescent view that Indiana is a
                    place to move away from as quickly as you are old enough? How important is it that students
                    recognize that we did not come to be what we are and to have what we have just by accident? Who
                    cares enough to replace good intentions with action? Who cares?
            Comment by Pamela J. Bennett∗
            
            Both Errol W. Stevens and Albert A. Hodge call for materials for teaching state and local history as
                    a first step in getting Indiana history in the secondary school curriculum; Hodge issues a challenge
                    to the Indiana Historical Society and the Indiana Historical Bureau to produce such materials. Since
                    space has been limited, I will confine my comments to that challenge.
            What seems obvious from Stevens's historical examination and from my own experience over the
                    past few years is that one 
                  
                     ∗ Pamela J. Bennett is director of the Indiana Historical
                            Bureau, 140 North Senate Avenue, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana 46204.
               
                     major problem regarding the lack of Indiana history at the
                    secondary level is the inability of concerned individuals and groups to maintain constant and
                    effective contact. There have been spurts of interest from one group or another at various times,
                    but there has rarely been a concerted effort to cooperate, to initiate courses, to provide
                    appropriate materials and guides for class use, to monitor the use of such materials, to respond to
                    curriculum changes, or, in fact, to sustain efforts in any of these areas.
            For example, Indiana history is now required on the fourth grade level. There is no required
                    textbook; anything available is outdated. The Indiana Historical Bureau provides printed materials
                    for class use which date from the 1940s and 1950s and which are barely adequate; teachers use these
                    materials by the thousands, but how? A teaching kit has been developed with federal funds in 
                        Kokomo
                    ; it is apparently being used throughout the state with local modifications, but how
                    many teachers do not know about it and what are its strengths and weaknesses? There are other
                    teaching tools at the elementary level in various places; why can we not make these better known and
                    available throughout the state? Some historical museums in the state have hundreds of school
                    visitors; others have few or take no part in their local educational process. What actually makes
                    the difference since size does not seem to be the determining factor? Can the successful museums
                    help the others? Several museums in the 
                        United States
                     have highly developed educational programs that could be used as models aside from what
                    our own institutions could offer. What do teachers really want and need for teaching Indiana
                    history, and what can be done to answer those needs rapidly from existing resources?
            The situation at the elementary level is extremely relevant to efforts at the secondary level since
                    the same situation exists on a smaller scale, perhaps because there is no required course. We would
                    be foolish, however, to push once again for a required course in Indiana history—or even
                    an elective—without proper planning, including a consistent and sustained program for
                    more and better materials. The unit prepared in 1976 for both elementary and secondary study based
                    on George Rogers Clark was very successful, but what has become of it and how are teachers using it
                    without the impetus of the Bicentennial? The Indiana Historical Bureau still has in print Readings in Indiana History, and copies sell steadily. The bureau and other
                    publishers have volumes that could be used for classroom study on the secondary level. Some teachers
                    obviously do use these  volumes, but we do not know how and we do
                    not have the guide materials to encourage such use. I agree with both speakers that the new Indiana
                    studies course and materials are a good start; the materials have at least had input from major
                    segments—if not all—of the appropriate constituent groups.
            One could go on forever about what has not been done, but that does not solve any problems. Rather, I
                    would like to suggest some possibilities in line with Stevens's and Hodge's
                    observations, with my beliefs, with what is happening here and elsewhere, and with reality. I think
                    first that we must recognize the detrimental potential of a too narrow focus and of the reciprocal
                    prejudices that exist at all levels, especially among the groups that must cooperate if successful
                    teaching of Indiana history is to be achieved. Rather than say Indiana history belongs or does not
                    belong at a certain grade level, provide the incentives and the means to integrate it more
                    effectively at all levels and in various ways. The Mid-South Humanities project successfully relies
                    on English teachers, for example, as well as history teachers; other subject areas provide excellent
                    opportunities; and the arts and libraries have the best cultural lobbies in legislative bodies.
                    Anyone who has seen the Little Hoosier Historians at work or talked with some of our elementary
                    teachers must admit that elementary students can indeed learn something substantial about Indiana
                    history and can convey that knowledge often in sophisticated ways. In fact, they may even want to
                    enlarge that knowledge as they proceed through higher grades; the success of the Indiana Junior
                    Historical Society and the much newer History Day programs prove that such interest exists among
                    both students and teachers. Indiana's vast historical and cultural resources offer the
                    potential for activity in many disciplines and subject areas at all stages of the educational
                    process. Indiana history can best be served by a coordinated effort that uses resources most
                    economically and provides a wide range of opportunity for students and teachers in and out of the
                    classroom. This opinion seems to be widespread.
            Regardless of whether the requested educational director for the Indiana Historical Bureau is funded
                    in the state's coming biennium budget, the bureau will move to help facilitate such
                    cooperation. We need to know what resources exist and how they are used and to spread the word. We
                    need to make resources that do exist more useful by encouraging and disseminating appropriate guides
                    and supplemental teaching materials. Concurrently, we need to work on resources specifically
                    designed for class use that are adaptable enough to meet the 
                    needs of teachers and students at various grade levels and under a variety of local curriculum
                    restraints. Presumably such resources would combine all kinds of teaching materials—from
                    a basic textual approach to the most sophisticated audiovisual productions. In addition, a forum for
                    the exchange of information and ideas would seem to be desirable if interested groups want it and
                    would sustain it.
            "We" in the preceding paragraph refers to more than this state agency; the bureau
                    alone cannot meet these needs because it does not have the requisite expertise, although it has some
                    desirable elements to offer. Such accomplishments will not be fully realized unless and until the
                    cooperation of interested parties is achieved in a united program that draws upon the strengths of
                    all involved. The Indiana State Department of Public Instruction, school teachers, academic
                    historians, and representatives of local cultural organizations, for example, should be part of any
                    general planning group. To facilitate the exchange of information and ideas the bureau is willing to
                    begin production of a publication that has Indiana cultural education as its major focus. It could
                    be inexpensively produced in-house and marketed to the appropriate audiences at little cost. The
                    bureau will serve as the local sponsor for a Mid-South Humanities workshop on July 7–8,
                    1982, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Mid-South provides techniques and methods in using local cultural resources in the
                    classroom and can lay a firm foundation for extended methods training for teaching local history in
                    Indiana.
            To answer the challenges of Hodge and Stevens the bureau does care, and the bureau is moving in
                    various directions— albeit cautiously—to fulfill better its legislative
                    mandate to encourage the study of Indiana history. Given the fiscal restraints we all face, however,
                    unless we join forces in a meaningful way, we are still talking—or
                    writing—merely to hear ourselves talk. The latter situation may deceive us into thinking
                    that we have tried, but it does not get the job done. The real challenge is to all of
                    us—let's get the job done.
            Comment by C. Frederick Risinger∗
            
            The papers by Albert A. Hodge and Errol 
                        Wayne
                     Stevens make a strong case for reemphasizing Indiana history in the 
                  
                     ∗ C. Frederick Risinger is coordinator for school social
                            studies, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , and the executive secretary of the Indiana Council for the Social Studies. He
                            is the editor for the Lilly Endowment-supported Indiana studies textbook.
               
                     secondary curriculum. Certainly, readers of the Indiana Magazine of History require little persuasion on this issue. Neither do most
                    secondary social studies teachers and department heads. Most students enrolled in the few Indiana
                    high schools that offer a state history course enjoy it and encourage other students to take it.
                    And, the curriculum division of the Indiana State Department of Public Instruction has cleared the
                    way for a high school elective course in "Indiana studies." So, what's
                    the problem? Why do only an estimated one to two percent of Indiana high schools offer a course that
                    tells students about the sometimes wacky, frequently proud, but always interesting story of the
                    Hoosier state? The problem has three dimensions—space within the curriculum, appropriate
                    materials, and relevance to student and societal needs. Let's examine each of these
                    dimensions.
            It's absolutely true that there is little or no chance for another required social studies
                    course at either the junior high or senior high levels. With declining enrollments and
                    inflation-ravaged budgets, it's a struggle to maintain current curriculum standards. More
                    importantly, pressures caused by increased numbers of working students, early graduates, and related
                    cutbacks of daily school schedules are devastating the elective curriculum. Art, music, and foreign
                    language programs are suffering the most, but advanced courses in math, science, and industrial arts
                    are also being hit. Clearly, another required course (or for that matter, even a new elective) adds
                    to this dilemma. While I firmly believe that Indiana history should be an integral part of every
                    Hoosier's education, I'm reluctant to argue that he or she should eliminate a
                    foreign language—or art—or physics—or calculus in order to know
                    about "Blue Jeans" Williams or the reforms of Governor Paul V. McNutt.
            Is this "curriculum space" dilemma an insoluble problem? Probably not, but there
                    will be continuing tension caused by competing demands of more useful and necessary courses than
                    existing space or time in the school curriculum. Perhaps the best approach is to offer an Indiana
                    studies elective to attract interested students and "upgrade" the Indiana-specific
                    content of required courses such as eighth and eleventh grade 
                        United States
                     history and twelfth grade government.
            Both Hodge and Stevens discussed the lack of effective instructional materials for teaching
                    secondary-level Indiana history. I agree that this is a problem, but it's much more easily
                    solved. Many teachers are using the outstanding materials available from the Indiana Junior
                    Historical Society.  Others use the George Rogers Clark project
                    or excerpts from Donald F. Carmony's Brief History of Indiana, published
                    by the Indiana Historical Bureau. For high school classes these materials can be combined with
                    articles from the Indiana Magazine of History to create an interesting, dynamic
                    set of readings. County historical societies frequently publish pamphlets focusing on local topics
                    and issues.
            But most teachers simply don't have the time or resources to develop an integrated program
                    based on such disparate resources. This is especially true when the Indiana history course is an
                    elective and represents only one fifth of a typical teacher's planning responsibility. The
                    new Indiana studies textbook, mentioned by Hodge, can meet many of these needs. But before I discuss
                    it further, let's look at the third dimension of the problem.
            What should students learn about their Hoosier heritage? Certainly they should know the major
                    historical events of the pioneer and early statehood periods. They should learn about Abraham
                    Lincoln's boyhood and Indiana's role in the Civil War and Wendell Willkie, too.
                    But traditional Indiana history is not enough. In recent years the concept of history has expanded
                    far beyond what most of us remember from our school days. Today's historians view the past
                    through lenses of economics, sociology, political science, and many other disciplines. Social
                    history examines the day-to-day lives of average citizens—what they ate, how they
                    worshipped, what they did for entertainment. What was it like to be a fifteen-year-old girl during
                    the Indiana pioneer period? What decisions did an eighteen-year-old 
                        Madison
                     boy have to make in 1861?
            Moreover, what should we teach about Indiana government? All students are required to take a
                    one-semester course in 
                        United States
                     government, usually during the twelfth grade. Very few students learn about Indiana
                    government. Most assume that the governor and the president are "sorta the same"
                    and that the state legislature works like the 
                        United States
                     Congress. To some extent this is true, but knowledge about state government is
                    essential for effective citizenship. About 80 percent of the laws that govern our daily lives are
                    state and local legislation. Therefore, it is just as important for Hoosier students to understand
                    Indiana lobbying laws or property tax limitations as it is for them to know about the congressional
                    committee system.
            Just about a year ago, the Indiana Council for the Social Studies (ICSS) approached officials at the
                    Lilly Endowment with a project based on the perceived needs of students,  teachers, and future Indiana citizens. ICSS members include elementary
                    and secondary teachers and college-level teacher trainers. The ICSS proposal identified many of the
                    concerns articulated in Hodge's and Stevens's arguments. We argued that (1) there
                    was a definite need for a secondary text on Indiana; (2) the text should be written by classroom
                    teachers who know the abilities and interests of students; (3) the content should be based on
                    traditional history but should be expanded to include social history, geography and economics, and
                    especially the development and operation of state government. With Lilly Endowment support the
                    textbook has reached the final development stage. Five classroom teachers—Lida Barker of
                    Gary, Pam Gunkel of 
                        Brown county
                    , Joe Krause of West 
                        Lafayette
                    , and Harry Barger and Don Evans of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    — spent five weeks researching and writing the text. Mary Jane Meeker, a
                    specialist in Indiana history, and Jane Lowrie of the Indiana State Department of Public Instruction
                    served as consultants. If all goes as scheduled, the book will be available for classroom use in the
                    fall of 1981.
            The new text combines recent historical interpretations with a lively writing style and classroom
                    activities. It is designed to be used as a basic text for a semester-long elective course or to be
                    integrated into a 
                        United States
                     history or government class. The Lilly Endowment has demonstrated again its thoughtful,
                    long-range encouragement for activities and projects designed to make Indiana a leader in
                    educational, cultural, and social affairs.
            The new Indiana studies textbook will not solve all the problems of teaching Indiana history in the
                    schools, but it's one more example of the keen interest and pride that many Hoosiers have
                    for their state. Combined with state and local historical society programs, the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau and Indiana Junior Historical Society, dedicated teachers like Hodge in 
                        Rushville
                    , and even commercial support such as Hook's Drug Stores and the Indiana Farm
                    Bureau, Indiana history is a significant part of the daily lives of its citizens.
            Comment by Jane Lowrie∗
            
            First, let it be said that from a point of view of sound educational practice, students, indeed
                    children at home prior to 
                  
                     ∗Jane Lowrie is state social studies consultant for the
                            Indiana Department of Public Instruction, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     school age, need ever-widening knowledge of the place in which
                    they live in order to function effectively. Not just the "Where am I?" or
                    "What is this?" type of factual knowledge, but answers to the
                    "why" and "how" questions that bring meaning to the facts. This
                    orientation of leading the student from self outward has strong implications for teaching about the
                    home state at every grade level, thus establishing the relationships between whatever is being
                    taught to where the student is. It suggests exploring the present and, historically, how we arrived
                    at where we are and what we do. It implies more than Indiana history, but certainly not an absence
                    of it. Geography, culture, government, the arts, and, of course, basic skills, all play a role in
                    leading students to effective, responsible citizenship in their state and nation.
            The educational view of widening horizons is commonly used in the nation's elementary
                    schools. In Indiana's elementary schools there is much focus on various aspects of the
                    local community. A majority of the state's elementary schools teach some Indiana history in
                    the middle grades. The amount of time spent and what part of the history is taught varies from a few
                    weeks' focus on the early settlers to a full year spanning the range of Indiana's
                    history at the fourth grade. This is due to the long-standing view of the Indiana State Education
                    Commission that specific curriculum decisions should, by and large, be left to the local
                    district's discretion.
            Stevens has done a great service to the future potential for Indiana history in our secondary schools
                    by providing documentation of the long-term and growing interest of the public in this field of
                    study. In searching out documentation, however, it is not always easy to read between the lines and
                    perceive all the conditions that brought about past actions. In some respects it is like the meaning
                    of the word "Hoosier." In the early 1800s other people's perceptions of
                    those who lived in Indiana were quite different from today. Education was quite different, too. As
                    the sheer volume of knowledge has increased, our perceptions of what ought to be taught, when and
                    how much, have changed as well. Hoosiers were once perceived as backward, uneducated hillbillies.
                    Today "Hoosiers" rank among the top ten states in the nation in international
                    trade; hardly the conditions of one hundred years ago!
            Periodically over the past one hundred years, as Stevens points out, various groups have made
                    concerted efforts to promote the teaching of Indiana history in our schools. What he fails to note
                    are some of the major reasons why the subject has not received consistent, widespread
                    implementation.
            
            As more and more students continued in school to complete high school, graduation requirements began
                    to be formulated (such as a full year of American history at the secondary school level), still
                    leaving specific course content up to the local schools. The textbook adoption process, with the
                    accompanying category descriptions, has also influenced what courses are offered at the secondary
                    level. In today's world college and university entrance requirements also influence what
                    courses students take. There is certainly an abundance of knowledge on which to focus student
                    attention. But still, if there are justifiable reasons for teaching Indiana history in high school,
                    why is the practice not widespread?
            One reason is a lack of interest on the part of commercial publishers to invest financial resources
                    to produce textbooks, or any other compilation of materials, which focus exclusively on one state.
                    With the escalating printing costs of the past ten years, those few publishers who did produce
                    Indiana history texts have contacted the Indiana State Department of Public Instruction to state
                    that they would no longer be doing so, even if the text was written and ready for publication,
                    because they could no longer afford the financial loss. Another reason coupled with the first is a
                    paucity of interest on the part of Indiana historians in writing for precollegiate students,
                    accompanied by a lack of knowledge of how to write for them.
            But if not commercial publishers, why has the state failed to print these materials consistently over
                    time. The answer is simply a lack of appropriations to do so. There is a general lack of public
                    support to invest tax monies to develop and publish Indiana history materials. This stems partly
                    from the notion of "free" textbooks. There is, of course, no such thing as a
                    "free" textbook. Someone has to pay for them. The issue of who and how is one of
                    the great public debates which cannot be resolved here but, none the less, plays a critical role
                    when it becomes time to provide Indiana history materials for classroom use.
            There also seems to be a widely held belief that it takes little effort on the part of classroom
                    teachers to search out their own materials and put together a course of study on Indiana history,
                    thereby saving the money it would take to provide material for them. Indeed, nothing could be
                    further from the truth. It takes an unbelievable amount of time and effort to create individually a
                    course of study. Further, the availability of resources for such a project varies widely throughout
                    the state. This approach thus creates problems of wide variation in what is taught of
                    Indiana's history and in the quality of the material provided to the students.
            
            Indiana's social studies teachers have demonstrated an interest in developing and publishing
                    materials on Indiana's history. As Hodge points out, there is a cooperative effort underway
                    to provide a textbook for the newly established Indiana studies course. In response to both Stevens
                    and Hodge, yes, the Indiana studies course does address the study of the state's
                    constitution, comparing it with that of our nation, but that is far from the scope of the project.
                    The material is replete with political, economic, and cultural history and delightful anecdotes
                    about people, art, and architecture during various time periods. The mechanism for a strong course
                    at the secondary level is in place. The textbook is well on the way to completion of the writing
                    phase, but there remains a strong challenge.
            The challenge is this: who, among all of the groups who wish to see the high school students of
                    Indiana learn more about their state, are willing to support the publication of material now being
                    developed? What sources of money can be utilized to help the cooperating groups complete the
                    project? The Indiana Council for the Social Studies membership (social studies teachers), the
                    Indiana Historical Society, and the Indiana Historical Bureau all seem to want the same goal. To
                    accomplish this, the answer lies with all who read these articles to support the effort to
                    completion.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               A School for God's People: A History of the Sunday School Movement in
                        Indiana. By Grover L. Hartman. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Central Publishing Company, Inc., 1980. Pp. xiii, 106. Illustrations, notes.
                    Paperbound, $2.95.)
            Hoosiers who are celebrating the bicentennial of the Sunday school movement will especially welcome
                        A School for God's People. Although Grover L. Hartman has space only
                    for the bare bones of institutional development, his work fills some of the vacancies that have
                    prevented a complete understanding of the progress and regression of Indiana's Sabbath
                    schools. Observers knew, vaguely perhaps, that midwestern Sunday schools began as powerfully
                    influential offspring of Protestant evangelism and noted sadly how they have become, willy-nilly,
                    the worrisome stepchildren of modern church programming. Hartman's service is to trace the
                    descent of the institution from those early "big little schools" to the latter-day
                    "little little schools," from times when the movement was a radical departure in
                    frontier society to its present state of conservatism and lassitude. The movement expanded
                    vigorously throughout the nineteenth century, entered the twentieth with great expectations intact,
                    then foundered in the crosscurrents of the 1920s when professional educators began to tinker with
                    the traditional formula. It split between "church school" advocates and
                    "Sunday school" advocates, between denominationalists responding to rapid social
                    and theological change and inter-denominationalists who held firm for an ecumenical—and
                    uniformly bland—program of Biblical studies. In succeeding decades schools in mainline
                    churches atrophied, abdicating the popular front to fundamentalist groups.
            Hartman is a product of the Hoosier Sunday schools, which he unapologetically defends as the
                    wellspring of Protestant vitality. His purpose, in part, is to suggest that future growth of
                    mainline denominations is linked to their efforts in behalf of the movement. For church leaders the
                    theme is timely; evangelism is a favorite emphasis right now among traditionalists, such as the
                    Presbyterians, who helped found the pioneer schools but who have lost interest in the cause during
                    the past thirty years. One of Hartman's best chapters reviews byproducts of successful
                    Sunday schools: the Chatauqua, adult Bible classes, vacation church schools, even a style of church
                    architecture (the once ubiquitous Akron plan). More important, perhaps, were reforms that schools
                    abetted in earlier decades when they sometimes represented the only means of formal  education in pioneer neighborhoods and were the forerunners of public
                    schools. The movement's original crusade for literacy and social responsibility is surely a
                    more significant heritage than the Chatauqua circuit and drafty sanctuaries. Readers may wish
                    Hartman's emphases were different in some places, and his viewpoint less personal, but it
                    is also true that he touches nerves common in all Christian educators. For them, his concluding
                    queries are on target: "What have we now to serve as the nursery of the church …
                    [and] can we reclaim the Sunday school as the church's instrument of renewal and
                    evangelism" (pp. 97–98)?
            
               A School for God's People is not the thorough piece of scholarship that is
                    needed to measure the social impact of the Sunday school movement in Indiana. Hartman writes as an
                    advocate of the institution and as a prophet crying for renewal in Zion. This is perfectly
                    legitimate except that it limits his audience to those who share his instincts about religious
                    education generally. For social historians there is an outline of main events, a suggestion of
                    available resources, and an indication that much has yet to be written. Hartman supports his
                    narrative largely with statistics from various "annual reports" and with
                    information about venerable leaders of the movement. This is a view from the top, which defines
                    success as any huge, enthusiastic convocation of students kept busy with Bible recitation and hymn
                    singing. There is too little analysis of the schools' influence on community life, on
                    religious and moral values, and on Indiana politics. By the end of the last century such influence
                    was probably immense. It is surprising, also, that the author chose to take sides against the Yankee
                    preachers in the debate over who contributed most to the founding of Sunday schools in Indiana.
                    Hartman's own selection of eminent leaders includes many of those Yankees and argues
                    against the idea of an indigenous movement in the pioneer period.
            Because Hartman did not set out to satisfy social historians, he is excused from doing penance for
                    sins of omission. With those transgressions set aside, his book is a highly informative account of
                    the Indiana Sunday schools and will be especially helpful to ministers, Sunday school teachers, and
                    interested church members. Those who worry about church growth in the 1980s may find in
                    Hartman's devotion to the cause a guidepost toward that "right path"
                    which he is certain exists somewhere in the present darkness.
            
               
                  
                            La Porte
                         Presbyterian Church, 
                            La Porte
                        , Ind. W. William Wimberly, II
         
         
         
            
               Monon Route. By George W. Hilton. (Berkeley: Howell-North Books, 1978. Pp. 323.
                    Maps, illustrations, bibliography, index. $18.50.)
            Anyone who is at all familiar with the extensive transportation writings of economist-historian
                    George W. Hilton will have learned to expect a carefully researched, thoughtfully organized, and
                    finely tailored end product. Readers of the Monon Route will certainly not be
                    disappointed. In 311 pages of tightly structured text and illustrations, the author tells the story
                    of this modest midwestern carrier with dignity, verve, and affection, tempered with genuine candor.
            An early twentieth-century assessment of the 
                  Chicago,
                            Indianapolis
                and 
                        Louisville
                     Railway Company described the line as "a single-track, standard-gauge, steam
                    railroad, located in the states of Indiana, 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    . The owned mileage consists of two main lines and two branches in Indiana and terminal
                    property in 
                  Chicago, Illinois
               , and in 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               "
                        (Interstate Commerce Commission Reports, XXV, 313). Bereft of its colorful
                    history and stripped of its human component, this description of the Monon leaves it as stark and
                    bare as some of its abandoned branch lines in the 1930s.
            Hilton sets for himself the task of reviewing the Monon's more-than-a-century-old history
                    and introducing the lively human influences and geographic characteristics that made the
                    "Hoosier Line" practically synonymous with the state of Indiana. In some respects
                    Hilton succeeds almost too well. His is the difficulty experienced by all those who would combine a
                    picture book with serious history. How to present a magnificently profuse set of illustrations
                    (almost all of which are sharp and clear and add immeasurably to one's grasp and
                    appreciation of the Monon's style and service) along with a scholar's text must
                    continue to be a perplexing dilemma to author and publisher alike. One is reminded of a frequently
                    quoted dictum of Bismarck's that "when two ride a horse, one must ride
                    behind." Unfortunately, it is not always clear which is "riding behind,"
                    text or illustrations.
            Be that as it may, this is a beautiful and impressive volume. Almost everything that the lover of
                    railroad history could wish for is here in one form or another. The thread of corporate development
                    is clearly outlined along with examples of superior managerial leadership; i.e., the John Barriger
                    years. The excellent locomotive roster which appears at the back of the book (along with a workable
                    bibliography and a useful index) is an example of the attention given to matters of equipment,
                    plant,  and operating detail. Certainly not least of all, the
                    author succeeds very well in placing the Monon in the "here and now" and is not
                    afraid to speculate a bit on what its future may be in a strange (and greatly altered) modern
                    transportation environment. Having called attention to the difficult economic and engineering
                    problems which complicate its survival, the author comments wisely that though "the Monon
                    may have been unfortunate in its origins, … it was fortunate in its
                    enthusiasts." Hilton is clearly one of those enthusiasts.
            
               University of 
                     Illinois,
                                Urbana
                  -
                            Champaign
                        
                Robert M. Sutton
         
         
            
               The Diary of Calvin Fletcher. Volume VII, 1861–1862:
                        Including Letters to and from Calvin Fletcher. Edited by Gayle Thornbrough, Dorothy L.
                    Riker, and Paula Corpuz. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1980. Pp. xxxvi, 657. Notes, illustrations, index.
                    $10.00.)
            The Civil War dominates this volume of the Calvin Fletcher diary. Its pages are filled with comments
                    about military and political developments that are summarized from local and out-of-town newspapers,
                    descriptions of various wartime activities in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and observations on the impact of the conflict in the Hoosier capital.
            Fletcher's own war-related activities were limited. In April, 1861, at the request of
                    Governor Oliver P. Morton, he went on a mission to 
                        Canada
                     and New 
                        England
                     to buy rifles for the Indiana troops then mustering. His most important later
                    contribution was as chairman of the joint (national and local) Sanitary Commission for caring for
                    wounded and sick soldiers. He was always a staunch supporter of the Union cause, becoming
                    increasingly antislavery and anti-South as the war went on.
            During the years 1861–1862 Fletcher was still concerned with the operations of the
                    Fletcher and Thomas H. Sharpe bank, but on a routine basis. Much less space is devoted to the
                    business than in preceding volumes. Fletcher was always thinking of his farm northeast of 
                        Indianapolis
                     even though he no longer managed it directly. He continued to be the leading figure in
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Benevolent Society. As an "original settler," he was in demand for
                    addresses before pioneer associations.
            Family matters receive much attention. Cooley, the eldest son, was, as earlier, a source of
                    exasperation because he contracted  debts that his father felt
                    obliged to pay. Calvin, Jr., was now on his own; therefore, he no longer involved his father in
                    large risks and losses as he had done when they were in partnership. Miles, at the time state
                    superintendent of public instruction, was killed in a train accident while accompanying Governor
                    Morton on a visit to Indiana troops in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Billy enlisted in the army and was captured in the 
                        Virginia
                     mountains while engaged in a rather foolhardy reconnoitering expedition. He was sent as
                    a prisoner to 
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , where he served as medical officer to his fellow
                    captives. He was later exchanged and returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     a hero. Keyes also enlisted and served in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Ingram managed the farm very capably until he was persuaded to enter the Fletcher and
                    Sharpe bank. Elijah gave up an unsuccessful pastorate in New 
                        Albany
                     to succeed Ingram as farm manager, though his health was not robust. Stoughton
                    continued quietly in his uncle's bank. Lucy left home to keep house for Ingram because she
                    chose not to get along with the second Mrs. Fletcher. Albert was still in school in 
                        Maine
                    . Calvin had difficulty in recognizing that his older children were grown up and wanted
                    to be independent; consequently, he was upset when his well-meant (and usually quite sound) advice
                    was resented by them as interference—as Keyes wrote to Ingram "pitching into you
                    in his old style" (p. 260).
            As in earlier volumes, there are a few erroneous conjectures in connection with transcriptions. On
                    page 60 it is stated that "Albert brot from 
                        Maine
                     a color [print?] of Mr. Abbotts house"; of course what he brought was a sample
                    of the paint on a shingle or a piece of tin. Cutworms are described on page 129 as having eaten
                    "some of the beards [heads?] off the rye and some of the wheat." The beards are
                    bristles on the heads, not, as is suggested, the heads themselves. On page 138 the editors are
                    puzzled by a passage which they transcribe as "a wet harvest vested [?] wheat
                    &c." "Vested" is obviously a misreading for
                    "rusted." All these are trifling blemishes in a volume which has the same high
                    standards of editing as its predecessors.
            
               Marietta College, Marietta, 
                            Ohio
                        
                Robert Leslie Jones
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                        : A Historical Guide to the Neighborhoods, the Loop and South Side. By Glen E.
                    Holt and Dominic A. Pacyga. (
                        Chicago
                    : 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society, 1979. Pp. 174. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Paperbound, $7.95.)
            If Americans are going to come to terms with their industrial cities of the nineteenth century, they
                    will need some guidance. This volume is a step in that direction. Two urban historians briefly
                    sketch the development of seventeen community areas that together form a triangle extending roughly
                    eight miles south and southwest from the mouth of the Chicago River. These
                    community areas, or neighborhoods, were defined by sociologists nearly fifty years ago as a way to
                    analyze the city. Glen E. Holt and Dominic A. Pacyga largely accept the validity of these units and
                    conveniently use them as the organizing device to bring together a variety of information about the
                    city.
            Each community is presented in several ways. First, an essay weaves together data on the original
                    settlers, the development of urban transportation, institutions located in the community, centers of
                    employment, demographic patterns, and types of housing. Second, a portfolio of illustrations, each
                    with a helpful caption, presents the "look" of the community over time. These
                    pictorial resources are, in many ways, the heart of the book.
            Much less satisfying is the early-twentieth-century city street map that has been cut into fragments
                    and reprinted in seventeen sections to give a spatial description of each neighborhood. Since the
                    map is dated 1904, it needs analysis itself as a historical document and has many limits as a guide
                    to the communities. Because each area is only a fragment of the whole map, street names often do not
                    appear on the reprinted section; thus, using the maps as locational aids for places mentioned in the
                    text or described in the illustrations often becomes an exercise in futility.
            However, Holt and Pacyga are not primarily interested in geographic description or architectual
                    landmarks; instead, they are after the broader themes of demographic movement and community change.
                    In most cases the transitions they describe seem so rapid, so fundamental, and so constant that one
                    gets a feeling of basic instability. Only in a few cases has the flux been moderated enough to
                    create the stability which makes a community liveable from one generation to the next. The most
                    unstable areas that the book describes are the Loop, the Union Stock Yards, and the Central
                    Manufacturing District. The  Loop, it is helpful to remember, was
                    a primary residential area for most of its history, a function it may regain in the near future.
            Much thought has been given to ways in which the central business district might maintain its
                    vitality. The old streetcar neighborhoods deserve the same consideration. How have they changed in
                    the past? How are they changing today? How can change be managed in the future? As urban planners
                    ponder these questions about 
                        Chicago
                    's South Side, this volume should serve as an excellent place to begin building
                    the answers.
            
               University of 
                     Illinois,
                                Chicago
                   Circle Gerald A.
                Danzer
         
         
            
               A City and Its Universities: Public Policy in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1892–1919. By Steven J. Diner. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1980. Pp. 263. Illustrations, appendixes, tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $18.00.)
            This study examines the public service activities of 
                        Chicago
                    's first generation of academic professionals. Beginning with the founding of
                    the University of 
                        Chicago
                     in 1892, Steven J. Diner describes the role of faculty and administrators in the urban
                    progressive movement. The account ends in 1919 with the unsuccessful attempt by Charles Merriam, a
                    political scientist from the University of 
                        Chicago
                     with an impressive record of political achievement, to unseat Mayor William Hale (Big
                    Bill) Thompson in the Republican primary election.
            Two major themes essential to the process of modernization provide the background for this book: (1)
                    the development of a complex, interdependent urban pattern of life and (2) the emergence of the
                    university as the major agency for the discovery and dissemination of knowledge. In discussing the
                    relationship between the city of 
                        Chicago
                     and its four universities—
                        Chicago
                    , Northwestern, Loyola, and DePaul— Diner attempts to explore the evolution
                    of "our modern mechanisms of public policy" (p. 87). He does so by examining
                    community service, that area of faculty performance which was then, and is today, least understood
                    in terms of professional role.
            Diner considers major public policy issues, including public education, criminal justice, social
                    welfare, and urban planning and administration. Academicians identified with these subject areas
                    participated in shaping related policy, albeit in limited numbers and with varying degrees of
                    success. These specialists,  primarily from the emerging fields
                    of social science, conveyed an outlook which valued scientific research, specialized training, and
                    professional expertise. Examples to indicate that similar developments existed in other town-gown
                    settings are included.
            Faculty participation is set in the context of urban reform. Diner analyzes major civic organizations
                    and identifies persons affiliated with three or more of them. He argues that progressive reform in 
                        Chicago
                     was led by upper-class businessmen, usually Republican in political orientation and
                    Protestant in religious belief. Added to this group were aspiring professionals, twenty-five of whom
                    were university professors. Of these, twelve are characterized as leaders, with Merriam's
                    career illustrating the failure of these reformers to gain the political control necessary to put
                    their scientific methods to work.
            
               A City and Its Universities presents new material in a well-organized study.
                    Unfortunately, Diner's reliance on personal papers and biographical accounts distorts the
                    picture. The substantial role played by ethnic groups and organized labor in urban progressivism is
                    virtually ignored. The book is weakened further by errors of fact and interpretation. In two
                    separate places Diner states that William Thompson defeated Carter Harrison II for mayor in 1915.
                    Harrison lost in the Democratic primary to Robert Sweitzer. While the school controversy of 1915 to
                    1917 included the issue of tenure, the real struggle centered on the affiliation of the 
                        Chicago
                     Teachers' Federation with organized labor. Diner's attempt to argue
                    that academicians sought control of public functions remains unconvincing: there is little evidence
                    to support his claim that professors from the University of 
                        Chicago
                     "took the lead in the battle for the control of the public schools"
                    (p. 85). The phrase "hardly impressive" is used to conclude Diner's
                    assessment regarding criminal justice; this same description seems appropriate to the general record
                    of academic participation in public affairs.
            
               Indiana State University, 
                            Evansville
                        
                Robert L. Reid
         
         
            
               Transylvania: Tutor to the West. By John D. Wright, Jr. Rev. ed. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1980. Pp. xii, 445. Map, notes, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $14.50.)
            Scratch an antebellum, college-educated Indiana physician, and the odds were that you had a
                    Transylvanian! Eight thousand physicians, chiefly from 
                        Kentucky
                     and the Old West, had  graduated from the college by
                    1859. Transylvania's glory years under Horace Holley, 1818–1827, made credible
                            
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               's claim to the title of "The 
                        Athens
                     of the West." Transylvania's quality is documented by the inclusions
                    of nearly one hundred graduates in the Dictionary of American Biography.
            
            
               
                        Virginia
                     chartered the school twelve years before 
                        Kentucky
                     statehood. The institution has been state supported; under the control of the
                    Presbyterian, Methodist, and the Christian church; and incorporated into 
                        Kentucky
                     University. Despite perennial battles between liberalism and orthodoxy, Transylvania
                    has had an outstanding faculty—Constantine S. Rafinesque being perhaps the most colorful.
            John D. Wright has placed Transylvania in the context of the history of higher education in general,
                    comparing such things as curriculum and presidential utterances with their counterparts across the
                    country. The sole weakness is his treatment of 
                        Kentucky
                     politics (he did not investigate the charges of the college's being a hotbed
                    of Federalism) and urban rivalry as they affected antebellum Transylvania.
            Some libraries may have bought this book in 1975. The present volume is a revised edition, and the
                    few changes are instructive. The tone of the final pages is more optimistic. Gone is the statement
                    that "Transylvania has struggled with the challenge of defining its role as a small
                    [present enrollment 805] church-related, liberal arts college, … in a rapidly changing
                    American Society where the survival of such a college becomes increasingly difficult" (p.
                    430, 1975 edition). Gone also is the declaration that "the past achievements …
                    do not automatically guarantee its future survival" (p. 431, 1975 edition). Even more
                    noteworthy is the absence of the statement that "this institution shared in the munificence
                    of federal appropriations to higher education" (p. 428, 1975 edition).
            Transylvania was a key institution in the Old West. The reissue of this volume by the University
                    Press of 
                        Kentucky
                     will ensure that the university's importance will be recognized by a wider
                    audience than when its distribution was targeted at alumni.
            
               
                  
                            Morehead
                         State University, 
                            Morehead
                        , Ky. Stuart Sprague
         
         
         
            
               Civil War 
                            Iowa
                         and the Copperhead Movement. By Hubert H. Wubben. (Ames: The 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1980. Pp. xi, 280. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay,
                    index. $15.95.)
            
               
                        Iowa
                    's Civil War history is not so dramatic or so filled with conflict as that of
                    other states of the present Middle West because the opposition to the Republicans was a much smaller
                    minority in 
                        Iowa
                     than it was in Indiana or 
                        Illinois
                    . Hubert H. Wubben makes the most of it, however, and scarcely leaves a solitary aspect
                    of the opposition unexplored. Since the Copperhead movement, as Wubben terms the anti-Republican
                    forces, was comparatively small and insignificant, this book is in a large part a social history
                    stressing the impact of the Civil War on social standards and behavior with a strong sidelight on
                    economics. Some may therefore find the title a little misleading.
            The author has some difficulty with definitions, most notably that of Copperhead. Members of this
                    group are defined as Democrats who opposed the war as well as the policies of the national
                    administration, in some cases even to the extent of favoring a Confederate victory. War Democrats
                    come in two categories. One, not to be confused with the Copperheads, supported the war but opposed
                    the Republicans politically. The other supported both the war and the national administration and so
                    was almost indistinguishable from the Republicans. Fine distinctions are required, particularly in
                    dealing with Democratic factionalism, and they are not always successfully made.
            Some durable Civil War myths are effectively undermined. One is that the Germans were overwhelmingly
                    Republican, when in fact most of them were Democrats. Another is that Democrats were grossly
                    underrepresented among volunteers for the army. Yet another is that the fabled Knights of the Golden
                    Circle extended its poisonous tentacles even into 
                        Iowa
                    .
            The author's steadfast objectivity accounts for his departure from long-accepted Civil War
                    beliefs. Wubben takes nothing for granted and accepts nothing uncritically. His neutrality is
                    perhaps carried too far in his treatment of the national administration's ruthless
                    suppression of what was essentially a legitimate opposition, and an insignificant one at that. Also,
                    it is doubtful if 
                        United States
                     Marshal Herbert M. Hoxie was without both inspiration and sanction from 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. One of the few departures from objectivity is the statement that "those
                    cranky radical conservatives," the Copperheads, had nothing to offer but criticism of those
                    who were attempting to  restore the Union. Actually, they had
                    plenty to offer, the status quo ante bellum, the sanctity of the Constitution, and
                    the political structure inherited from the age of Andrew Jackson.
            Research is admirably done, and the writing is superb. Reliance is placed on original sources, such
                    as local newspapers, which are too commonly neglected. Wubben's literary style makes his
                    book interesting and absorbing as well as informative. The volume is an objective, well-researched,
                    in-depth study of events and attitudes on the local level, just the sort of thing that seems most
                    needed in the field of Civil War history.
            
               Campbellsville College, Campbellsville, Ky. Gilbert R. Tredway
         
         
            
               The Past before Us: Contemporary Historical Writing in the 
                            United States
                        . Edited by Michael Kammen. (
                        Ithaca
                    : Cornell University Press, 1980. Pp. 524. Notes, tables, figures, index.
                    $19.95.)
            This book, originally conceived by the American Historical Association in 1977 as "a report
                    on the part of historians in the 
                        United States
                     to their colleagues in other parts of the world," gradually grew
                    "broader and deeper than anyone envisioned at the outset" (p. 11). The result is a
                    publication of great significance—a benchmark volume that professional historians will
                    refer to frequently, graduate students studying for qualifying examinations will devour, and anyone
                    interested in developments within the historical profession in the 
                        United States
                     during the past decade or so will find interesting and informative.
            Following Michael Kammen's thoughtful introduction, which summarizes the "marked
                    transition [that] occurred within the guild of historians in the 
                        United States
                    " (p. 20) in the 1970s, the book is divided into three sections. Part
                    One—"Units of Time and Areas of Study"—examines American scholarship
                    in seven broad temporal and geographic fields (e.g., Early Modern Europe, Asia). Part
                    Two—"Expanding Fields of Inquiry"—focuses on eight areas of
                    investigation that underwent substantial growth and/or change during the past decade (labor history,
                    Afro-American history, and family history, for example). Finally, Part
                    Three—"Modes of Gathering and Assessing Historical Material"—treats
                    methodological innovations in research (oral, psycho-, quantitative social-scientific, and
                    comparative history) and teaching.
            
            Inevitably, the quality of the essays varies. Virtually all are well written and well documented,
                    however, and the bibliographic overview of recent scholarship provided in the footnotes is itself
                    worth the price of the volume. Among the essays dealing exclusively or primarily with 
                        United States
                     history, this reviewer found only "The Negro in American History" to
                    be unsatisfactory—largely because it focuses on just a few major monographs. Readers of
                    the Indiana Magazine of History, who presumably have special interests in state
                    and local history, are directed to Kathleen Neils Conzen's "Community Studies,
                    Urban History, and American Local History" and Herbert T. Hoover's "Oral
                    History in the 
                        United States
                    ."
            Although it is dangerous to generalize from a volume that ranges so broadly, two trends seem
                    unmistakable. First is the overwhelming impression of the vigor—indeed
                    domination—of social history during the past decade. Peter N. Stearns observes in his
                    essay that although debate continues on the definition of social history, those who share
                    "at the very least a concern for achieving a historical perspective on the everyday
                    activities of ordinary people, have steadily grown in number and expanded the range of their
                    activity" (p. 205). Many of the other contributors offer similar comments. Second, the
                    increasing Balkanization of the profession stands out in bold relief. It is notable that many of the
                    scholarly specialties treated here in depth would not even have been accorded separate-chapter
                    status ten or fifteen years ago. As Kammen puts it, if Clio's house has always had many
                    mansions "it would now seem that History has suburbs and shantytowns, trailer parks and
                    condominiums as well" (p. 45). Many of the contributors put "synthesis"
                    near the top of the profession's agenda for the 1980s.
            Thanks are due all concerned for this useful and well-produced examination of what might be called
                    the "Transition Decade" of American historical scholarship. It deserves to be
                    widely read and thoughtfully considered.
            
               Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Robert G. Barrows
         
         
            
               A History of Industrial Power in the 
                            United States
                        , 1780–1930. Volume I, Waterpower in the Century of the
                        Steam Engine. By Louis C. Hunter. (
                        Charlottesville
                    : University Press of 
                        Virginia
                    , for the Eleutherian Mills-Hagley Foundation, 1979. Pp. xxiv, 606. Notes,
                    illustrations, tables, appendixes, index. $24.95.)
            
            Here and there in America today are men and women who remember a country water mill to which in the
                    early part of this century local farmers still hauled their grain to have it ground for livestock
                    feed. From the beginning of settlement almost every stream-side village had its water mill for
                    grinding wheat and corn. "At the high tide of their usefulness in the mid-nineteenth
                    century," Louis C. Hunter writes, "country mills … were reported by the
                    federal census in the tens of thousands" (p. 1). Numerous, too, were waterpowered sawmills
                    and fulling mills (where country-made cloth was prepared for market). Nor was waterpower confined to
                    the rural scene, as numerous remnants of waterpowered industrial sites around the country still
                    attest. Despite a popular tendency to equate the industrial revolution with the application of steam
                    power to manufacturing (a tendency that the title of this volume—Waterpower
                        in the Century of the Steam Engine—does nothing to dispel), as late as 1850
                    waterpower was "the leading source of mechanical power on both sides of the
                    Atlantic" (p. 45). Not until the latter part of the nineteenth century did waterpower
                    gradually give way in America to steam power, while even in its relative decline the older power
                    source was the occasion of a rich technological development.
            It is this story that Hunter tells with unimpeachable authority, and there is something in his book
                    for every thoughtful reader in this energy-conscious age. The volume falls roughly into three parts.
                    The initial chapters, concerned with the country mills, will appeal to all students of pioneer life
                    who go beyond the superficial to discover the ways in which our predecessors on this continent
                    managed their economy. The middle chapters chronicle the development of hydraulic facilities for the
                    early industrial revolution, the growth of some of the first industrial cities in the Merrimack
                    Valley of New 
                        England
                     and at the falls of St. Anthony on the upper 
                        Mississippi
                    , and the management of large waterpowers. These chapters might stand alone as a
                    monograph for economic, business, and local historians, but all readers will profit from being
                    reminded that the 
                        United States
                     became one of the great industrial nations of the world without burning a drop of oil.
                    The last third of Hunter's book, largely an account of American adaptation and use of the
                    French-invented hydraulic turbine, "the leading nineteenth-century innovation in waterwheel
                    design before hydroelectricity" (p. 537), will appeal principally to historians of
                    technology. Indeed, the entire book is a treasure trove for this latter group, for while Hunter is
                    concerned with the social, economic, and physical environment in which his  waterwheels turned, it is clearly the machinery itself that interests
                    him most.
            This is not a book for whiling away the hours on a warm summer's day. It requires close
                    application. Sometimes lacking in tight organization, occasionally repetitive, it spares the reader
                    no tedious detail. And while some technological descriptions are marvelously clear, others quickly
                    leave the neophyte engineer far behind. The book is worth the attention it requires, however, for
                    like Hunter's earlier work, Steamboats on the Western Rivers (1949), it
                    is destined to become a classic. The first of three projected volumes on industrial power in
                    America, Waterpower in the Century of the Steam Engine is profusely illustrated
                    with photographs and diagrams. There is no bibliography, but documentation is more than ample. The
                    second volume of the series, on steam power, is promised in the near future. Together the two books
                    will constitute a definitive history of industrial power in nineteenth-century America.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Irene D. Neu
         
         
            
               At Odds: Women and the Family in America from the Revolution to the Present. By
                    Carl N. Degler. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1980. Pp. xiv, 527. Tables, notes, index. $19.95.)
            Carl N. Degler's At Odds is a valuable survey of recent research in
                    American women's and family history from the late eighteenth century to the present. In
                    synthesizing two often distinct fields, he demonstrates the persistent tension between
                    women's search for autonomy and their family roles. For general readers and historians
                    unfamiliar with these rapidly growing fields, Degler provides a richly detailed and provocative
                    overview of the literature. Specialists, too, will find At Odds an exceptionally
                    important study for its discussion and analysis of the numerous controversies that have emerged as
                    historians increase their knowledge of the female experience in America. Degler's inclusion
                    of many interesting, but as yet unpublished, studies is also laudable; the absence of citations for
                    some other discussions, however, is unfortunate.
            Degler has not attempted to cover all periods or topics at equal length—a decision that
                    reflects both the state of the two fields and his own expertise. The treatment of the lives of
                    middle-class women in the nineteenth century has a multidimensional quality and includes discussions
                    of women's roles as wives and mothers, childrearing methods, sisterhood, declining  fertility, and sexuality. Degler deals with women and the family
                    in the twentieth century in a much more cursory manner. Although he dismisses this disparity by
                    noting that "Most readers, after all, know from first-hand experience something of the
                    nature of the twentieth century family" (p. ix), the social history of women and the family
                    in this period is in a rudimentary stage and is in many respects far less complete than knowledge
                    for the previous century.
            Degler agrees with those historians who have challenged the notion that the colonial era constituted
                    a "golden age" in which American women enjoyed a better position in the family and
                    society than their sisters in the nineteenth century. In his interesting analysis of female
                    sexuality, Degler argues that women's lives actually improved in the later century,
                    especially in regard to their autonomy within the family. Although some prescriptive literature and
                    some medical men viewed female sexuality as "undeveloped and perhaps even absent,"
                    Degler does not believe that "during the 19th century women's sexuality was
                    generally denied or effectively suppressed" (p. 269). Attitudes regarding female sexuality
                    derived in large part, Degler concludes, from the attempt to control male sexuality and to enhance
                    women's position within marriage. Men who "overindulged" endangered their
                    wives' health; thus, underlying the emphasis on sexual restraint was the premise that
                    "mutuality was at the heart of sexual pleasure and therefore a happy and fulfilling
                    marriage" (p. 273).
            Most of Degler's book deals with the middle-class experience, but his discussion of the
                    lives of black women is very perceptive. Although he draws extensively on Herbert G.
                    Gutman's The Black Family in Slavery and Freedom (1976), he differs from
                    Gutman on the extent to which whites influenced black family behavior. His treatment of immigrant
                    families, however, is less satisfying than the literature on this subject merits. Degler is content
                    to summarize a few of the recent studies and thus fails to convey the diversity of experience within
                    immigrant groups depending on the occupational structure they encountered.
            Finally, this excellent and important book is occasionally marred by an insensitivity to the
                    sex-specific dilemmas faced by American women. Degler asserts, for example, that women have chosen
                    to put family before career. "Confronted with the social, psychological, or emotional costs
                    of being unable to have children and family if she chose a career, the wife chose to opt for family
                    and a secondary job, rather than a career. That was a constrained choice, to be sure, but a choice
                    nonetheless" (p.  434). One must question if Degler
                    really understands the meaning of those constraints.
            
               DePauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        , Ind. Barbara J. Steinson
         
         
            
               The History of the Evangelical United Brethren Church. By J. Bruce Behney and
                    Paul H. Eller. Edited by Kenneth W. Krueger (
                        Nashville
                    : Abingdon Press, 1979. Pp. 423. Maps, illustrations, notes, index. $17.95.)
            This is the faithfully recorded story of two Protestant religious bodies that came into being as the
                    eighteenth century yielded to the nineteenth. It is the history of the United Brethren in Christ and
                    the Evangelical Association. The book captures the drama of Philip William Otterbein, a Reformed
                    preacher in his German homeland, and Martin Boehm, a Mennonite, who at a Boehm revival on a
                            
                  Lancaster county, Pennsylvania
               , farm in 1767 joined hands and declared: "Wir
                    Sind Brüder!" ("We are Brethren!"). It brings to life the struggle of
                    Jacob Albright, an "honest tilemaker," who was licensed to preach by the
                    Methodists. The need for a German-language ministry led him to bring together in 1803 five of his
                    congregations to form the Evangelical Association. After holding conferences from 1789 on, the
                    United Brethren had been formally organized as a church in 1800.
            Through a century and a half these two fellowships with their common 
                        Pennsylvania
                     origin and their initial commitment to the German-speaking people—mostly
                    distressed and poor—developed side by side and moved westward concurrently. Their leaders
                    proclaimed Christian assurance. Their golden text might well have been: "It is the Spirit
                    himself bearing witness to our spirit that we are the children of God" (Romans 8:16). This
                    assurance brought joy, optimism, and confidence. In addition, sanctification, a John Wesley
                    doctrine, was espoused as a summons to Christian growth in personal and ethical living.
            On their pilgrimage the two denominations prospered moderately, recording their share of triumphs and
                    reverses. The Evangelical Association merged with the United Evangelical church and in the process
                    lost a number of congregations, which continued their more conservative way in the Evangelical
                    Congregational church. The United Brethren, as they grew and mingled with other churches, were
                    abandoned by a section of their fellowship which became the United Brethren (Old  Constitution). The main bodies found it relatively easy to join in 1946
                    to form the Evangelical United Brethren church. By the time of their merger with the Methodist
                    church in 1968, the "EUB's" represented a constituency of 768,099 members
                    in 4,048 local churches, which had compiled an annual giving record of $59,819,189
                    ($80.00 per member).
            J. Bruce Behney and Paul H. Eller divided their auctorial chores at the year 1890, Behney writing the
                    story up to that year and Eller covering the subsequent period. Readers of their book will be
                    impressed with the emphasis on factual material and the relative lack of psychological analysis. The
                    treatment centers on "when" and "how" rather than
                    "why." The authors do not claim any detached objectivity; they confess their
                    esteem and respect for the church they have chronicled. They do not, however, gloss over the schisms
                    and littleness that could be branded faults in the fellowships they love. Overall, Behney and Eller
                    have come up with a genuine contribution to American religious history.
            
               National Council of the Churches of Christ, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Grover L. Hartman
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Studies on Indiana: A Bibliography of Theses and Dissertations Submitted to Indiana
                        Institutions of Higher Education for Advanced Degrees, 1902–1977. Compiled by
                    Betty Jarboe and Kathryn Rumsey. Indiana History Resource Series, Volume I. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1980. Pp. xiii, 377. Indexes. Paperbound,
                    $4.50.) This excellent bibliography initiates the Indiana Historical Bureau's
                    new Indiana History Resource Series. Betty Jarboe and Kathryn Rumsey have
                    accomplished expertly the very difficult task of gathering in one list nearly three thousand
                    dissertations and theses that deal with Indiana. They have arranged the titles in accessible form by
                    dividing them according to subject, using generally the system of Dissertation
                        Abstracts, and providing author, name, and subject indexes. It is important to note that
                    there are very good dissertations not listed because they were done at institutions outside the
                    state of Indiana. Many of the studies listed are, of course, of marginal use to the historian
                    despite sometimes attractive titles. Neither of these considerations reflects on the compilers of
                    this bibliography: they have produced a volume that will be an essential aid for every serious
                    student of Indiana history.
            
               Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, 1979. Third series, Volume XIV.
                    This fiftieth-anniversary edition of the Proceedings centers on the theme of the
                    social sciences in perspective. At least four of the papers here published are relevant to Indiana
                    history. F. Gerald Handfield, Jr., presents an oral history approach to Governor George N.
                    Craig's administration. William B. Pickett studies Senator Homer E. Capehart's
                    relationship to the Cuban missile crisis. Richard Phelps offers some ideas and interview results
                    from his work in the Stringtown neighborhood of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Dwight Hoover suggests approaches to the social history of 
                        Muncie
                    .
            
               Reflections on a Heritage: The German Americans in Southwestern Indiana. By Darrel
                    E. Bigham, with research assistance from Charles F. Petranek. (
                        Evansville
                    : Darrel E. Bigham and Charles F. Petranek, 1980. Notes.) Darrel E. Bigham has gone a
                    large step beyond most local oral history projects. He has interviewed sixty German Americans in 
                        Vanderburgh
                     and adjacent counties in Indiana, and, rather than 
                  
                     ∗ Unless otherwise indicated all review notices are written
                            by the editor of the Indiana Magazine of History.
                  
               
                     merely depositing transcripts in libraries, he has used these
                    interviews as part of the evidence and illustration for this brief study of southwestern
                    Indiana's major ethnic group. Bigham combined the oral interviews with his skills as
                    scholar and his knowledge of 
                        Vanderburgh County
                    , gained from long hours in local archives. The result is a history that will be
                    immensely interesting to the general reader and useful to the scholar as well. Bigham expertly shows
                    the range and diversity of German culture in the early twentieth century—in churches,
                    social organizations, schools, businesses, newspapers, and foods—and he assays the extent
                    to which that ethnic legacy remains present in southwestern Indiana in the late twentieth century.
                    The project and publication have been supported by the Indiana Committee for the Humanities. A
                    limited number of copies are available at no cost from Darrel E. Bigham, Indiana State University, 
                        Evansville
                    , 8600 University Boulevard, 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana 47712.
            
               75 Years of Growing Together: The History of the People of Griffith, Indiana
                    (Griffith, Ind.: Griffith's Diamond Jubilee Committee, 1979. Pp. 96. Illustrations.
                    Paperbound, $3.00.) This interesting history of a 
                        Lake County
                     community treats a wide range of social and economic events during the first three
                    quarters of the twentieth century. Many good illustrations add to the book's value,
                    especially for residents and former residents of Griffith. The publication can be obtained from the
                    Griffith Diamond Jubilee Corporation, P.O. Box 1979, Griffith, Indiana 46319.
            
               Sweet Memories of "Old Indianie" in 1870: Personal Experiences and
                        Memories of the Author, Written circa 1940. By Sarah 
                        Brown
                     DeBra. Epilogue by Barbara Young. Drawings by Karen Mowery. Indiana
                        Historical Society Publications, Volume XXVI, Number 1. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1979. Pp. vi, 140. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    Paperbound, $2.00.) These memories provide an interesting story of a
                    late-nineteenth-century rural childhood in 
                        Kosciusko County
                    , Indiana. The account was prepared some seventy years after the events discussed. Sarah 
                        Brown
                     DeBra's memory was not always accurate, but she often recalled vividly the
                    essence of a child's Christmas and first days at school, the feeding of farm animals, and
                    the important family relationships that bounded her childhood.
            
               The 
                            Montana
                         Years: Chouteau County, 1910–1926. Compiled by Eva Gorman Finnell.
                    (Owensboro, Ky.: McDowell  Publications, 1980. Pp. 91.
                    Illustrations, index. Clothbound, $11.75; paperbound, $6.00, plus
                    $1.00 postage.) This is a delightful and informative collection of letters from Maggie
                    Gorman Davis, a White County, Indiana, resident who accompanied her husband to homestead in 
                        Montana
                     in 1910. The letters cover the years 1910 to 1926 and show the difficulties of farming
                    in the West and the continuing strong attachments to family and friends back home in Indiana. In
                    1925 Mrs. Davis returned to Indiana, where she and her husband resumed farming. The editor of the
                    volume has provided a useful introduction and family genealogy. Copies may be ordered from Mr.
                    Merlin C. Finnell, 502 Freeman Drive, Box 294, 
                        Monticello
                    , Indiana 47960.
            
               
                  
                            Wisconsin
                         Indians. By Nancy Oestreich Lurie. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1980. Pp. 66. Illustrations, notes, maps, reference material. Pamphlet,
                    $2.00.) Embracing the Menominee, Chippewa, Winnebago, Potawatomi, Oneida, and Stockbridge
                    Indians of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Lurie's book balances the history of the gradual erosion of the
                    Indians' land base with an account of their continuing efforts to shape their future and
                    maintain their separate identity. A well-known anthropologist and ethnohistorian who has worked
                    closely for many years with these tribes, Lurie presents the thesis that much of what happened to
                    the Indians nationally happened to them first in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Most valuable is the author's skillful summary of the last twenty years of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Indian affairs in the context of national events. Robert E. Bieder,
                        Universität Mainz, Federal Republic of 
                            Germany
                        .
            
            
               Access to the Past: Museum Programs and Handicapped Visitors. A Guide to Section
                        504-Making Existing Programs and Facilities Accessible to Disabled Persons. By Alice P.
                    Kenney. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1980. Pp. x, 131. Illustrations,
                    appendixes, tables, figures, bibliography, index. Paperbound, $7.95.) The space allotted
                    this review attests to the indifference historians still exhibit toward the public accessibility of
                    our past. Like all AASLH publications, this volume is written for small, often unstaffed historical
                    societies. In four chapters and three appendixes Kenney details the ease with which most regulations
                    can be met, suggests the potential for developing new audiences, and focuses upon developing "program accessibility." Access to the Past
                    should be required—and welcome—reading among local historical  societies and especially their boards. David Crosson, 
                            Allen County
                        -Fort 
                            Wayne
                         Historical Society, Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Indiana.
            
            
               Museums, Sites, and Collections of Germanic Culture in North America: An Annotated
                        Directory of German Immigrant Culture in the 
                            United States
                         and 
                            Canada
                        . Compiled by Margaret Hobbie. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1980. Pp. xix, 155. Notes, appendix, bibliography, indexes.
                    $19.95.) A resource book for researchers and friends of German-American material culture,
                    this volume lists 255 museums, historical sites, and libraries by state, with succinct information
                    as to access and holdings. Useful cross references, name and general indexes, other useful listings,
                    and a brief German-American history enhance the book's indisputable value. Eberhard Reichmann, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Papers of Ulysses S. Grant. Volume 7, December 9, 1862-March 31,
                        1863; Volume 8, April 1-July 6, 1863. Edited by John Y. Simon.
                    (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1979. Pp. xxiv, 588; xxiii, 609. Illustrations, notes, maps, indexes.
                    $35.00 each.) The terms "ordeal" and "triumph"
                    characterize these volumes of Grant's papers. Volume 7 covers a "winter of
                    discontent" followed by unsuccessful efforts in early 1863 to capture Vicksburg, which led
                    to low morale in the army and adverse criticism of its commander. In volume 8 Grant confounds his
                    critics with the brilliant, innovative campaign that led to the surrender of the city. Both volumes
                    document the incompetence of Grant's meddlesome subordinate, political general John A.
                    McClernand. Volume 7 includes the controversy over Grant's expulsion of Jews from his
                    military department (pp. 50–56). The documents published in The Papers of
                        Ulysses S. Grant are well chosen and beautifully edited by John Y. Simon and his
                    assistants. Roger G. Miller, Lowry Air Force Base, 
                     Denver, Colorado
                  .
            
         
         
            Correspondence∗
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Editors:
                        Your readers may be interested in a couple of puzzles in the review you published by
                                    Martin Ridge of Richard Jensen's book, 
                              
                                            Illinois
                                        : A Bicentennial History.
                        
                        
                           
                              ∗ All letters to the editor are printed
                                        verbatim. A communication will be published only if it relates to an article or
                                        review that has appeared in the Indiana Magazine of History
                                        and only if, in the editor's judgment, it serves a worthwhile scholarly
                                        purpose. Authors of reviews and articles are provided an opportunity to respond.
                                        The editor reserves the right to impose space limitations on
                                    communications.
                        
                        
                        The review begins, "Most books in the States and the
                                    Nation series, of which 
                                        
                                            Illinois
                                        
                                     is among the latest, have been greeted by the scholarly community with
                                    tolerance at best and ridicule at worst." That's a puzzle because
                                    it was demonstrably false when written, as any half-serious survey of scholarly
                                    reviews would show, and of course is unmistakeably refuted by the laudatory reviews
                                    of most of the books in the series published by five scholars in the June, 1980,
                                    issue of the American Historical Review.
                        
                        Later in the review Ridge criticizes Jensen's book for things that
                                    "may not be his fault. He probably had a shoot-out with the editors of the
                                    series and had to compromise…. " Probably? At least a quick
                                    phone call to the editors would have seemed in order to check grounds for a potshot
                                    like that. If Dr. Ridge becomes interested in the actual facts, I'll be
                                    glad to provide them.
                        
                                    Gerald George Director, American Association for State and
                                        Local History
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            Call for Papers
            A conference cosponsored by Indiana University-Purdue University at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Children's Museum, and the Indiana Historical Bureau and entitled
                    "Generations, the Family in American Life: A Dialogue with the Community" is to be
                    held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on March 25–27, 1982. The conference proposes to assess the current state of
                    knowledge about the American family in the past and present and, upon the basis of this information,
                    to speculate about its future. Following the format of the 1978 conference in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Childhood in American Life, this will be an interdisciplinary symposium for the
                    exchange of information about current research. It will not, however, be a specialized conversation
                    between researchers, but rather a sharing of knowledge with the concerned community. Papers are
                    especially sought that discuss the nature and roles of American families of varying  ethnic and national origins in the American past, based on, among other
                    approaches, genealogical research, as well as papers that consider the relationship of styles of
                    dwellings to family life in the past, present, and future (and the role of historic preservation in
                    facilitating such study). Papers that explain the role of museums and other historical research
                    collections in providing data for the study of family living patterns and for giving the present
                    generation a graphic sense of family life in the past are also sought. Submit proposals to: 
                        Warren
                     French, Conference Chairperson for Program, c/o Center for American Studies, Indiana
                    University-Purdue University at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 925 West 
                        Michigan
                     Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46202.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
