
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 9, Issue 1, pages 1-56. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:9+issue:1+year:1913&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            JAMES NOBLE.
            
               BY NINA K. REID.
            
                    Graduate Student, History Department, Indiana University.
                
            JAMES NOBLE was born in 
                  Battletown, Virginia
               , about 1790. Near the close of the eighteenth
                    century, his father, Thomas T. Noble, moved with his family to 
                        Kentucky
                    , where he lived the life of a pioneer. James grew up used to hard
                    work and became self-reliant. He was but seventeen years old when he married,
                    taking for his bride Mary Lindsay, a 
                        Kentucky
                     belle. Soon afterward he entered the law office of Mr. Southgate as
                    a student.
            After being admitted to the bar, he moved to 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana, where he began the practice of law, soon winning a
                    reputation for himself. Southeastern Indiana at that time was thinly settled.
                    The towns and villages were filled with Indians who visited the settlements to
                    trade their furs and game to the white people. The settlers were bold, hardy,
                    reckless, and so committed many crimes calling for the action of the courts.
                    Young lawyers were the most important persons in the country. People would go
                    hundreds of miles to attend court to hear the lawyers plead a case.
            The courthouses were frame or log buildings containing two rooms, one occupied by
                    the court and the other by the grand jury. The courtroom was furnished very
                    simply. At one end was a platform elevated about three feet for the judges, with
                    a bench for them to sit on. The lawyers had benches near the table of the clerk.
                    The crowd was kept back by a long pole stretched across the room.
            Noble had as contemporaries many well-known lawyers, among whom were James B.
                    Ray, later Governor; John T. McKinney, O. H. Smith, later 
                        United States
                     Senator; Amos Lane and John 
                    Test. Some of these men knew more law than Noble, but none of them could equal
                    him in making a stump speech or addressing a jury. He had a very strong voice so
                    that people within several squares of the courthouse could tell when he was
                    speaking. It was said that no juror ever needed an ear trumpet when he was
                    addressing the gentlemen of the jury.
            General Noble was appointed prosecuting attorney of 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Franklin counties
                    , December 14, 1810. On April 25, 1&15, Governor Posey
                    commissioned him circuit judge for the Third Judicial Circuit, in place of
                    Elijah Sparks, who had died. This circuit included the Whitewater country,
                    extending from 
                        Jefferson county
                     north to 
                        Michigan
                     and from the 
                        Ohio
                     line west to the White river. It was an
                    extensive circuit for a man to ride in those days of poor roads and forest
                    trails, and while performing his duties, Noble rode his beautiful white horse,
                    "Wrangler," for which he paid sixty dollars—which
                    was deemed a high sum for an animal in those days. Oliver H. Smith, in his
                    "Early Indiana Trials and Sketches," gives accounts of many
                    cases in which Noble figured. An important case was one tried early in the 
                        Franklin
                     circuit court. Action had been brought against the defendant for
                    cutting a bee-tree and carrying away a swarm of bees. The lawyer for the
                    plaintiff was John Mattocks, ‘Jr., a graduate of Yale. He knew Greek
                    and Latin and was well acquainted with Coke and Blackstone. The lawyer for the
                    defendant, General Noble, who, as Smith says, had been raised in the backwoods,
                    educated in the winter time at night in a little ten by fifteen log schoolhouse
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                    , was armed only with a large amount of common sense. Mattocks took
                    all day for his argument, reading cases and decisions from a host of English law
                    books, which he had with him, much to the disgust of the court, who understood
                    little of what he was saying. The next morning, Noble began for the defense in
                    what was said to have been one of the most conclusive speeches ever made in that
                    courthouse. He did not answer Mattock's arguments, but simply rose and
                    read an extract from the Declaration of Independence, which declares that the
                    colonies were absolved from allegiance to the British crown and that all
                    political connections with it were destroyed. 
                    The court immediately gave his opinion to the effect that Noble's
                    speech was conclusive evidence that the British authorities had been cut off the
                    day the Declaration of Independence was signed and he therefore gave judgment
                    for the defendant.
            A famous case in which Noble figured was the trial of four white men for the
                    murder of a party of friendly Seneca Indians at Fall creek in the spring of
                    1824. Noble was, at that time, Senator and was appointed by the Secretary of War
                    to prosecute with power to fee an assistant. He chose Phillips Sweetzer, his
                    son-in-law, a young lawyer of promise. At the trial of Hudson, one of the
                    accused, the lawyers for the defense pleaded the cruelty of the Indians and the
                    massacres they had perpetrated. Noble closed for the State in a forcible speech,
                    appealing to justice and patriotism and the fact that the safety of the settlers
                    depended on a conviction. His speech had a noticeable effect on the crowd and
                    the jury. Hudson was convicted and executed. This is the first case on record in
                    America where a white man was hanged for killing an Indian.
            By his own efforts Noble soon made himself a prominent leader in politics. Smith
                    says that when he came to Indiana in 1817 he found politics in the hands of a
                    party headed by Noble, Jonathan Jennings and William Hendricks. All three were
                    in the Constitutional Convention at Corydon, June 10-29, 1816. Noble was a
                    delegate from 
                        Franklin county
                    . Jennings, a delegate from 
                        Clark county
                    , was elected president and Hendricks was the secretary. Noble was
                    appointed chairman of the committee on the legislative department and was also a
                    member of the judiciary committee.
            These three men agreed to aid each other in making Noble 
                        United States
                     Senator, Jennings Governor and Hendricks Congressman. There were to
                    be three judges appointed for the Supreme Court. Noble selected Jesse L. Holman,
                    of 
                        Aurora
                    ; Jennings chose John Johnson, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and Hendricks chose James Scott, of 
                        Clark county
                    .
            When the work of the convention was over, Noble returned to 
                        Brookville
                     to the practice of law. In August he was elected a member of the
                    first Legislature, which met at Corydon November 4, 1816. Other members of this
                    Legislature were Amos Lane, 
                    
                        Lawrenceburg
                    ; John Dumont, 
                        Vevay
                    ; Davis Floyd, 
                        Jefferson-ville
                    ; Ratliff Boone, 
                        Gibson county
                    ; Isaac Blackford, Corydon, the latter being elected Speaker of the
                    House.
            The two houses met in joint session November 7, and declared Jennings elected
                    Governor. The next day, by joint vote, they chose James Noble and Waller Taylor
                    Senators. Noble received 26 votes, Taylor 20, James Scott 16, Jesse L. Holman 3,
                    Ezra Ferris 2, Davis Floyd 2, Walter Wilson 1, and Elias McNa-mee 1. Hendricks
                    had already been elected to Congress. So, in four days from the time Noble took
                    his seat in the Legislature, he was elected Senator.
            The second session of the fourteenth Congress began December 2, 1816. The
                    credentials of Noble and Taylor were referred to a committee to consider and to
                    inquire what legislative measures were necessary to admit Indiana into the
                    Union. Nine days later Indiana was formally admitted and the next day the oath
                    was administered and the Senators took their seats.
            The Senate proceeded to ascertain in what classes the Senators from Indiana
                    should serve according to the resolution of May 14, 1789. The Secretary was
                    ordered to roll up three papers of equal size, numbered 1, 2, 3, to be drawn
                    from the ballot box by the Senators. Number 1, if drawn, entitled the holder to
                    serve until March 3, 1817; number 2, until March 3, 1819; number 3, until March
                    3, 1821. Noble drew number 3, so his term was to expire March 3, 1821.
            His second election took place in the State Legislature December 6, 1820, Noble
                    receiving 20 votes, Jesse L. Holman 13 and Davis Floyd 4. The third election was
                    December 12, 1826. On the fourth ballot,'Noble received 40 votes, Isaac
                    Blackford 28 and Jennings 10. Thus he served continuously in the Senate from
                    1816 until his death in 1831.
            In his journeys to and from Washington, Noble always traveled on horseback. Smith
                    tells of the journey he made with him in 1827, when Noble was going back to his
                    work in the Senate. Smith had just been elected to the House. They started in
                    the middle of November, riding good walking horses. There were no railroads
                    then. Stage coaches had become the fashion; riding  horseback was going out of date, but Noble would
                    never hear of going in a stage. He always stuck to the old way. It took the two
                    men seventeen days for the journey which is now made in seventeen hours, at the
                    end of which time they arrived at the Indian Queen Hotel at 
                        Washington
                     kept by Jesse Brown.
            An interesting incident occurred on the way. They had stopped one morning at the
                    top of the Allegheny to breakfast when a stage coach drove up to the door.
                    Smith, seeing Governor Jennings in the back seat, and knowing that he and Noble
                    were enemies, not having spoken to one another for years, decided to play a joke
                    on the Senator. He called to Noble to come out as there was a friend there who
                    wanted to see him. Noble rushed out, opened the door of the coach, and there
                    beheld Governor Jennings, the only passenger. There was nothing for him to do
                    but say "Good morning" and shake hands. After that the two
                    were always friends.
            On first taking his seat in the Senate, Noble was appointed with Senator Taylor
                    on the committee on public lands. In 1817, at the opening of the first session
                    of the fifteenth Congress, he was placed on the militia and pensions committees.
                    He served on these two committees also during the second session. At the first
                    session of the sixteenth Congress he was made chairman of the committee on
                    militia and at the second session was also made chairman of the committee on
                    pensions. For the next two sessions, he served as chairman on these two
                    committees.
            When Noble entered the Senate, the great question of the day, especially to
                    people in the West, was that of internal improvements. He took a decided stand
                    in favor of a liberal policy. In 1817 Calhoun brought in his bill which provided
                    that the bonus to be paid by the 
                        United States
                     Bank to the Government for its charter and the net annual proceeds
                    received by the Government upon its shares in the bank should be set aside as a
                    permanent fund for internal improvements. Noble voted for this measure, which
                    was vetoed by 
                        Madison
                     on the ground that it was unconstitutional. During all the debates
                    Noble held that the Constitution warranted internal improvements at the
                    Government's  expense. He spoke in
                    the Senate December 15, 1824, on a resolution to appoint a committee on roads
                    and canals, opposing Senator John Chandler, of 
                        Maine
                    , who thought this would be unconstitutional, and saying he would
                    vote for the resolution as he thought it would aid in the general prosperity of
                    the country. Two years later, May 15, 1826, in a debate on the Dismal Swamp
                    Canal, he expressed the opinion that internal improvements ought at all times to
                    be promoted by the Government when this could be done without becoming
                    burdensome to the people.
            By 1818, the Cumberland road had been built as far as Wheeling. On February 17,
                    1820, Noble presented a resolution from the Legislature of Indiana asking for
                    the continuation of this road from Wheeling to the 
                        Mississippi
                    . This was referred, along with similar memorials from 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , to the committee on roads and canals. This committee reported a
                    bill to authorize the appointment of commissioners to lay out a road from
                    Wheeling, through 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , to the 
                        Mississippi
                     and appropriated $10,000. This bill was passed May 15,
                    1820. An act was passed March 3, 1825, appropriating $150,000 to open
                    and make the road in 
                        Ohio
                     from Canton to 
                        Zanesville
                    .
            Noble was very much interested in this work. On March 20, 1826, speaking on a
                    bill to appropriate $110,000 for this road, he said the whole
                    interest of the country would be destroyed if the road was discontinued. It was
                    needed, he insisted, to bind the interests of the Western States and 
                        Missouri
                     with the East. This bill was passed five days later.
            In the same year, May 8, 1826, he brought in a bill providing that as soon as the
                    route was surveyed in Indiana, a road eighty feet wide should be opened. The
                    bill appropriated $50,000 for this work. He said
                    this road would make lands in Indiana more valuable. The Government owned land
                    in many counties through which the road would pass. When it was finished all
                    lands bordering on it would soon be sold to actual settlers. He claimed the
                    appropriation as a right because Congress had pledged two per cent, of the
                    proceeds arising from the sale of public lands in the Western States for making
                    roads leading to those States. This bill was not passed.
            
            February 27, 1827, Noble spoke on a bill to appropriate $170,000 to
                    complete the Cumberland road from Canton to 
                        Zanesville
                    , and to continue and complete the survey from 
                        Zanesville
                     to the seat of government in 
                        Missouri
                    . He was indignant because many Senators were willing to stop work
                    on the road, now that it was built through 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     to 
                        Ohio
                    . He claimed that it was unfair to the West, since it had helped to
                    build the road thus far and was now to be left to struggle through the swamps
                    and morasses. This bill was passed March 2, 1827, as a rider to the military
                    appropriation bill.
            The next year, in the debate on the bill to appropriate $175,000 to
                    complete the road to 
                        Zanesville
                    , he again urged the compact made by Congress with the Western
                    States. He said constitutional difficulties were now being brought forward, but
                    that Jefferson had begun the road and he was no violator of the Constitution. He
                    showed how the Western States had been struggling for years in the forests,
                    extending the country's dominions and guarding the frontiers against
                    savages. He ended by saying: "You may make us wade in the mud and swim
                    our rivers and creeks by refusing to aid us in making roads and canals, but you
                    cannot keep down the enterprise of our citizens."
            Thus it may be seen that Noble on all occasions favored the building of roads and
                    canals. He was interested in everything that would help in the development of
                    the West, especially of Indiana. His attitude toward the building of the
                    Cumberland road made him popular, not so much because the people wanted a means
                    of travel, as that it gave employment for so many men. Farmers who lived on the
                    route, engaged in the work, receiving good pay for their labor and the use of
                    their teams. Thus at the very beginning the road was a benefit to the country.
            Another subject of great importance in Congress during Noble's time was
                    that of the public lands. An act had been passed May 10, 1800, regarding all
                    lands in the Northwest Territory, providing that they should be sold at
                    $2 an acre. A fee of $6 for every section and
                    $3 for every half section was to be charged for surveying expenses.
                    One-twentieth of the purchase money was to be deposited, to be forfeited if
                    within forty days the purchase  money,
                    including the one-twentieth, was not paid. One-fourth of the purchase money was
                    to be paid within forty days after the sale and the rest in yearly installments.
                    The sixth condition of the fifth section of the act provided that if the land
                    was not completely paid for within a year after the date fixed for the last
                    payment, the land was to be sold at public sale. This clause caused the people a
                    great deal of distress, especially those who did not have the money to pay cash.
            An act was passed April 15, 1806, to suspend until October 1, 1806, the sale or
                    forfeiture of lands for failure in completing the payments. April 18, 1818, an
                    act was passed to suspend the forfeiture until March 31, 1819; an act of March
                    3, 1819, continued the suspension until March 31, 1820. December 21, 1819, Noble
                    submitted a motion regarding the continuance of the suspension until March 31,
                    1822. The bill which was passed March 30, 1820, extended the time only until
                    March 31, 1822.
            When Noble first entered the Senatej on December 31, 1816, he moved that the
                    committee on public lands be instructed to inquire into the expediency of
                    dividing a certain proportion of quarter sections of land. A bill was brought in
                    and passed February 21, 1817, providing that after September 1, 1817, the
                    sections numbered 2, 5, 20, 23, 30 and 33 in each township should be offered for
                    sale in quarter sections or half-quarter sections, according to the desire of
                    the purchaser.
            December 21, 1818, Noble submitted the resolution regarding the location of the
                    lands for the capital of Indiana, in accordance with the location chosen by the
                    committee appointed for that purpose. A bill was brought in and passed March 3,
                    1819, providing that instead of four sections, any contiguous quarter sections,
                    fractions or parts of sections could be located under the direction of the
                    Legislature.
            To relieve the distress of the purchasers of public lands, it was thought best to
                    change the land sale system. In 1820 a bill was brought into the Senate reducing
                    the price of lands from $2 to $1.25 an acre, requiring
                    cash payment. Lands sold at public sale were to be sold in half quarter sections
                    after July 1, 1820; those sold at private sale were to be offered in entire
                    half, quarter or half quarter sections.
            
            Noble opposed this bill. He did not think sales should be made for cash as this
                    made it easy for monopolists and speculators to purchase the best lands and
                    afterward sell them at exorbitant prices. This bill was passed April 24, 1820.
                    It proved to be an unwise measure, as its immediate effect was to reduce the
                    price of lands already purchased and owned by individuals.
            November 30, 1820, Noble asked that the committee on public lands inquire into
                    the expediency of allowing those who had purchased public lands before July 1,
                    1820, who had paid the first, second and third installments, to demand and
                    receive patents. A bill was reported by this committee and passed March 2, 1821,
                    providing for the relief of purchasers; lands purchased before July 1, 1820, and
                    not wholly paid for, might be relinquished by the legal holder of the
                    certificate filing notice in writing with the registrar of the land office. Sums
                    paid on account of the part relinquished were to be applied to discharge the
                    debt due on lands not relinquished. Other acts were passed in 1822, 1823 and
                    1824 providing for the relief of purchasers.
            Many resented the fact that the public lands within the new States were owned by
                    the Government. In 1829 Senator Hendricks, Noble's Indiana colleague at
                    this time, presented a resolution of the Legislature of Indiana, praying that
                    the public lands should be ceded to the State. Noble opposed this. He could not,
                    he said, consistently with his principles, obey the Legislature and would not,
                    even if removed from office. He thought it would be injurious to the prosperity
                    of the new States if Congress should relinquish the lands in them. It was unjust
                    to deprive the old States of their share in the public lands, as they had
                    protected the new settlements which had thus grown in population and strength.
                    This was exactly the opposite of the attitude which Hendricks took.
            A bill to grant pre-emption rights to settlers on public lands came up in the
                    Senate and was passed May 29, 1830. In the debate, Senator Bell, of 
                        New Hampshire
                    , said it would be better to leave the lands to a general scramble.
                    Noble was very indignant. He made a plea for the men who had risked their lives
                    in settling these lands and who were now to be asked to buy them in competition
                    with others.
            
            The great debate on public lands, which began January 13, 1830, was on
                    Foote's resolution to stop the survey of public lands, limit the sale
                    of lands and abolish all offices of surveyors general. Senator Noble opposed
                    this resolution. He thought, as did Benton, that it showed the hostility of the
                    East to the West and a desire to check emigration.
            Noble was interested in establishing a land office in eastern Indiana. Owing to
                    his efforts a land office was established at 
                        Brookville
                    , March 3, 1819. His brother was appointed receiver. In 1822 he
                    brought in a bill to establish an additional land office at 
                        Port Wayne
                    . This bill was passed May 8, 1822.
            Noble moved a resolution in the Senate February 11, 1823, regarding the sale of
                    the Indian reservation in Indiana at the mouth of Racoon creek. This tract had
                    been reserved to the Weas by the second article of the treaty at St.
                    Mary's October 2, 1818, and was ceded to the 
                        United States
                     by a treaty held at 
                        Vincennes
                     August 11, 1820. Noble, speaking on this resolution, mentioned the
                    fact that this reservation included the center of 
                        Parke county
                    . The people, he said, wanted the tract sold so they could fix their
                    county seat. A bill was passed March 3, 1823, attaching this reservation to the 
                        Terre Haute
                     district for the sale of lands.
            February 2, 1826, Noble moved to appropriate $50,000 to extinguish the
                    Indian title to lands in Indiana. He advocated the buying of these lands on the
                    ground that it would promote commerce, giving citizens who before had been
                    confined to the margin of the 
                        Wabash
                    , an outlet through Lake Michigan and the
                    straits at 
                        Detroit
                     to Lake Erie. An act was passed May 20, 1826, appropriating
                    $15,000 for treaties with any tribes claiming lands in Indiana.
            Noble's position in regard to the navy is shown in a speech made
                    February 15, 1827, on a bill for the gradual improvement of the navy, in which
                    he said he was glad statesmen had come back to the "good old John Adams
                    system of defense." He was glad to see men of intelligence come out for
                    the support of the Navy, which, he thought, was the "right arm of the
                    country." The next year he opposed a motion to abolish the office of
                    major general, saying he had formerly been opposed to a standing army, but had
                    changed his views.
            
            Noble defended the Congressional caucus in a speech made March 18, 1824. King, of 
                        New York
                    , had criticized the caucus and Noble replied to him. He had
                    attended the caucus that year with only a minority of his party members of
                    Congress and thought it was all right to do so. This seems to indicate that he
                    was a Crawford man. The object of the caucus was to produce union on one
                    candidate, but it was controlled by friends of Crawford. It did not infringe on
                    the vote of any citizen of the 
                        United States
                    . This was said to have been one of the most unpleasant discussions
                    held in the Senate for some time. The Senate was forced to adjourn in order to
                    end what was a heated and unseemly quarrel.
            Noble supported the tariff of 1824 and the "tariff of
                    abominations" of 1828. He wanted to afford every protection to the
                    manufacturer. In this respect he was a follower of Adams and Clay and if he had
                    lived would undoubtedly have been a Whig. He appeared to stand in all respects
                    for the "American System" with which 
                        Adams
                     and 
                        Clay
                     were connected.
            Noble was a warm friend of Adams and defended him on several occasions, saying
                    that Adams had seemed to offend less against the Constitution
                    than any other man. He attacked Jackson and his attitude toward the bank.
                    February 22, 1830, during the debate on Foote's resolution, he declared
                    that the 
                        United States
                     Bank had established sound currency. He criticized Jackson for
                    declaring the bank unconstitutional, saying that in this he had interfered with
                    the judiciary. He called him self-seeking and expressed it as his opinion that
                    he wanted the bank established under his own control. "Farewell to
                    State's rights," he exclaimed, "when the day comes
                    that the National Bank is established under the arm of a tyrant. Farewell to
                    religious and civil liberties when crowned with a king and consolidated
                    government."
            When the First Bank of Indiana at 
                        Vincennes
                     failed in 1821, Noble was sent by Secretary of the Treasury
                    Crawford to settle the difficulty between this bank and the 
                        United States
                    . This he did to the satisfaction of every one.
            Among other things, Noble was interested in the establishment  of postroads in Indiana. At that time the mail was
                    carried on horseback by a man who made the trip once or twice a week. The first
                    year Noble was in the Senate he succeeded in getting a new route established in
                    the Whitewater country, from 
                        Hamilton
                     in 
                        Ohio
                    , via 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana, up to the west fork of the Whitewater by 
                        Connersville
                     to Waterloo, then to 
                  Salisbury, Fairfield
                and 
                        Brookville
                    . This business received more and more of his attention as the
                    country settled up.
            On several occasions Noble showed an aversion to anything undemocratic. February
                    28, 1828, he voted against a resolution to wear mourning for the death of
                    General Jacob Brown, commanding general of the army, who won honors in the War
                    of 1812. He said he did not want to establish this precedent. This homage to
                    military men made us too much like a despotic government. He also spoke, March
                    27, 1828, against a bill for the relief of the wife of General Brown on the
                    ground that he objected to such distinctions. The military fever was everywhere
                    and if continued, the Government would become a tyranny like 
                        Athens
                    . He thought the wives of officers ought to be treated as no better
                    than the wives of common soldiers. Besides, he was for economy
            This tendency to economy, which may to us seem like parsimony, is shown in his
                    speech on a bill to purchase the portrait of Washington, by Peale. He opposed
                    this as an extravagance, saying the people would get no good from it and that it
                    would be better to publish the deeds of Washington and make them known to the
                    rising generation.
            It must be said of Senator Noble that in all his career in the Senate he was very
                    outspoken and did not hesitate to say what he thought, no matter what others
                    said. This characteristic is shown in a speech January 11, 1828, when he opposed
                    the bill to abolish imprisonment for debt, observing that he would oppose this
                    bill even if he stood alone. He had been abused by the public press for opposing
                    this bill, but he would do his duty, replying to Colonel R. M. Johnson, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , who wanted to get the bill passed because it was his hobby:
                    "Thank God," he said, "he had no hobbies. He stuck to
                    the people."
            Noble's outspoken ways often got him into altercations with  other Senators. In this respect he was very
                    different from Senator Hendricks, who was so diplomatic that he never offended
                    any one. An instance occurred in 1828, when Noble gave offense to Johnson of 
                        Kentucky
                     by speaking of "long-winded Senators." Noble was
                    accused of "indecorous" conduct. An argument followed which
                    Noble ended by saying that he had accused no particular person of making
                    long-winded speeches.
            James Noble cannot be said to have been in the very first rank of Senators.
                    Webster, Calhoun and Benton were the great men of his day. He was not their
                    equal in ability, in eloquence or in influence, but he made a respectable
                    showing with men of less importance. He was faithful in the performance of his
                    duties and regular in attendance in the Senate. In the many debates in which he
                    took part he showed a variety of interests and a fund of information. At times
                    he could be eloquent. He did good service for the West by his advocacy of
                    everything that would aid in its development. The people of Indiana believed in
                    his honesty and integrity and, generally, in his public policies and purposes.
            The most prominent trait in his character was his boldness and fearlessness in
                    doing the thing he thought right. He was frank and open in nature so that his
                    motives could be seen by every one. This is shown many times in his speeches.
            Noble died Saturday, February 26, 1831. On Monday Senator Hendricks, of Indiana,
                    arose in the Senate to announce his death. He spoke feelingly of the services
                    the deceased Senator had rendered his country and his State; of his character
                    and of the strong ties of friendship that had united them for so many years.
            The body was brought into the Senate, followed by the House of Representatives,
                    with President Jackson, the heads of the departments and the judges of the
                    Supreme court. Rev. Mr. Johns, the chaplain to the senate, delivered an
                    impressive address. Interment was made I l the Eastern Branch Burial Ground in 
                        Washington
                    .
         
         
         
            NEW FACTS ABOUT THE CORYDON STATE HOUSE.
            
                    BY ETHEL CLELAND.
                
            [In response to certain inquiries by Senator E. B. Stotsenburg, of 
                        New Albany
                    , regarding the early history of the old State House at Corydon,
                    Miss Ethel Cleland, of the State Library, after a careful examination of such
                    source material as exists in the library, made the following report. Senator
                    Stotsenburg's immediate interest was in the purchase and preservation
                    of the historic building by the State EDITOR.]
            UPON a request for information received by the Legislative Reference Department
                    of the Indiana State Library in regard to "the erection of the first
                    State House at Corydon…the bill or bills providing for the purchase
                    of the ground and the erection of the building and the surrender of the ground
                    to 
                        Harrison county
                    ," the ensuing investigation was undertaken.
            After a cursory survey of the subject the question became, to show first whether
                    the State ever owned such ground or buildings, and if not, who did, and by what
                    right the State occupied them. The sources of information consulted are (1) the
                    territorial acts, (2) the early State laws, (3) the early legislative journals,
                    (4) the limited historical material in the State Library on the subject.
            (1) TERRITORIAL LAWS.
            In 1810 the territorial Legislature passed a law, "providing for fixing
                    the permanent seat of government" (Territorial Laws, 1810, p. 72). In
                    the preamble to this law we find the following:
            "Whereas, it appears from an inspection of the map of the territory, a
                    knowledge of the position of the several Indian tribes, and the probable
                    direction of future extinguishments of Indian title, and of future settlements,
                    that a position which will for a great number of years be central both as to
                    extinguished title and population, is to be found within the bounds of the tract
                    ceded to the 
                        United States
                     by the late treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; And whereas, the circumstance of the said tract being unbroken
                    upon by purchasers and still the property of the 
                        United States
                    , affords an opportunity  of
                    selecting a proper site for a seat of government, which, if procured on account
                    of the territory, either by purchase or donation from the 
                        United States
                    , and the proceeds of the sale of the lots appropriated to the
                    erection of public building, would be the means of procuring the speedy
                    completion of said building and relieve the people from a very considerable
                    burden."
            The law, briefly, appoints commissioners to select a site, provides for a
                    petition to Congress to grant to the territory the right of locating within the
                    bounds of the tract mentioned in the preamble, gives the location of the tract,
                    suggests the location of the site, and provides for filling vacancies among the
                    commissioners. It outlines their duties in a general way, the reports to be made
                    and the action of the Governor in case of a disagreement among the commissioners
                    (giving him power to locate the site in such case). If the 
                        United States
                     should refuse to give the territory a tract of land, the Governor
                    is authorized to buy a tract of land, borrowing the money, if necessary.
            How far the provisions of this act were carried out finally, what reports were
                    made to the Governor, etc., it has been impossible to find out. In the Western
                    Sun of June 8, 1811, in a summary of the legislation enacted in 1810, brief
                    mention is made of this act and in the same paper of December 28, 1811, in the
                    resume of legislation of 1811, it is stated that the question was up constantly
                    for a debate during that session—
                        Madison
                     having been particularly advocated as the new
                    capital—but no action was taken.
            In 1813 Corydon was fixed as the seat of government by "An act to remove
                    the seat of government from the town of 
                        Vincennes
                     to the town of Corydon, in the county of 
                        Harrison
                    " (Territorial Laws, 1813, p. 51). This act is entirely
                    silent on the subject of property or quarters to be occupied by the Legislature
                    or the judges of the general court. In the laws of the same year, (1813, p. 80),
                    an appropriation is made to one Mark Barnett "for rent of two rooms for
                    the use of both houses of Legislature during the present session,"
                    which, of course, was held in 
                        Vincennes
                    , showing that the Legislature rented quarters previous to removing
                    to Corydon.
            
            The territorial laws of 1814 contain nothing bearing on this question. In the
                    territorial laws of 1815 we find (p. 72) an appropriation to Elizabeth Spencer
                    for house rent, but it does not state that it was for the use of the
                    Legislature. However, a joint resolution of the same year (p. 117) grants the
                    same person "a further allowance for candles and house rent for the
                    present session." From this it would seem that the Legislature rented
                    quarters when the capital was first removed to Corydon. Another resolution of
                    1815 (p. 115) bears so directly on the courthouse (later called State House) of
                    Corydon that it is quoted in full:
            "A resolution for the relief of Dennis Pennington.
            "Whereas, it has been represented to this Legislature, that Dennis
                    Pennington, who was the undertaker for erecting the Court House in Corydon, in
                    consequence of not receiving the money as contracted to be paid, has been
                    compelled to pay a considerable sum, in interest, etc. And whereas, the circuit
                    court for 
                        Harrison county
                    , do not conceive, that they have any power, by any existing law, to
                    give the said Pennington relief,
            "Therefore, Be it resolved by the Legislative Council and House of
                    Representatives, That the associate judges for the county of 
                        Harrison
                     be, and they are hereby authorized to make to said Pennington, any
                    other and further allowance, as from a view of the whole circumstance, shall be
                    considered by them equitable and just, to be paid out of the county funds as in
                    other cases.
            "This resolution to take effect from its passage."
            (2) EARLY STATE LAWS.
            In 1816 the Constitutional Convention fixed the seat of government at Corydon
                    "until the year 1825, and until removed by law" (Journal of
                    the Constitutional Convention of 1816, p. 61). In the Federal Enabling Act of
                    1816 four sections of land are granted to the State for the purpose of fixing
                    the seat of government thereon. The Legislature in 1820 (Laws of 1819-20, p. 18)
                    appointed "Commissioners to select and locate a site for the permanent
                         seat of government." But
                    neither in this act nor in the subsequent acts of 1821, 1822, 1823, 1824 and
                    1825 is there any mention of State property and buildings in Corydon or the
                    disposal thereof, except, in a joint resolution of 1824 (Laws of 1823-24, p.
                    113) the State Treasurer is authorized to sell such furniture belonging to the
                    State as could not be removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There are three other resolutions that seem to have a bearing on
                    the question—one in 1816 (Laws of 1816, p. 249) in which the
                    Legislature adjourned the circuit court from the courthouse in 
                        Harrison county
                     to meet in the seminary in Corydon while the Legislature was in
                    session; a similar resolution in 1820 (Laws of 1820-21, p. 132) adjourning the
                    circuit court to meet in a private house, at the date the Legislature convened;
                    while another resolution of the same session (Laws of 1820-21, p. 142)
                    authorizes repairs to the "State House" for the next session
                    of the Legislature (evidently the building was known indiscriminately as
                    "Court House" and "State House"), these
                    repairs to be paid for from the State treasury.
            (3) EARLY LEGISLATIVE JOURNALS.
            In the Senate Journal of 1816-17 (p. 22) we find the following:
                    "Resolved, By the Senate that the select committee to whom was referred
                    an investigation of private engagements to provide a house for the Governor,
                    etc., etc., be instructed to enquire what is the situation of the right of
                    occupancy of the General Assembly to the Court House of the county of 
                        Harrison
                    , and what privileges have been granted by the county court or
                    citizens of said county, and what measures may be necessary to be adopted for
                    the future accommodation of the Legislature during the continuance of the seat
                    of government at Corydon, and that the House of Representatives be requested to
                    give similar instructions to their committee with leave to report
                    thereon."
            A similar resolution was adopted in the House (House Journal, 1816-17, p. 27),
                    and a joint committee was appointed to investigate the matter (Senate Journal,
                    1816-17, p. 23, and House Journal, 1816-17, p. 27). The report of this committee
                    is found on page 57 of the House Journal of 1816-17, as follows:
            
            "Your committee have made the enquiry into the right of occupancy of the
                    Court House in Corydon for the use of the State, and find that the associate
                    judges of 
                        Harrison county
                    , June term, special court 1816, made the following order, to-wit:
            " ‘Ordered, That the Court House of 
                        Harrison county
                     in the town of Corydon, be tendered to the Territorial and State
                    Legislature, for their use as a State House so long as Corydon shall remain the
                    seat of government.’
            "If the courthouse be sufficiently guaranteed to the General Assembly of
                    the State of Indiana by the above order, your committee would recommend to the
                    General Assembly to devote the room occupied by the clerk's office in
                    the Court House, to the Auditor for an office, and that another room in said
                    house be devoted to the Secretary of State for an office, and further we would
                    recommend that the books and papers belonging to the legislative department be
                    deposited in the secretary's office.
            "The committee are decidedly of opinion that more substantial assurances
                    ought to be given to the General Assembly by the citizens or court of 
                        Harrison county
                    , for the use of the Court House for the benefit of the State while
                    the seat of government remains at Corydon."
            (4) HISTORICAL MATERIAL.
            From a pamphlet by William H. Roose, "Indiana's Birthplace, a
                    History of 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana," in which, however, no citations are made as to
                    authorities, we find (p. 21), that on the 9th day of March, 1809, a contract was
                    let to Dennis Pennington by certain judges for the building of a courthouse,
                    which was built in 1811 and 1812. From this it would appear that the courthouse,
                    which was the same building later known as the State House, was contracted for a
                    year before the plan of changing the capital from 
                        Vincennes
                     was put forward and completed a year before it was decided that
                    Corydon should be the capital.
            Another interesting agreement, similar to the one which we have shown was made as
                    regards the quarters of the Legislature in the courthouse, was a contract
                    entered into by citizens of 
                        Harrison county
                     to furnish a convenient dwelling for the Governor,  and, it would appear, to pay certain sums of money
                    for the use of the State, which was also the subject of investigation at this
                    time (Session of 1816-17). In the Treasurer's and Auditor's
                    Reports of 1816 (Senate Journal, 1817-18, p. 19); 1817 (Senate Journal, 1818-19,
                    p. 39); 1820 (Senate Journal, 1820-21, p. 29); 1821-22 (Laws of 1822-23, p.
                    155); and no doubt in others not completely investigated, we find, in the
                    receipts of money by the State, sums recovered from sundry citizens of 
                        Harrison county
                     on suit instituted on bond executed by them.
         
         
            DENNIS PENNINGTON AND THE OLD STATE HOUSE.
            [D. T. Stephenson, in The 
                        Indianapolis
                     News.]
            When a mere boy I frequently saw the Hon. Dennis Pennington at my
                    father's home in Cory don, and I have some little recollection of some
                    of their talks of the building of the stone structure at Corydon.
            As I now recall, General Harrison used to put up at Corydon overnight in his
                    visits from his 
                        Ohio
                     home to his mill west of Corydon, and also in going to and from the
                    territorial capital at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and was so favorably impressed with its location that the people
                    of Corydon and 
                        Harrison county
                     had the general's assurance that Corydon should have the
                    territorial seat of government, and that the material and size of the building
                    was measurably determined by General Harrison's suggestions. My father
                    came to Corydon from 
                        Ohio
                     in 1819, and Mr. Pennington was among one of his first
                    acquaintances formed on his arrival in Indiana, and continued during the
                    remainder of Mr. Pennington's life.
            While I do not know anything of the records relative to the construction, I was
                    impressed by Mr. Pennington's line of narration that the building was
                    built with the view of being used for occupancy as territorial and State capitol
                    building.
         
         
         
            THE ATTICA WAR.
            
                    BY LUCAS NEBEKER.
                
            [Of the following article the author says: "I wrote it when I was a boy,
                    more than fifty years ago, and I interviewed quite a number of men who knew all
                    about it. All of these are dead now except Mr. H. A. Martin, who is now
                    ninety-four years old." Mr. Nebeker adds that his original article,
                    which was never printed, was lost forty; years ago. He rewrote it, at
                    there-quest of Professor J. A. Woodburn, after refreshing his memory by an
                    interview with Mr. Martin.—EDITOR.]
            COVINGTON and Attica were both laid out about 1826, a short time after the
                    settlement of that part of Indiana began. Both towns were built upon the left
                    bank of the Wabash river, it being at that time, and until
                    the completion of the 
                        Wabash
                     & Erie canal, the only highway of commerce in or anywhere
                    near that region.
            Throughout the early history of 
                        Fountain county
                    , each town regarded the other as a menace to its welfare and
                    prosperity, and many of the people of each town believed that the other town
                    ought not to exist. This feeling of bitterness and jealousy culminated in 1846
                    in a rough and tumble fight between a large number of the leading citizens of
                    each town, an affair now almost forgotten, but for a great many years known as
                    the "Attica War."
            The building of the canal from 
                        Toledo
                    , west and south, was begun before 1840, and as the natural descent
                    in that direction was greater than the descent which the canal should have, it
                    was built in sections or levels, with a lock wherever two sections met, to raise
                    or lower canal boats from one level to the other. From Attica to 
                        Covington
                    , a distance of fourteen miles, the one section or level was
                    completed in 1846, but it was useless, because it contained no water.
            The first filling of any level was somewhat of a problem, as an immense amount of
                    water was required, but when once filled only a moderate further supply was
                    necessary, and the filling of each level was accomplished partly by drawing from
                    the level above already filled and partly by raising one or more streams, by
                    means of a feeder dam, up to the canal level.
            
            The section above Attica, being previously constructed, had become filled and an
                    immense business was being done on the canal, with Attica as the western
                    terminus for the time being, and that town was in the enjoyment of prosperity
                    never dreamed of before. The section from Attica to 
                        Covington
                     was entirely dry, and, as the season was dry, the accumulation of
                    water in 
                        Shawnee
                     creek behind the dam was so exceedingly slow that the prospects for
                    canal transportation and escape from the old methods of the flatboat and the
                    occasional and irregular steamboat were not very flattering. It was at first
                    supposed and expected that the managers of the canal would open the lock and
                    allow the water to come down as fast as it could be spared from the upper level,
                    but, after waiting for some time in vain, it was learned that the people of
                    Attica had taken control of the situation and refused to allow the lock there to
                    be opened.
            Hon. Edward A. Hannegan, then and for several years before and after that time
                    one of the 
                        United States
                     Senators from Indiana, accompanied by a delegation of citizens,
                    made a visit to Attica in an attempt to dissuade those people from interference
                    with the canal lock. Just what kind of a reception they met, and what response
                    was made to their appeals and arguments, seems never to have been reported by
                    them. They were furious, however, when they returned, and they proceeded to fire
                    an old cannon, numerous times and rapidly. The people assembled, with the result
                    that a raid was organized.
            Early on the following morning about fifty leading citizens, including some
                    farmers who had heard the firing of shots, and including Mr. Hannegan, started
                    to Attica along the road known as the River road, some on horseback, others in
                    wagons, armed with clubs and other simple weapons. Meanwhile the people of
                    Attica did not remain idle or unprepared. They knew, either from remarks of the
                    delegates or the shots of the cannon, that trouble was imminent, and they raised
                    and sent a squad of men in a wagon, armed with guns, down the River road to
                    intercept and possibly turn back the expedition from 
                        Covington
                    . All business was closed and the citizens generally assembled at
                    the canal lock, armed with clubs. The invaders met the squad and quickly
                    surrounded, captured and disarmed all of them, and proceeded on  their way with little delay, and presently arrived
                    at the lock, where a warm reception awaited them. E. M. McDonald (Zeke) was the
                    leader, or one of the leaders, of the Attica forces, and close behind him were
                    his two brothers, Johnson and Joseph E., the latter becoming many years after a
                    distinguished lawyer and statesman, he being the 
                        United States
                     Senator of that name. Mr. Hannegan was of course prominent in the
                    fight which took place, though his friends have admitted that he aided the cause
                    principally with his voice and by his eloquence.
            Hezekiah A. Martin, of 
                        Covington
                    , now ninety-four years of age, is the only surviving participant,
                    so far as known, on either side of that conflict. His impression at the time was
                    that the battle was a fierce and bloody one, though it turned out that no
                    combatant was killed or seriously injured. William Wood struck the Attica
                    leader, McDonald, a blow which sent him into the deep water at the lock, and was
                    about to strike him another blow with his club, when Hannegan called upon Wood
                    to desist, and thereby saved the life of a very clever gentleman.
            As to the reasons why no casualties occurred, beyond a great many bruises, the
                    writer ventures the opinion, based partly upon a dim recollection of interviews
                    had more than fifty years ago with participants on both sides, now lost and
                    forgotten, and partly upon the easy capture of the armed squad, that the Attica
                    people were not so deeply in earnest as their antagonists, and really did not
                    desire to kill or injure any of the good citizens of 
                        Covington
                    , and that their demonstration was for the purpose of scaring away
                    their assailants. However that may be, the purpose of the 
                        Covington
                     warriors and their expedition was finally accomplished, the lock
                    was open and the water turned loose down into the lower level, and was kept
                    running without further interference.
            Thus ended an affair which, viewed from the standpoint of the present, seems like
                    a farce, but fifty years ago it was talked about seriously as the
                    "Attica War," and to those who participated it never was a
                    joke. It should be added that the results were disappointing. The lower level
                    was tolerably well filled up, but no boats could get down into it from the east.
                    So much water was drawn out of the upper level that #11 the canal boats  which happened to be on that section were
                    stranded in the mud in the bottom of the canal. In view of this sequel we can
                    hardly wonder that the people of Attica objected to having their section of the
                    canal drained of its water supply.
            This unfortunate condition was soon afterward relieved, however, by heavy
                    rainfalls, which filled up the feeders and filled the canal. For many years, and
                    even after the construction of the railroads, the 
                        Wabash
                     & Erie canal was a great boon to all the communities along
                    its route, furnishing cheaply all the transportation which it was then thought
                    would ever be needed.
         
         
            REPRINTS
            CONCERNING THE HOOSIER.
            AN APPRECIATION.
            [Charles M. Walker, in The 
                        Indianapolis
                     News, January 4,1908.]
            THE evolution of the twentieth century "Hoosier" furnishes an
                    interesting sociological study. Perhaps, as the question affects the people of
                    an entire commonwealth, it might be termed a racial problem rather than a
                    sociological study. For although the twentieth century Hoosier is a distinct
                    product, quite sui generis, he is more impressive in mass than he is as a
                    separate entity. Not that he lacks individuality, for that is one of his strong
                    points, but because a certain innate modesty, due perhaps to conscious merit,
                    prevents him from appearing to so decided advantage in his individual capacity
                    as he does in his communal relation. As mere man he is not remarkably
                    differentiated from other men, but as a citizen of Indiana he expands
                    wonderfully. In and of himself he is not an extraordinary person, but with his
                    State for a background he is many times magnified.
            In 1842, when Robert Dale Owen was a Representative in Congress from Indiana, a
                    member from 
                        Maryland
                    , during a debate on the tariff, twitted him with being a foreigner.
                    In his reply Mr. Owen turned the point very neatly by saying: "Mr.
                    Speaker, the  gentleman from 
                        Maryland
                     is an American by chance; I am one by choice. I had no control over
                    the place of my birth; could I have chosen the spot it would have been in the
                    pocket of Indiana."
            Mr. Owen was one of the most cultured men that ever served in American public
                    life. At the time referred to he was living in 
                        Posey county
                    , long known as "the pocket" on account of its
                    peculiar shape and being the extreme southwestern county in the State. So, in
                    avowing his choice of a birthplace Mr. Owen, who had traveled extensively and
                    had the world before him where to choose, declared his willingness to accept the
                    title of "Hoosier" and selected the county which of all others
                    in the State has been most widely and most unjustly ridiculed as the supposed
                    headquarters of Hoosier uncouthness. At that time Mr. Owen had lived in Indiana
                    about fifteen years—long enough to have learned that there was no
                    better State in the Union and no better county in the State than Posey. He
                    continued to be proud of the State of his adoption while he lived and never
                    failed to improve an opportunity to display the feeling.
            The incident serves to illustrate a characteristic of Indianians which has become
                    conspicuous in recent years, namely, their State pride. Another incident
                    illustrates the same characteristic. At the beginning of the civil war Colonel,
                    afterward General Lew Wallace's regiment was the first one to be
                    mustered in from Indiana.
            GENERAL WALLACE'S STORY.
            After the mustering in, the regiment was drawn up for a flag presentation. This
                    was done with a speech and then Wallace made one himself. Let him tell the
                    story:
            "I turned, the colors in my hand, to the regiment, then, like myself,
                    all wrought up. ‘My men,’ I said, ‘you all know
                    of the battle of Buena Vista—20,000 Mexican soldiers against 4,000
                    Americans; yet the victory was with our flag. You know also, that Indiana was
                    represented there by two regiments, the Second and Third. The Third did not
                    yield an inch of ground. The Second was less fortunate. While fighting
                    single-handed two divisions of the enemy, full 7,000 strong, eighteen to
                    one—in the midst of their well doing their colonel's heart
                    failed him and he ordered a retreat. He sent no flag back to be rallied
                    on—he took no step whatever looking to a rally. "Cease
                    firing and retreat,"  he called out,
                    and as they stopped fighting and looked at him in wonder, again he called out,
                    "Cease firing and retreat." There had been but 360 of them in
                    line in the beginning, and of that total ninety were upon the ground, dead or
                    wounded. Now, all who could obeyed the order of their colonel and broke to the
                    rear—in flight, if you please. Still, the greater body of them
                    rallied, and under their own flag and officers kept the field, fighting the
                    remainder of the day, their colonel having abandoned them and found a 
                        Mississippi
                     regiment as a private.
            JEFFERSON DAVIS'S WRONG TO INDIANA.
            " ‘Now, the regiment the colonel joined was commanded by
                    Jefferson Davis, whom you all know as a leader of the unrighteous rebellion we
                    are going to help quell. That day he assisted in proclaiming the Second Indiana
                    cowards, if, indeed, he did not originate the accusation. He was the son-in-law
                    of the general commanding our army, and he induced that officer to repeat the
                    slander in his official report. The sorry tale I have now to tell you clings to
                    the brave men of the Second Regiment, the living and the dead. It sticks to the
                    State no less. The stain is upon you and me. It attaches to these flags just
                    received, because they are now our property, and we of Indiana. So what have we
                    to do, my men? What but to recognize that the war we are summoned to is twice
                    holy—for the Union first, then to wipe the blot from our State and
                    infamize our slanderer?
            " ‘And that we may not forget our duty, that it may be always
                    present, and never more so than in battle, soldiers of the Eleventh Indiana, I
                    give you a regimental motto leveled at the man who, from having been vilifier,
                    has become the arch-traitor of his country. Kneel every one of you. ’
            "They went down like one man.
            " ‘Hold up your right hands. ’
            "Every hand was raised.
            " ‘Repeat after me, and swear now, "God helping us,
                    we will remember Buena Vista." There you have a motto,
                    "Remember Buena Vista." ’
            "They took the oath and accepted the motto. The witnesses of the scene
                    shouted, their eyes full of tears. We all went back to our quarters better
                    soldiers than when we left them."
            
            APPEAL TO STATE PRIDE WENT HOME.
            Wallace was a native Indianian, and his appeal was to the sentiment of State
                    pride. It went home and its effect was felt among all Indiana regiments during
                    the war. The sentiment is still active. Wherever natives of the State are
                    encountered—and they are very widely disseminated—this
                    feeling is much in evidence. There are organized societies of Indianians in 
                        Washington
                    , in 
                        New York
                    , in 
                        Chicago
                    , in 
                        Cleveland
                    , in 
                        St. Louis
                    , in 
                        Minneapolis
                    , in 
                        Denver
                    , in 
                        Iowa
                    , in 
                        Kansas
                    , in 
                        Oklahoma
                     and in 
                        Alaska
                    . These societies, composed of men and women born in Indiana and now
                    identified with other communities, hold annual meetings and banquets to keep
                    alive the memories of their native State, to keep in touch with one another and
                    to advertise to the world their pride in the State of their birth. They include
                    educators, ministers, statesmen, publicists, playwrights, authors, artists,
                    journalists, scientists, inventors, railroad magnates, travelers, explorers,
                    capitalists, promoters—in short, representatives of every phase of
                    modern life. Thus the cosmopolitan and progressive influence of the State is
                    felt in all directions.
            The sentiment which holds these various societies together is the more remarkable
                    because Indiana is still comparatively a young State. Her people are just
                    beginning to talk about celebrating the centennial of her admission to the
                    Union, and it will not be due until 1916. When, in 1784, Thomas Jefferson
                    proposed to form seventeen new States out of the Northwestern Territory, he
                    suggested for them such names as Chersonesus, Michigania, Metropotamia,
                    Polypotamia, Pelisipia and other polysyllabic monstrosities.
            THE NAME OF INDIANA.
            The name Indiana was not yet thought of and did not come into use until 1800,
                    when the Northwest Territory was first divided by the setting apart of 
                        Ohio
                    , leaving Indiana as the name of what remained of the Territory. In
                    1816 the name fell to the second State carved out of the vast domain and Indiana
                    entered on a course of development which has been in some respects remarkable.
                    The State has a number of inhabitants whose birth antedates its admission to the
                    Union, and yet within this comparatively 
                    short period it has attained a rank second to none in all the elements of high
                    civilization. It has been called the 
                        Massachusetts
                     of the West, and many of its traveled citizens consider this
                    comparison a compliment to the older State. It may be worth while to look a
                    little into the genesis and development of a State which so cultured a foreigner
                    as Robert Dale Owen was proud to adopt nearly seventy years ago and whose sons
                    are so proud of it to-day.
            ORIGIN OF THE WORD "HOOSIER."
            And first as to the word "Hoosier," which is now universally
                    recognized as the synonym of Indianian. "Words are things,"
                    and without doubt this word has had a certain subtle influence in the
                    development of Indiana character. Its origin is unknown. It first appeared in
                    print as applied to the people of Indiana about 1830, though no reason has ever
                    been discovered why it should have been applied to them more than to the pioneer
                    settlers of any other Western State. Most of the early attempts to trace its
                    origin or etymology, including those adopted by some of the compilers of
                    dictionaries, were too ridiculous for serious consideration. It certainly did
                    not originate in Indiana, nor was it first applied to the people of this State.
            It is, doubtless, of old English origin, and was used in some parts of the South
                    at an early day, locally and colloquially, to designate an uncouth, boorish
                    person. In this sense it may possibly have been derived from
                    "Hosier," which, in old English, was sometimes used as
                    synonymous with a low, vulgar fellow. In 1574, an English author wrote of
                    "vulgar, obscure persons, like hosiers and tanners," and
                    Jonathan Swift, in 1731, wrote: "You are as arrant a cockney as any
                    hosier in Cheapside." This suggestion as to the origin of the word is
                    purely conjectural, but is more reasonable than some of those adopted by
                    lexicographers.
            This much is certain: The word is of English origin, was used in the South at any
                    early day to designate an uncouth, boorish person and was originally applied to
                    the people of Indiana in derision or ridicule. It came to Indiana from the
                    South, as did also many of the pioneer settlers of the State. As far as known,
                    its first appearance in print was in a poem entitled "The
                    Hoosier's Nest," published in 1830. John Finley, the author of
                    the poem,  was a clever versifier of the
                    period, and used the term "Hoosier" in a friendly sense. He
                    was a Virginian by birth, had lived in Indiana only seven years when the poem
                    was published, and may have brought the word with him from 
                        Virginia
                    .
            PICTURE OF THE HOOSIER OF 1839.
            In 1839, nine years after the first appearance of the word in print, the 
                        New Orleans
                     Picayune gave a picture of the Hoosier of that period, who came
                    down the river with his flatboat load of produce. It said:
            "There is a primitive and pristine simplicity of character and
                    independence of mind about a Hoosier that pleases us much. His step is as
                    untrammeled by the artifices of fashion and as free from the constraint of
                    foppery as the mighty rivers of the West are from destruction in their impetuous
                    course to the ocean, or as the path of the buffalo herd over the wild prairie.
                    Born on the fructuous soil of freedom, and unchecked in his growth by avarice or
                    dissimulation, he rises to manhood with a mind unwarped and a spirit unbent like
                    the trees of the forest around him. He loves liberty—loves it in his
                    heart's core; he would fight, he would die for it. He cries from his
                    soul, ‘Long live liberty, ’ because the instinct of his
                    free and unsophisticated nature tells him that it is the inestimable birthright
                    and heritage of man, and he thinks that to live without it is as impossible as
                    to exist without the free air that wantons around his Western home. He may be
                    ignorant of the use of the eyeglass, but is his aim with the rifle less deadly?
                    He may not be able to discuss the merits of the last novel, but thinkest thou
                    that he is ignorant of the cardinal principles of liberty? In a word, he may not
                    be a thing with his face hid in a stock, long hair and a shirt collar, but might
                    not more confidence be placed in his brawny arm in time of war than in a whole
                    regiment of such men of doubtful gender?
            "We do love to see a Hoosier roll along the levee with the proceeds of
                    the cargo of his flatboat in his pocket. It is the wages of industry, and no
                    lordly ecclesiastic or titled layman dares claim a cent of it. See with what
                    pity he regards those who are confined to the unchanging monotony of a city
                    life, and observe how he despises the uniformity of dress. He has just donned a
                    new  blue dress coat with silk linings and
                    flowered gilt buttons. His new trousers look rather short for the present
                    fashion, but this is easily accounted for—they were of stocking fit
                    or French cut at the instep, and thinking they pressed rather close, he has
                    curtailed them of some six inches of their fair proportions. He glories in still
                    sporting the same unpolished big boots, and the woolen, round-topped,
                    wide-leafed hat in which he set out from home. The Hoosier says, or seems to
                    say—’A life in the woods for me, ’ and his
                    happy and independent life attests the wisdom of his choice."
            NOT THE SAME HOOSIER NOW.
            This is a pretty good bit of humor, barring the Johnsonian English, and pictures
                    the Hoosier of that day as he appeared in 
                        New Orleans
                     as an original type with his future before him. Since then it has
                    come. Times have changed and the Hoosier has changed with them. He is at home
                    now in all the cities from 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Paris
                    , and if one undertakes to discuss the merits of the last novel with
                    him, one is likely to find that the Hoosier wrote it.
            The nicknames of some other Western States are quite as obscure in their origin
                    as the word Hoosier. That of 
                        Ohio
                     is easily accounted for by the early prevalence of the buckeye tree
                    in that State. But why are Illinoisans called "Suckers" and
                    Missourians "Pukes"? These names are said to have originated
                    in the Galena lead mines. A local historian of 
                        Illinois
                     says: "Late in the fall of 1826 I was standing on the
                    levee of what is now Galena, watching a number of our 
                        Illinois
                     boys go on board of a steamboat bound down the river, when a man
                    from 
                        Missouri
                     stepped up and asked: ‘Boys, where are you going?
                    ’ The answer was ‘Home. ’ ‘Well,
                    ’ he replied, ‘you put me in mind of suckers; up in the
                    spring, spawn, and all return in the fall. ’ From this the
                    appellation ‘Suckers ’ stuck to Illinoisans. The following
                    spring the Missourians poured into the mining regions in such numbers that the
                    State was said to have had a puke, and the name of ‘Pukes
                    ’ was thenceforward applied to all Missourians." This may be
                    the true origin of those words, for slang phrases and epithets of that kind
                    often originate among rough frontier characters. There is this difference,
                    however, between the nicknames applied to the State last named and the one
                    applied to Indiana—the people of 
                    those States have repudiated and resented their nicknames, while Indianians
                    accepted the term "Hoosier" and proceeded to glorify it. If
                    they had "kicked" and protested against the injustice of the
                    appellation it would have stuck to them all the closer and they would have got
                    nothing out of it but humiliation, whereas, by adopting the other course, they
                    disarmed ridicule and surrounded the word with a halo of new and historic
                    meaning.
            MUCH DUE TO ANCESTORS.
            The twentieth century Hoosier owes much in the way of moral and intellectual
                    qualities to his ancestors. He is a composite character and represents an
                    unusual commingling of breeds and bloods. Indiana Territory began to be settled
                    soon after the close of the revolutionary war, and the pioneers of the State
                    represented the best blood of the new American nation and of foreign nations as
                    well. The men who fought the revolutionary war to a successful finish were no
                    weaklings, and large numbers of them came to Indiana. The early immigration to
                    the State consisted of two main streams, one from the northern Atlantic States
                    and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and the other from 
                        Virginia
                    , the Carolinas and 
                        Kentucky
                    . It included revolutionary soldiers, representatives of prominent
                    families in the original colonies, frontier men, illiterates and scholars,
                    native and foreign born, adventurers and home-seekers, speculators and empire
                    builders, men of pure blood and of mixed Americans, English, Irish and Scotch,
                    men of various antecedents, ideals and ambitions, but all imbued with the idea
                    that Indiana was a land of promise, and with a purpose to make it a land of
                    fulfillment.
            A large element of the early immigration was the so-called Scotch-Irish. This is
                    one of the best strains of blood that has gone to the making of the American
                    nation. From the foundation of the Government to the present time it has
                    contributed largely to the leaders in American progress and to the list of
                    notable men in public and private life. No less than seven of our Presidents
                    have been of Scotch-Irish descent on one or both sides, including Benjamin
                    Harrison, McKinley and Roosevelt. In Indiana such men as Vice-President
                    Hendricks, 
                        United States
                     Senator Joseph E. McDonald, Secretary of the Treasury Hugh  McCulloch and many others of like character
                    came of this stock. Several Governors of the State were of the same stock.
            SCOTCH-IRISH AND QUAKER BLOOD.
            Local literature, of which Indianians are justly proud and which has enriched
                    that of the nation, draws much of the inspiration from Scotch or Scotch-Irish
                    blood. General Lew Wallace says in his autobiography: "Mine were folk
                    who cared little for ancestors. The grandmother on the paternal side was an
                    exception. A correspondent writes me of hearing her speak often and proudly of
                    her uncle, John Paul, he of the famous surname Jones." John Paul Jones
                    was Scotch and Wallace was of Scotch-Irish descent. Among the soldiers who
                    served under General George Rogers Clark and who drew their quota of lands in
                    Clark's grant, was one named David Wallace. This was the name of
                    General Lew Wallace's father, and the soldier was doubtless a
                    collateral relative. The surname and the Christian name are both Scotch.
                    Meredith Nicholson, the novelist, is of Scotch-Irish descent. His grandfather
                    was born in 
                        North Carolina
                     and his father in 
                        Kentucky
                    , showing that the family reached Indiana from Ireland by way of
                    those States. The Scotch-Irish made a deep and lasting mark in Indiana.
            Another fine strain of blood toward making the composite Hoosier character was
                    that of the Quakers. These sterling people settled in 
                        North Carolina
                     at an early day in large numbers and in later years many of them
                    emigrated from that State to Indiana. Beginning about 1800 and for many years
                    following, thousands of them left their Southern homes for Indiana. Many came
                    also from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . In 1850 it was roughly estimated that one-third of the population
                    of the State was made up of North Carolinians and their children.
            Wherever the Quakers settled they built first a "meetinghouse"
                    and next a schoolhouse. They impressed their influence on the population very
                    distinctly and it always made for political progress and civic righteousness. At
                    an early day they were largely instrumental by their votes in making Indiana a
                    free State after a struggle of several years by the friends of slavery to
                    establish that institution and in many other moral and political crises they
                    helped to place and keep the State on right lines. The  twentieth century Hoosier owes more than he knows
                    for the present standing of the State to these undemonstrative but steady
                    friends of good morals and good government.
            During the first decade of the nineteenth century the population of Indiana
                    increased more than 400 per cent. This was making new blood at a rapid rate. It
                    was also the beginning of the movement of the center of population of the 
                        United States
                     toward Indiana. In 1790 this center was twenty-two miles east of 
                        Baltimore
                    ; now it is about fifty miles south of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The people of Indiana began to develop character and attract attention at an
                    early day. In 1819 there was published at 
                  Edinburgh, Scotland
               , "a statistical, political and
                    historical account of the 
                        United States
                     of North America from the period of their first colonization to the
                    present day" by D. B. Warden. In treating of Indiana the author said:
            "This State is but recently settled; but many of the settlers are of a
                    respectable class and their manners are more refined than could be expected in a
                    place where society is but in its infancy. They are sober and industrious;
                    drunkenness is rare and quarreling rare in proportion. They set a high value on
                    the right of personal resistance to aggression. They possess great energy of
                    character and, though they respect the laws generally, do not hesitate sometimes
                    to redress what they consider a public injury by a more summary mode of
                    proceeding."
            This writer wrote at long range, but he hit off the character of the people
                    fairly well. The Hoosier had not yet found his distinctive sobriquet, but he was
                    already developing individuality. The meeting of different nationalities and the
                    commingling of bloods which was to result in developing a new type of American
                    had already begun to work.
            INDIANA AN IDEA-DEVELOPING STATE.
            At a Chautauqua assemblage in an Indiana town not long ago Opie Read, an author
                    of some note, gave a theory for the unusual number of books that originate in
                    Indiana. "In Indiana," he said, "there are more
                    individuals, more characters, that is, people who do not think just as others
                    do, more people of ideas; hence more books are produced here than elsewhere.
                    Indiana is the meeting  point of the North
                    and the South, where new ideas are interchanged and new theories
                    developed."
            This speaker from another State had evidently grasped two points: (1) That the
                    commingling of bloods in the early settlement of the State resulted in the
                    production of a people of unusual individuality; and (2) that the geographical
                    location of the State, "the meeting point of the North and the
                    South," makes it a breeding ground of ideas. It is the meeting point of
                    the East and West, as well as of the North and South. From the earliest historic
                    period every Indian trail from the East to the Mississippi
                    river crossed the State; in later years the National road traversed
                    its entire width, and now the great bulk of transcontinental traffic crosses its
                    borders. The cosmopolitan spirit of its people, first determined by the
                    character of its early settlers, has been emphasized by physical conditions.
            It was to be expected that so virile a people, living in an atmosphere favorable
                    to the growth of individuality, should do good work in the way of empire
                    building and social progress. And so they have. The twentieth century Hoosier
                    can "point with pride" to one of the cleanest and best State
                    governments in the Union and one of the most advanced in respect of legislation.
                    The State has been conspicuously free from political corruption on a large scale
                    and from scandals in public life. Its political honors have never been bought
                    and sold. It has never been controlled by corporations or trusts. It has never
                    sent a multi-millionaire to the 
                        United States
                     Senate.
            Its public men who have become distinguished in national politics have been noted
                    for their integrity. Its great war Governor, Oliver P. Morton, who handled
                    millions upon millions of money during the civil war and served for years
                    afterward in the 
                        United States
                     Senate, died poor. There has never been a charge of
                    "graft" in the erection of any of its public institutions. Its
                    present State House, one of the finest in the country, was built within the
                    original appropriation made for its erection. No political bosses had a hand in
                    its construction, and no favorite contractors were given an opportunity to
                    enrich themselves by farming out contracts.
            The State was among the first to adopt the Australian ballot  law, which, fortified by other good election laws,
                    has placed it in the front rank of electoral reform. It was one of the earliest
                    among the States in advocating civil service reform, taking the State
                    institutions out of politics and basing their management on the merit system.
                    All of its public institutions are now on a nonpartisan basis.
            It was the first State to establish a separate prison for women. under the
                    exclusive control of a woman superintendent and women managers. It has made
                    greater advance in prison reform and in administering outdoor charity than any
                    other State. According to recent statistics, Indiana, with a population by the
                    last census of 2,516,462, had 3,335 persons in poorhouses, while 
                        Massachusetts
                    , with a population of 2,805,346, had 5, 387.
            BEST CHILD-SAVING LAWS.
            Indiana has the best child-saving laws of any State in the Union. Its parole and
                    indeterminate sentence laws are the best of any State. It was the first State to
                    have a law providing for a board of children's guardians, by which
                    unfortunate children are rescued from vicious influence and environments and
                    placed in good private homes instead of public institutions. Copies of its laws
                    on these subjects have been sought for by the authorities of many other States.
            Its juvenile court law is the best of any State in the Union and was highly
                    praised in a discussion in the International Prisons ’ Congress at
                    Buda-Pesth. The 
                        New Jersey
                     Review of Charities and Correction, under the caption,
                    "Indiana Leads the Way," quotes with strong approval some of
                    the progressive laws passed by the last Legislature. Charities and Commons, an
                    organ of social reform, says: "A full catalogue of the new Indiana law
                    would show a notable advance in rounding out the State system of public relief
                    and in relating statutes, administration and institutions to the human needs of
                    the people."
            STEADY PROGRESS IN EDUCATION.
            The history of the State during the first century of its existence has been one
                    of steady progress in educational facilities. In the infancy of the State there
                    was a deficiency in this regard, but this 
                    was due to the period rather than to the people. The subjugation of the
                    wilderness had to precede the cultivation of literature, but the latter was
                    simply postponed to more pressing needs.
            At present the educational facilities of the State, as a whole, are not surpassed
                    by those of any State in the Union. Its public school system is regarded by all
                    educators as one of the best organized and best administered of any State, and
                    its universities, colleges, technical schools, normal schools and sectarian
                    institutions furnish ample facilities for higher learning. College-bred
                    Indianians, educated in Indiana, are found in professional chairs and other
                    positions requiring liberal education in all parts of the country. A census of
                    the State University, made six years ago, showed that at that time its alumni
                    included fifty-one college presidents, 129 college professors, 104 city and
                    county superintendents of schools and 1,024 teachers. This was the record of
                    only one institution out of more than a dozen.
            LEADS IN TWENTIETH-CENTURY IDEA.
            All intelligent public educators now agree that an ideal free public school
                    system means extending equal opportunities to all the children of the State
                    alike—those living in the country, as well as those living in cities
                    and towns. No other State is applying this idea as broadly and successfully as
                    Indiana. It is doing so by the consolidation of district or country schools,
                    reducing their number and improving their quality by combination, and
                    transporting the more distant pupils to the central township graded school at
                    the public expense. This is the twentieth century idea of public school
                    progress, and in it Indiana takes the lead.
            The census of 1900 shows that the percentage of illiterates is lower in Indiana
                    than it is in any 
                        New England
                     State, or in 
                  New
                        York, New
                    Jersey
                or 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            School and Home Education, the educational organ of 
                        Illinois
                    , says: "Our neighbor on the East is still in the forefront
                    of all the States in the Mississippi valley in educational
                    legislation."
            PRAISED BY OTHER STATES.
            Reference has already been made to the fact that all of the State benevolent,
                    penal and reformatory institutions are conducted on a strictly nonpartisan
                    basis, and it may be added they  are
                    conducted with an efficiency that challenges the admiration of officials of
                    other States. Governor Durbin, in his biennial message of 1905, after commenting
                    on the remarkable growth in the State's industrial interests during the
                    last decade, said:
            "The progress of the State has not been confined to material
                    development; we have kept pace with the most advanced among our American
                    commonwealths in almost every phase of activity which has claimed the attention
                    of States in the light of a broadening conception of the State's duty
                    toward its citizenship. Our public service has been free from scandal; we have
                    permanently established a precedent more powerful than any statute, that the
                    State's business demands and must receive the same intelligent and
                    jealous care that the honest and prudent business man gives to his private
                    concerns or to the trusts which others have imposed upon him. We have fostered
                    education, we have amplified the beneficence of our benevolent and charitable
                    institutions, not simply by adding brick and mortar to them, but by infusing
                    into their administration more of the spirit of responsibility to the people,
                    and to the State's unfortunate wards. We may safely at this time throw
                    open the doors of every Indiana State institution to the broad light of day
                    without fear that scrutiny will bring reproach."
            PROGRESSIVE METHODS EMPLOYED.
            These words were true when spoken, and during the two years that have since
                    elapsed, the State has made more progress on the lines indicated than it ever
                    did in any like period before. The management of all the State institutions is
                    progressive, and such as to attract wide attention and commendation. The Central
                    Hospital for the Insane, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , has a pathological department, the first of its kind in the
                    country, which is doing work of a high order. To extend the usefulness of the
                    department to the physicians of the State generally, and to medical students and
                    persons particularly interested, clinics and autopsies are held from time to
                    time, and regular courses of lectures are delivered on subjects connected with
                    the treatment of the insane. No other similar institution in the country is
                    doing as good work in this line.
            Under the operation of the. indeterminate sentence law and  other progressive and humane methods, the State
                    Reformatory, formerly the southern prison, is doing excellent work in the way of
                    educating and reforming convicts who are not hardened criminals. In this prison
                    all labor contracts have ceased and the industries retained have become an
                    integral part of the trade school system of the institution. The work that is
                    being done in this institution continues and supplements that which is so well
                    done in the School for Boys.
            SEPARATE SCHOOL FOR GIRLS.
            The State School for Girls has recently been separated from the Women's
                    Prison, thus doing away with the objectionable feature of having comparatively
                    innocent girls under the same roof with convicts, even though in disconnected
                    parts of the building. The new School for Girls has been established on the
                    cottage plan under conditions which promise the best possible results.
            The Indiana School for Feeble-Minded Youth is conceded to be the best managed
                    institution of the kind in the country. In the way of legislation in the
                    interest of children the State has a compulsory education law, a child labor
                    law, a law prohibiting the retention of children in county asylums, a State
                    agency for dependent children to place them in private homes, a law providing
                    for the appointment of township boards of children's guardians, a
                    Soldiers and Sailors ’ Orphans ’ Home, and other
                    semi-public agencies to care for dependent or delinquent juveniles. Such
                    legislation is indicative of high civilization.
            A site consisting of 1,200 acres has been purchased for a Village for Epileptics,
                    two buildings have been completed and patients are being received. The complete
                    development of this institution will be a work of many years, but the State is
                    fully committed to the work. Indiana is the first State to enact a law
                    authorizing a surgical operation designed to prevent procreation of confirmed
                    criminals.
            PROGRESSIVE CRIMINAL LAW.
            It also has a law, the effects of which will be far-reaching, providing life
                    imprisonment for habitual criminals, and another law authorizing circuit and
                    criminal courts to suspend sentence and 
                    parole persons convicted of crimes or misdemeanors. All this is progressive and
                    humane legislation.
            It is believed that the State Railroad Commission of Indiana. created in 1905, is
                    doing more effective work in the way of regulating and controlling railroads
                    than the commission of any other State. The last Legislature passed a law
                    providing for the daily deposit of all public funds in designated depositories,
                    and for accounting to the proper authorities for all interest on such funds.
                    This does away with an abuse of long standing.
            The advancing standard of public morals, which requires a stricter accountability
                    in public officials, makes itself felt also in a general demand for a stricter
                    enforcement of law, the result being a more rigid enforcement than ever before
                    of the laws regulating saloons, a marked decrease in their number and a material
                    lessening of the drink evil.
            The last Legislature passed an act for the establishment of a hospital for the
                    treatment of incipient pulmonary tuberculosis, and in another year the State
                    will have a sanatorium for the treatment of tubercular patients established and
                    conducted on the most approved scientific principles.
            PURE-FOOD LAW ONE OF THE BEST.
            Indiana's pure food law is one of the best of any State, its State
                    laboratory is admirably equipped and its State Board of Health is working on
                    more practical lines and accomplishing larger results than similar boards in any
                    neighboring State.
            Probably no other State has profited more by the services of a board whose
                    members serve without compensation, than has Indiana by its Board of State
                    Charities. This Board was created in 1889 and during the eighteen years of its
                    existence it has been of incalculable service to the State in introducing
                    improvements and reforms in the management of the various State institutions, in
                    maintaining a high standard of official conduct, in seeing that the public funds
                    are properly expended, in greatly reducing the expenditure for official outdoor
                    relief of pauperism, in the improvement of poor asylums and jails and in
                    elevating the standard of institutional work in general. The excellent work done
                    by this board at a minimum of cost to the people is a just cause of gratitude
                         and pride for every citizen of Indiana.
                    Its service to the State stands in the front rank of things which the twentieth
                    century Hoosier should be proud of.
            FIRST WOMAN'S LITERARY CLUB.
            It is a fact of some significance that the first woman's literary club
                    in the 
                        United States
                     was formed in Indiana. This was the Minerva Society, formed at
                            
                  New Harmony, Posey county
               , in 1859, eight years
                    before the organization of Sorosis of 
                        New York
                    . This town of 
                        New Harmony
                    , by the way, had the first free schools in America; the first
                    kindergarten school taught by a trained teacher of the Pestalozzian system from
                    Europe; the first distinctly trade school established in the 
                        United States
                    ; the first workingman's library in the West and the first
                    dramatic society. The American Encyclopedia mentions the early woman's
                    literary club and gives the name of its founder as "Miss Constance
                    Faunt Lee Roy." The pioneer in the woman's club movement in
                    America deserves to have her name spelled correctly. She was Miss Constance
                    Fauntleroy, a niece of Robert Dale Owen, and a native of Indiana.
            MANY OTHER CLUBS.
            The movement thus begun in Indiana in 1859 has spread to many States, but perhaps
                    no other State has more literary clubs in proportion to its population than
                    Indiana. Some of these are exclusively women's clubs; some exclusively
                    men's, and some are mixed, but all alike are indicative-of intellectual
                    activity and progress. With hundreds of literary clubs in operation and with
                    reading circles and libraries forming on every hand, the reputation the State of
                    Indiana as a literary center is Jikely to be maintained. of the State as a
                    literary center is likely to be maintained. been long since a 
                        Boston
                     paper, under the heading, "Is There a New Literary
                    Center?" said: "A newspaper in 
                        New York
                     betrayed, the other day, an uneasy consciousness that possibly,
                    after all, the Island of Manhattan is not the literary center of the 
                        United States
                    . The suggestion may cause some agitation among New Yorkers, but it
                    is doubtful if they much care where it is. Certainly there will be no panic
                    outside the island, because no one in the ‘provinces ’
                    ever suspected that 
                        New York
                     possessed the  distinction. Some
                    Bostonians, a few years ago, while admitting that a reaction would probably
                    succeed the current period of decentralization, remarked the impossibility of
                    any one foretelling where the next literary center would be, and to emphasize
                    the obscurity of the subject he added that for all he knew it might be in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . That seemed, at the time, a grotesque feat of the imagination, but
                    is the contingency as wildly and humorously improbable to-day, when we see
                    Indiana authors commanding a larger audience for the product of their pen than
                    the book-writers of any other State, from imperial 
                        New York
                     to the foot of the Union?"
            LITERARY ACTIVITY REMARKABLE.
            The discussion regarding the literary center of the country is between 
                        Boston
                     and 
                        New York
                    . Indiana takes no part in it. She simply points to the product of
                    her literary workers, as she does to the monument which marks the center of
                    population, and says, "There it stands."
            The literary activity in Indiana in recent years has been something remarkable,
                    though probably only the normal result of educational progress acting on the
                    minds and imaginations of a naturally creative people. It was inevitable that a
                    people whose nationalities were so variously commingled and their blood so
                    curiously blended should eventually produce a literature of cosmopolitan
                    quality, yet distinctively their own. The literary instinct was planted in
                    Indiana at an early day, but it required time to mature and bear fruit. The
                    State had creditable authors before any of those now on the stage began to
                    write. "The Hoosier Schoolmaster," by Edward Eggleston, a
                    native Hoosier and proud of the fact, has enjoyed nearly forty years of
                    uninterrupted popularity and is still one of the books most sought after in all
                    public libraries.
            But what may be called the golden era of Indiana literature is embraced in the
                    last twenty-five years. James Whitcomb Riley, the best known and most popular of
                    living American poets, has achieved his fame within that period. General Lew
                    Wallace's literary fame dates from the publication of
                    "Ben-Hur" in 1880. All of the other living authors who have
                    given fame to the State  are young. It is
                    remarkable that seven Indiana novelists have each produced "a best
                    seller," namely, Lew Wallace, Maurice Thompson, Booth Tarkington,
                    Charles Major, Meredith Nicholson, George Barr McCutcheon and Elizabeth Miller.
            Riley's publishers assert-that no other poet of any country or period
                    has ever enjoyed so large a sale of his works while living as Riley. They reckon
                    that one of his poems, "An Old Sweetheart of Mine," has been
                    read by more people than any other poem in the English language, except
                    Gray's "Elegy in a Country Churchyard." William Dean
                    Howells said: "Without the poetry of James Whitcomb Riley our
                    literature would be so much the poorer that it seems idle to state the
                    fact." Oliver Wendell Holmes wrote: "Riley is nothing short of
                    a born poet and a veritable genius." A short time before his death
                    Maurice Thompson said he came across an old letter from a critical friend in 
                        London
                     who asked chaffingly, "Where is Indiana, and what right
                    has a ‘Hoosier ’ to be setting up for a poet?"
                    This set Thompson thinking and he made out a list of Indiana authors that was
                    calculated to stun the Londoner.
            HOOSIERS DEVELOP RAPIDLY.
            Commenting on the newness of Indiana literature Mr. Thompson wrote: "
                        Massachusetts
                     was within three years of two centuries old when Bryant wrote
                    ‘Thanatopsis ’; Indiana was a little more than eighty
                    years old when James Whitcomb Riley wrote ‘Old Glory, ’
                    and scarcely seventy when Will H. Thompson gave to the world his
                    ‘High Tide at 
                        Gettysburg
                    . ’ We Hoosiers have developed more rapidly than the
                    Yankees. ‘Ben-Hur ’ came out of Indiana less than a
                    century after Clark captured 
                        Vincennes
                     in the howling wilderness; ‘When Knighthood was Flower
                    ’ will compare favorably with any romance written by a New Englander
                    within a century after the landing of the Mayflower. Meredith
                    Nicholson's poems seem all the more fresh, native and true when read
                    along with what the Yankee poets piped one hundred and forty years
                    ago."
            The gist of Mr. Thompson's argument is to show that literature developed
                    earlier and more rapidly in Indiana than it did in 
                        New England
                    . It is an interesting fact that the first published  law reports of the young Western State were quoted
                    as authority in English courts, while the State itself had hardly found a place
                    on English maps. These were the reports made by Isaac Blackford, one of the
                    early judges of the Supreme Court. Chancellor Kent, of 
                        New York
                    , wrote: "It is an interesting fact to find not only the
                    lex mercatoria of the English common law, but the refinement of the English
                    equity system adopted and enforced in the State of Indiana as early as 1820,
                    when we consider how recently that country had risen from a wilderness into a
                    cultivated and refined community."
            DEVELOPMENT OF ART.
            The development of art in Indiana in recent years has been as remarkable as that
                    of literature. Indeed, this synchronism of growth in two of the principal
                    elements of high civilization has been so remarkable as to suggest that the
                    mixed blood which characterized and differentiated the people of the State from
                    the beginning contained the germs of literary and artistic creative-ness in just
                    the right proportions to be developed together.
            Anyhow, it is a fact that at the present time Indiana leads all the Western
                    States in both literature and art. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Art Association, formed in 1883 for the promotion of art, exercises
                    a distinct influence in that direction throughout the State. The
                    "Indiana group" of artists, consisting of T. C. Steele,
                    William Forsyth, Otis Adams, Otto Stark, R. B. Gruelle and others, has achieved
                    a national reputation by the excellence of its work, and especially by the
                    success of its members in dealing with strictly Indiana subjects in natural
                    scenery. In 1885 an exhibit was held of the works of the "Hoosier
                    Colony in Munich." This exhibit included seventy-one pictures and
                    attracted much attention.
            Another impulse to the development of art in Indiana was given by the
                    organization of the John Herron Art School, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in 1895. This institution, well endowed, with an able faculty of
                    trained artists as teachers and with an art gallery attached, is now thoroughly
                    established and is doing notable work. It is within the memory of persons still
                    living when wild  turkeys and other wild game
                    were killed in the spacious grounds and on the very site now occupied by the
                    institution.
            At the 
                        St. Louis
                     exposition, in 1904, Indiana artists had the best exhibit made by
                    any Western State. Of the pictures offered for exhibition in the Palace of Fine
                    Arts nineteen works of Indiana artists were accepted. Only one other Western
                    State was represented by so large a number of pictures in the general exhibit
                    and Indiana artists were awarded three medals. Besides the nineteen pictures in
                    the Palace of Fine Arts, seventy-eight pictures by native Indiana artists
                    adorned the walls of the Indiana building during the entire period of the
                    exposition. These pictures represented a high order of artistic merit and were
                    the means of emphasizing to many thousands of people the high position Indiana
                    has attained in the world of art.
            The city of 
                        Richmond
                     has a group of artists of her own almost as well known as the
                    Indiana group above referred to. That city holds annual art exhibits, which
                    attract much attention in art circles, and a number of pictures painted and
                    exhibited there have passed into the hands of Eastern purchasers. Miss Amalia
                    Kussner, one of the most celebrated miniature portrait painters living and well
                    known in 
                        New York
                     and 
                        London
                    , is a native of Indiana and began her artistic career here. The art
                    spirit which is now so active and which is being promoted by art schools,
                    exhibits and technical instruction in the public schools, is a distinct phase of
                    the higher life and broader culture toward which the people are moving.
            FACILITIES FOR TRAVEL.
            No other State in the union has a more complete transportation system or better
                    facilities for travel and traffic than Indiana. Its system of steam railroads is
                    such that one can leave the capital and visit any one of the ninety-two counties
                    and return the same day, and this is supplemented by an electric traction system
                    that has no equal anywhere. The topography of the State has proved peculiarly
                    favorable to the rapid growth of electric interurban railroads.
            It may be mentioned, by the way, as illustrative of the Indiana  habit of taking the initiative in modern movements,
                    that the word "interurban" was coined and first used by an
                    Indiana man, Mr. Charles L. Henry, a well-known traction railway promoter. At
                    the inception of his connection with the business, about twelve years ago, he
                    coined the word to describe trolley lines connecting cities and towns. It was
                    used in his correspondence and specifications long before it got into the
                    dictionaries.
            The first electric interurban line constructed in Indiana, and that a very short
                    one, entered 
                        Indianapolis
                     ten years ago. Now there are fourteen electric railroads entering
                    the city, operating 400 cars every twenty-four hours and carrying over 5,000,000
                    passengers a year, with a rapidly increasing business. They also handle a large
                    amount of freight.
            ELECTRIC LINE MILEAGE.
            The total mileage of electric interurban lines in operation in Indiana at present
                    is 1,816, and there are 370 miles of new road under construction, most of which
                    will be in actual operation by the end of the present year. The roads now in
                    operation have added largely to the value of the suburban and farm lands; have
                    worked a great improvement in farm methods and farm buildings; have brought
                    cities and towns and country closer together, thus developing neighborly
                    feeling; have stimulated travel which is always civilizing; have added to the
                    pleasures as well as the profits of farmers; have increased the attractiveness
                    of farm life, and made it easy for dwellers in the city to have suburban homes;
                    have enabled many farmers to give their children the benefit of the city
                    schools, and have tended in many other ways to the betterment
                    of social conditions.
            In addition to other transportation facilities, Indiana has more miles of good
                    highways and country roads in proportion to its population and is building them
                    faster at the present time than any other State. The Glidden automobile
                    tourists, who recently crossed the State in two directions, were loud in their
                    praise of Indiana roads and pronounced them greatly superior to those of
                    neighboring States.
            The spirit of progress shown in the material improvement of  the State appears also in its recent legislation.
                    In its pure food and drug laws Indiana is abreast with the most advanced State
                    in the Union and far ahead of most. Its laws for the regulation of railroads are
                    at once liberal and conservative and its railroad commission has been frequently
                    congratulated for its efficient work in correcting such evils of the modern
                    transportation system as can be reached by State legislation.
            The twentieth century Hoosier is very proud of the capital of his State.
            THE STATE ’S CAPITAL CITY.
            Thwaite, in his introduction to "Historic Towns of the Western
                    States," speaks of 
                        Indianapolis
                     as "an example of a town site staked out in a virgin
                    forest by ambitious and imaginative speculators, and, before a house could be
                    built, set aside by statute as the capital of the young commonwealth."
                    This is not quite accurate. A donation of four square miles as a site for the
                    capital was made by Congress in 1816, but it was not located until 1821. At that
                    time there were a few settlers and log cabins on the site, but no speculators.
                    The prospective capital was not "staked out by ambitious and
                    imaginative speculators," but was first settled by bona fide pioneers
                    and home-seekers. The happy location of the settlement led to its selection
                    later as the site for the capital. Although there were no imaginative
                    speculators here then, they came in due time, and have been very much in
                    evidence at different periods since.
            ALEXANDER RALSTON'S SURVEY.
            Although Congress gave the land for the site, it had nothing to do with the
                    laying out of the city. This was done by the State authorities and with a wisdom
                    and prescience which, in view of later developments and present conditions, were
                    remarkable. In platting the city in the wilderness they builded better than they
                    knew, for they planned one of the most beautiful cities in the 
                        United States
                    —indeed, next to Washington, the most beautiful. A
                    well-known Washington correspondent wrote: "A visitor to the Hoosier
                    capital, familiar with the capital of the nation,  instantly observes a striking similiarity between
                    the two. Well he may, for Alexander Ralston, who carried the chains for Pierre
                    Charles L'Enfant, and placed the stakes which fixed the lines and
                    curves of the city of magnificent distances, was the surveyor of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . When, in 1821, he carved out of the small cleared space in the
                    center of a great wilderness the plan, just one mile square, for 
                        Indianapolis
                    , his architectural ability and ambitions had more than a
                    superficial justification. The result was perhaps the handsomest city between 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        Denver
                    ."
            The Indianian of to-day would omit the "perhaps" and say the
                    handsomest city between 
                        New York
                     and 
                        San Francisco
                    . Ralston, who had worked with L/Enfant and was personally
                    acquainted with Washington, spent the remainder of his life in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , died here in 1827 and was buried in an old cemetery now within the
                    city limits.
            It is not necessary to dwell upon the attractions or the commercial advantages of
                    the Hoosier capital. Enough to say it is not only the largest inland city in the 
                        United States
                    , but one of the most prosperous and in a pre-eminent degree
                    representative of the best elements of Indiana life. Situated almost in the
                    geographical center of the State, it is also the center of its social, moral,
                    educational, industrial, literary and artistic activities. It is the ganglion of
                    the moral influences which, concentrating at the capital, radiate throughout the
                    State, making Indiana what it is. It would be altogether too much to say that 
                        Indianapolis
                     is Indiana, as has been said of 
                        Paris
                     and France, but it is true that the city is a fit culmination of
                    the commonwealth, and the concrete expression of the influences that go to make
                    the twentieth century Hoosier.
            
            THE BATTLE OF TIPTON'S ISLAND.
            [A. A. Davidson, in 
                        Seymour
                     Republican.]
            THE only battle ever fought on the soil of 
                        Jackson county
                     by in organized force of militia occurred on the 23d day of March,
                    1813. The fight occupied a space of time of about twenty minutes.
            The contestants were a party of 
                        Delaware
                     and Shawnee Indians and a company of twenty-nine militia
                    "Rangers" under the command of the then Major John Tipton. A
                    year or two previous to this event the Indians had ceded to the 
                        United States
                     all that part of the Indiana territory lying south of a certain
                    line, beginning on the banks of Whitewater, where the town of Brook-ville is now
                    located, and running southwestwardly toward the Wabash
                    river. This line, running through 
                        Jackson county
                    , passed through where Seymour is now located, crossing our present
                    Chestnut street near the residence of Meedy W. Blish, and on westward by
                    Cobb's schoolhouse and to the old seminary of Brownstown and north of
                    the town of 
                        Vallonia
                    .
            After this treaty with the Indians, many people came from 
                        Kentucky
                     and adjacent territories and settled along the south side of this
                    line. Ninety-three families had started their homes irom 
                        Vallonia
                     up the river to near where Helt's mill is now located on
                    Sand creek.
            They had just begun to clear patches for corn and flax and other necessary
                    products when these marauding Indians began their raids upon their homes,
                    stealing their horses and cattle, burning their cabins and murdering any
                    isolated white man they eould find unprotected.
            At 
                        Vallonia
                     there was a fort and a few "Rangers" were kept
                    there as a kind of garrison for the protection of the settlers along the south
                    side of the river. On the 18th of March, 1813, these Indians killed one man by
                    the name of Sturgeon and wounded three others near the fort at 
                        Vallonia
                    . Major Tipton coming the next day to the fort, immediately marched
                    with twenty-nine  men in pursuit of these
                    Indians and on the 23d day of March found their trail in the bottoms, now the
                    Rapp farm, and overtook them in their attempt to cross to the north side of the
                    river on a drift at the upper end of an island. The fight immediately began, the
                    Indians firing as they retreated, and 
                        Tipton
                    's men advancing from tree to tree in close pursuit.
            It is said that a scared Indian is a bad marksman, and so it proved in this case,
                    for none of the militia was scratched; but one noble chief was killed and
                    several wounded and still more drowned in the river as they tried to escape over
                    the treacherous drift. This fight ended all attempts of the redmen to molest the
                    settlers of 
                        Jackson county
                    . Tipton and his men followed the "braves" as they
                    hurriedly made for the hills and valleys of Salt creek, and at last left forever
                    their old hunting grounds along the valley of Driftwood.
            
               
                        Tipton
                     belonged to the Daniel Boone class of Indian fighters and he did
                    more to clear Indiana of the vicious tribes than any other man in the field. He
                    was a man of strong temperament, but of cool judgment. He thoroughly understood
                    the Indian and his tactics and well knew how to counter-scheme their cunning
                    stratagems. He was a strict disciplinarian and enforced his orders with a firm
                    hand. As an example of his fearlessness in this respect it is told of him that
                    when he was following these Indians through Rapp's bottoms, he
                    commanded absolute silence, but as they softly proceeded one big, strong fellow
                    began to talk, 
                        Tipton
                     reprimanded him and again commanded silence, but the big strapping
                    fellow again began to talk. Thereupon Tipton grabbed him, took away his gun and
                    tied him to a tree among the horseweeds, where has was left until the battle was
                    over.
            After the Indian wars were over 
                        Tipton
                     settled down to civil life. He donated part of the land upon which 
                        Columbus
                     now stands as the county seat of 
                        Bartholomew county
                    . He was appointed Indian agent and located at 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , afterward at 
                        Logansport
                    . When 
                        Columbus
                     was first platted it was named Tiptonia, but some of the
                    incorporators of the town fell out with 
                        Tipton
                     on political lines and took revenge on him by changing the name to
                    Columbus. Tipton never forgot the insult and there-  after took no interest in the town. He did much for 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    . He with Jesse B. Durham, of 
                        Jackson county
                    , and others were appointed commissioners to locate the site for our
                    new capital and they selected 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He also surveyed the boundary line between Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . In 1831 he was appointed 
                        United States
                     Senator to fill an unexpired term. And in 1832 was elected Senator
                    for a full term.
            General Tipton was of Irish lineage. His father, Jesse Tipton, settled in
                            
                  Sevier county, Tennessee
               , where he was
                    married to Teanette Shields. Tipton was born in 
                        Tennessee
                     August 14, 1786. He was a cousin of James Shields, who in 1811
                    settled in 
                        Jackson county
                     and was in command of a blockhouse located near the present town of
                    Woodstock. James Shields was the father of the late Meedy W. Shields, the
                    original proprietor of most of the land upon which Seymour stands.
            At or near this fort Mrs. Tipton, the mother of the general, lived in her
                    declining days and there she died and her remains lie under a marble slab in
                    Riverview cemetery.
            So the 23d of March will be the centenary of the battle of 
                        Tipton
                     Island. It is commendable in those who are lineally related to this
                    noted man that they propose to note this anniversary by an appropriate
                    celebration. And surely the citizens of 
                        Jackson county
                     and especially of the city of Seymour, will not let the occasion
                    pass without the patriotic observance due to the memory of General Tipton and
                    his noble followers.
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL.
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
            At the regular annual meeting of the Indiana Historical Society the officers of
                    1912 were re-elected. These are: Daniel Wait Howe, president; Charles W. Moores,
                    first vice-president; W. E. English, second vice-president; J. A. Woodburn,
                    third vice-president; Charles E. Coffin, treasurer; J. P. Dunn, recording
                    secretary; C. B. Coleman, corresponding secretary. Members of the executive
                    committee are: John H. Holliday, Addison C. Harris, Charles Martindale,
                    ‘George S. Cottman and Miss Eliza G. Browning.
            Sundry items of business came before the meeting.
            A sum not to exceed $100 was voted to cover any deficit that might
                    occur in the publishing of this magazine for the year 1913.
            A committee was appointed to present a plan whereby the publications of the
                    Historical Society can be properly distributed and exchanges for similar
                    publications be effected.
            A committee was appointed, also, to consider a plan, suggested by the American
                    Historical Association, for the co-operation of our State and local historical
                    societies in securing the calendaring and indexing of the French archives
                    relating to the Mississippi Valley.
            The annual dues of the society were raised from $1.00 to
                    $2.00. Each member hereafter will receive this magazine free; also
                    the pamphlet publications of the society.
            FIRST WHITE CHILD IN INDIANA.
            A recent newspaper item hailing from 
                        Columbus
                    , Indian tells of a grave tablet just lettered there with the
                    following inscription:  "First white
                    child born in Indiana; John Henry Kluge, born at an Indian station at 
                        Anderson
                     on December 31, 1805, and died at Hope on November 20,
                    1898." Mrs. Nathan Sparks, of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , sends us this clipping with the added information that her father,
                    Burdett Clifton Pile, was born in Indiana Territory March 10, 1805, several
                    months before Mr. Kluge, and that her uncle, Marston Green Clark Pile, said to
                    have been the first white child native to 
                        Clark county
                    , was born November 1, 1802, in old Fort Finney, afterward called
                    Fort Steuben, which marked the first settlement of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . The father of these two boys was Richard Pile, a Revolutionary
                    soldier.
            The absurdity of the Kluge claim is apparent when we remember that in 1805 there
                    had been a white settlement at 
                        Vincennes
                     for perhaps seventy-five years, and even if the claim was that of
                    the first child of English speaking parentage the American occupancy began a
                    number of years before 1805. According to the St. Clair papers, there were about
                    four hundred Americans in 
                        Vincennes
                     as early as 1787. In 1800 there were, as nearly as can be
                    estimated, about 2,500 inhabitants in what is now Indiana. Hence it is tolerably
                    certain that there were many births before 1805. Who the first white child was
                    is not and never can be known.
            A LOG CABIN MEMORIAL.
            Apropos to memorial buildings there comes from Mr. Arthur Osborn, of 
                        Spiceland
                    , a suggestion that ought to be followed. It is that a pioneer log
                    cabin be erected on some proper spot as an object lesson to the present and
                    future generations. This cabin should show the most primitive Hoosier
                    habitation, such as was made before nails and hardware were easy to get, with
                    the clapboards of the roof held in place by weight poles, separated by spacing
                    knees; with the doors hung on wooden hinges, and the chimney built
                    stick-and-clay fashion. To perpetuate the interest in this pioneer domicile it
                    should be a repository of old-time household implements, many of which are now
                    rarely found, being indeed almost forgotten.
            
            In the list of these articles should be all kinds of fireplace cooking utensils,
                    such as pots, hangers, hearth oven, long-handled waffle irons and frying pan,
                    griddles, trivet, etc. There should also be pewter and some old blue china
                    tableware, flintlock gun with shot pouch, powder horn and bullet molds, and a
                    deer-horn gun rack. To this list Mr. Osborn adds tinder box, fireplace tongs and
                    shovel, hand bellows, Dutch oven, Johnny-cake board, various sized culinary
                    vessels, dye kettle, candlesticks, candle molds, tin lantern, corded bedstead
                    and trundle-bed, hickory broom, home-made woodenware and molds for pewter
                    articles such as buttons, spoons, etc.; also the industrial implements, such as
                    loom, spinning wheel, winding blades, clock reel, cards, ripple, hackle, flax
                    break and scutching knife.
            A cabin like this would be of little cost and if equipped as above suggested,
                    would be of never-ending interest. As to its location, we would further suggest
                    that should the ground west of the State House be purchased and the plaza scheme
                    materialize, it would include the most appropriate of all spots, i. e., that
                    where the McCormick cabin stood on the triangle overlooking White
                        river, near the 
                        Washington
                     street bridge. John McCormick is generally regarded as the first
                    settler on the site where 
                        Indianapolis
                     stands—he is certainly the first who can be regarded as
                    a cause in our history; and a duplication of his cabin, as nearly as it can be
                    reproduced, would be so fitting that one wonders why it should have escaped
                    being a feature of the plan projected by the Centennial Commission.
            FIRST MEDICAL BOOK.
            Dr. G. W. H. Kemper, of 
                        Muncie
                    , has a copy of what he thinks is the first medical book printed in
                    Indiana. It is "Eastman's Treatise," printed at 
                        Connersville
                     in 1845. The author was one Dr. Buell Eastman, who came from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Connersville
                     in 1844, and was a resident there for about two years.
            
            LEGISLATION ON INDIANA'S CENTENNIAL.
            The popular sentiment for some proper and adequate celebration in 1916, and for a
                    much-needed memorial building, has been so pronounced that the
                    three leading political parties all incorporated in their platforms explicit
                    endorsement of such celebration. In the face of such endorsement in its
                    platform, our Democratic legislature deliberately killed off, one after another,
                    three bills that aimed to pave the way to the desired end. As a substitute, a
                    bill was passed which will put to the general vote, in 1914, the question of
                    celebration or no celebration. Should the vote be favorable, less than two years
                    will remain to get the machinery in motion, and the prospects for the memorial
                    building to be completed by the summer of 1916, even with the most favorable
                    fortune, does not now look hopeful, unless, indeed, the public-spirited citizens
                    of Indiana proceed to do, independent of legislative action, the thing which
                    they believe will redound to the honor and to the benefit of the State.
            CHANGES IN STATE LIBRARY.
            The recent Legislature has made the State Library a departmental institution, its
                    functions to be grouped as the Reference, the Cataloguing, the History and
                    Archives, and the Office departments. The Legislative Reference Department,
                    hitherto a branch of the library, has been re-established as a separate bureau,
                    with an increased appropriation. The library appropriation was also slightly
                    increased.
         
         
         
            REVIEWS OF BOOKS.
            A CENTENNIAL BOOK.
            By way of educating the public to the plans for an Indiana centennial celebration
                    in 1916 the "Celebration Committee" have put out a beautiful
                    little book of about 150 pages, profusely illustrated with the finest examples
                    of the photographer's art. It is a book that every Hoosier should buy
                    and add to his shelves, not only because this will be a boost to the cause, but
                    because this brochure is one that every Hoosier ought to want. Its contents
                    present, first of all, information concerning the movement and the scope and
                    character of the proposed celebration. In addition, a score or more of articles
                    contributed by as many writers, touching upon the numerous industrial, social
                    and cultural activities of the State, suggest definitely how each of these
                    should take its place in a general exhibit. In the historical exhibit, for
                    example, Professor J. A. Woodburn presents, among other features, a scheme for a
                    street pageant wherein a series of floats and tableaux would present in
                    panoramic order the successive phases of life on our soil from the Indian in his
                    wigwam on through the pioneer period to the present status of literature, art
                    and industry.
            The Indiana Centennial Celebration Committee, consisting of fifteen
                    representative citizens from the thirteen districts of the State, was created as
                    a result of a general meeting held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     May 3, 1912. The chairman is Dr. Frank B. Wynn, 311 Newton Claypool
                    building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The dominant idea of this committee may be gathered from its own
                    statement, as set forth in the brochure:
            "In considering the scope and character of any proposed
                    celebration," it says, "the conventional exposition has not
                    been deemed worthy of serious thought. Such are, in their essential features,
                    great department store exhibits, entailing enormous expense in the construction
                    of temporary buildings which serve the purpose of a day and are torn down; an
                    unwarrantable extravagance.  It is the prime
                    purpose of this committee to inaugurate and promote a method of commemoration
                    which will not only be dignified and appropriate, but give permanency of results
                    to the entire citizenship. Our history, achievements and growth are
                    inspirational. Why not let them speak to the world through the people who have
                    wrought so well? Educational and historical exhibits, demonstrated by experts,
                    will insure the greatest good to the greatest number. They will give that
                    breadth of knowledge which is an asset of value, power and permanence."
            A conspicuous feature aimed at by this movement is a State Historical Library and
                    Museum Building that shall be an ample and artistic supplement to our
                    over-crowded State House.
            The Centennial Memorial book may be had for $1 by sending to Dr. Frank
                    B. Wynn, 311 Newton Claypool building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
            OLD INDIAN TRAIL.
            "The Indian Trail Down the Whitewater
                    Valley," by J. L. Heinemann, is an interesting and valuable
                    contribution to our studies of the Indian in this State. The once famous, but
                    now neglected, Whitewater region has received scant attention in historical
                    litearature, and everything relating to it will be welcome to the student. Our
                    knowledge of the old Indian routes is very meager. Only a few have been
                    definitely preserved, and Mr. Heinemann is to be commended for having added one
                    to the list. A chart of the trail shows it to have been the line of travel
                    between the Whitewater and the 
                        Delaware
                     towns on White river at the present sites of 
                        Muncie
                     and Anderson. It ran northwestward from 
                        Cincinnati
                     via 
                  Brookville,
                            Fairfield
                and 
                        Connersville
                    , passing just east of 
                        Newcastle
                    . Mr. Heinemann's study has evidently been thorough and
                    painstaking, and, incidentally, he gives a number of items of information
                    touching the early days of 
                        Connersville
                    .
         
         
            PROFESSOR LINDLEY'S PAPER.
            "The Quakers of the Old Northwest,", by Professor Harlow
                    Lindley, reprinted from the proceedings of the Mississippi Valley
                     Historical Association, now appears a
                    separate pamphlet of fifteen octavo pages. While the study is more than local in
                    its scope, as the title implies, its bearing upon the history of the large
                    number of Friends in Indiana gives it a local interest.
         
         
            ARCHIVES OF INDIANA.
            A report on the Archives of the State of Indiana, by Professor Harlow Lindley, of
                    Earlham College, has been issued in a pamphlet form. It gives a list of the
                    documents to be found in the following State departments: Governor's
                    office, Secretary of State, Auditor of State, Treasurer of State, Clerk of the
                    Supreme Court, State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Adjutant General,
                    State Library and Board of State Charities.
         
         
            AN INDUSTRIAL HISTORY.
            Mr. J. R. H. Moore, head of the Department of History in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Manual Training High School, is the author of "An
                    Industrial History of the American People." It is a book of 496 pages,
                    profusely illustrated and well indexed, and is a contribution of value to this
                    subject. Macmillan & Company, 
                        New York
                    , publishers.
         
         
            STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC.
            Of the Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History, published quarterly (March, June,
                    September, December), at 
                  Indianapolis, Ind.
               , required by the Act of August 24, 1912: Name of
                    editor, George S. Cottman, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; business manager, Demarchus C Brown, State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; published under the direction of the Indiana Historical Society;
                    owners, Indiana Historical Society. No one receives pay for editing this
                    quarterly, or managing it.
            DEMARCHUS C. BROWN, Business
                    Manager.
            Sworn to and subscribed before me this 30th day of September, 1912.
            AMOS W. BUTLER, Notary Public.
                    (My commission expires June 28, 1914.)
         
      
   
