
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 9, Issue 2, pages 57-120. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:9+issue:2+year:1913&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            CHANGE OF MANAGEMENT
            With this issue the Indiana Magazine of History passes into new
                    hands. To Mr. George S. Cottman, the founder of the magazine, all persons
                    interested in the study of our State's history are under a debt of
                    gratitude, for the self-sacrificing devotion with which, for more than eight
                    years, he almost single-handed carried on this enterprise. That it at last
                    proved too heavy a burden for one of his restricted means, occupied as he is by
                    his own business affairs, should occasion no surprise. Professor C. B. Coleman,
                    of 
                        Butler
                     College, has been an efficient helper in the life of this magazine,
                    and was for a while its managing editor. Henceforth the magazine will be
                    published by the History Department of Indiana University, in cooperation with
                    the Indiana Historical Society and the Indiana State Library, the two
                    institutions which have in recent years assisted Mr. Cottman and Mr. Coleman in
                    the publication. It will be the aim of the new management to enlist the
                    editorial assistance and participation of trained historical workers, throughout
                    the State, who are interested in this field of labor. An indication of the wider
                    cooperation which is expected is given in the list of editors printed on the
                    cover of this issue. With the assistance of these and other coworkers, it is
                    hoped to put the magazine in a class with the best State historical publications
                    of the Middle West. The historical department of a State University is the
                    natural center for such an enterprise; for there are to be found not only the
                    scientifically trained investigators necessary to its continued success, but
                    also, in its seminaries and advanced courses, are enthusiastic students whose
                    energies can be directed into this field of research as a part of their
                    university training. The History Department of Indiana University is
                    particularly fitted for the task at the present moment, for an Indiana
                    Historical Survey is now in progress in that institution, which aims to collect,
                    study and publish the important historical documents of the State with a view to
                    a worthy commemoration of the approaching centennial anniversary of
                    Indiana's admission to the Union. Many interesting by-products of the
                    survey can worthily find a place in the Indiana Magazine of
                    History
            
            For the present the format of the magazine will remain much what it has been,
                    though the number of pages in each issue will be increased.  After this issue it is expected that the number of
                    pages will be considerably increased. When the present volume is completed, the
                    size of the page may be increased to the usual size for magazines of this
                    character.
            The subscription price will remain for the present as hitherto, namely,
                    $1.00 per year. By recent action of the Indiana Historical Society,
                    whereby the annual dues of the society were raised to $2.00 per year,
                    this magazine is to be sent without charge to the members of that society. To
                    permit of the continuance of the low subscription price, it will be necessary
                    that the number of subscribers be very considerably increased. A magazine of
                    this character, appealing to a people so notedly loyal to their State and to
                    their State's history, ought to have a subscription list of at least
                    one thousand. It is strongly urged that all persons interested in this
                    enterprise use their influence to aid us in attaining this result. Perhaps it
                    should be added that no person connected with the publication draws any salary
                    or profit therefrom, and that, for the present, at least, the magazine will not
                    be in a position to pay contributors for their articles. Subscriptions and
                    correspondence should be sent to Dr. Logan Esarey, the managing editor.
            The history of Indiana presents an interesting field for investigation. The most
                    powerful of the early western Indians had their homes within the borders of the
                    State, and some of the most desperate Indian wars were fought on Indiana soil.
                    The development of the State from the pioneer stage to the present has, perhaps
                    more than that of any other commonwealth, been typical of the development of the
                    Middle West. The State government has wrestled with most of the
                    problems—economic, political and social—which have
                    confronted the growing communities of the West, and its dealing with these
                    problems presents many points of permanent interest to the student of American
                    history. Indiana's part in the Civil War was a notable
                    one—in many ways unique among that of the States of the Union. The
                    State has furnished to the country its full quota of soldiers and statesmen,
                    poets and novelists, business men and educators. The sane and scientific study
                    of the history of a single State such as ours, in its relations to the history
                    of the whole country, is one of the best means of furthering the growing
                    understanding of the development of the nation as a whole. Not mere local
                    antiquarianism, then, but sound, broad-minded historical scholarship in its
                    widest relations, is the goal which the magazine sets before itself under the
                    new management.
            S. B. H.
         
         
         
            THE ACHIEVEMENTS AND POSSIBILITIES OF HISTORY
            PROFESSOR JAMES T. SHOTWELL, 
                        Columbia
                     University*
            [An address before the History Section of the State Teachers'
                    Association, delivered at Caleb Mills Hall,' 
                        Indianapolis
                    , May 9, 1913.]
            IF YOU were to consult the last edition of the Encyclopaedia
                        Britannica, following the directions which are so lavishly given in our
                    daily press, and get to the article on "History," you would
                    find at the close of the article the statement that the Encyclopaedia Britannica, eleventh edition, stands as a synopsis of
                    the world's history. The achievements and possibilities of history have
                    to be crowded into a few moments this afternoon, and the Encyclopaedia Britannica does not begin to deal with the
                    possibilities—only the achievements. I suppose, then, that it would
                    have been in order for me to have crammed up a small part of the Encyclopaedia Britannica and given it to you as a proper preparation
                    for the subject in hand, and then to have indulged in a little fanciful prophecy
                    with reference to the possibilities of future encyclopædias, and the
                    job would have been done. But, as I must confess to you privately, that article
                    is not a very good article—I wrote it myself. It behooves me to
                    construct somewhat the general survey, and to present to you as clearly as I can
                    my own impressions, not the impressions of the Encyclopaedia
                        Britannica, as to the place in the intellectual achievements of mankind
                    and in our own educational life that history might and, I think, does genuinely
                    occupy.
            In the first place, I want to say that history began, of course, in the
                    prehistoric age, which is a paradox that can be easily understood; for the
                    prehistoric epithet was attached to many a century, many a millenium of the
                    world's history, by those who did not realize that the pre-literary was
                    necessarily really a different thing from the prehistoric. History began when
                    memory began, and that means that it began with the dawn of thought; it began
                    with the first glimpse in this strange prehistoric conglomeration of animals
                    which became man—it began in him, I say, at the time when he realized
                    what time was, that something happened in the past. It didn't make any
                    difference what happened; it might have been a rhinoceros going past a cave in 
                        France
                    ; it might have been a battle in the heart of Australia. It made no
                    difference what the 
                  
                     * Reported and transcribed by M.
                            McEvoy, Manual Training High School, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Not revised by the author.
               
                     subject matter was, but history began with
                    the human intelligence, and it was the register of what happened to mankind in
                    so far as memory preserved it.
            The first rude possibilities of preserving lay only in the brain cells of these
                    descendants of prehistoric animals; and then, as time went on, tools were
                    evolved and men began to play them back upon their environment. Cutting in stone
                    and in wood, they left us little remnants of thought which we are now gathering
                    up in our museums as the first records of the history of the prehistoric world.
                    But all this memory of prehistoric times is a vastly different thing from what
                    we have to deal with when we are teaching or treating of history. For now I come
                    to the most remarkable thing, the simplest but most misunderstood of all about
                    the old history; for the real scientific history which we are interested in is
                    not this blundering, myth-making history of primitive man, but a science. The
                    real history that we have to do with began—not with believing, but
                    with denying; not with accepting stories that were foisted upon men, but with
                    denying that they were so. For milleniums and milleniums, from the ice age down,
                    I can imagine the old story of what happened yesterday, treasured by the
                    campfires of every prehistoric people. No person was there, so far as we know,
                    to question scientifically the matter of the achievements. History, as we
                    conceive it in our schools, as it ought to be conceived, began over in those
                    Ionian cities on the coast of Asia Minor, where the rocky headlands of Asia
                    Minor tumble down into the Ægean. There in the little seaports began
                    a race of men who began to question the legends of Homer. There was a man called
                    Hecatasus, who began the science of history with these historic words:
                    "I write as I deem true; for the legends of the Greeks seem to me
                    manifold and laughable." As I have said, those are words which sound
                    almost like the scientific skepticism of Voltaire. In the old Greek of that
                    Ionian coast the word "history" meant
                    "inquiry." It meant what the word
                    "philosophy" meant in 
                        Athens
                    , or what the word "science" means now. It was by
                    questioning these long mistaken impressions of primitive man, by getting back
                    behind them, and trying to find out what evidence there was with reference to
                    the point in question, that history, as the Greeks understood it and as the
                    modern world has recovered it, began its existence—by denying, not by
                    believing.
            Now, before I go one step farther, let me say that there lies in that fact one of
                    the most tremendous disciplines that you can any-  where work up in your educational curriculum. I did
                    not come out to fight the battle of history at all, but merely to state the
                    point of view of those who devote their lives to it and find it worth while. The
                    main thing worth while is a temper of mind, and a temper of mind that is bred
                    not necessarily with the aid of chemicals before you where they themselves
                    answer your questions, but where you work out your own criticism with the aid of
                    the historical sciences to find out whether the evidence before you will hold
                    water.
            I will give you some examples of how this important matter might come into our
                    daily lives. You are under the impression that my name is James
                    "A." Shotwell. It isn't. It is printed there; it is
                    very definitely before you. It might possibly go down in small
                    history—that is being taken down, I see—if this were a
                    large enough and an important enough event in the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , it might go down as James "A." Shotwell if I had
                    not informed you that it was James "T." Shotwell. The
                    "T." doesn't matter, but the point does. You hold the
                    evidence here before you from responsible sources; your own historians have
                    recorded the fact that there is an "A." where there ought to
                    be a "T." Now that little incident I want to use to fall back
                    upon for another thing. How would you know that it was not
                    "A."—wouldn't your temper of mind say it
                    is James "A." Shotwell? My temper of mind says that the man
                    who preceded me is Robert N. Fulton. He accepted the name as 
                        Fulton
                    ; I believe the name is 
                        Fulton
                    . But as a historian can I be sure that his central initial is
                    "N"? Well, perhaps that is a little foolish hypercriticism.
            Let me turn over to another line. I have read in the daily papers for the last
                    half-dozen years; in fact, I have been interested in the subject for the last
                    half-dozen years and I have been reading for at least fifteen years the old
                    story that the French people have, in the first place, a constitution which is
                    always in turmoil—I mean a political constitution—and a
                    private constitution which is hardly less peaceable; that they are an excitable
                    race; hardly know their own minds from one day to another; that they keep
                    changing premiers and ministers, and can't govern themselves. I have
                    that on the evidence of the Review of Reviews; I got it last
                    winter in Current Opinion—a pretty good paper in
                    some ways; in the North American Review, the Fortnightly, the 
                  
                            London
                         Times; I have it on all sides. Now, just as I should be
                    inclined to believe that my name was James "A.," I am inclined
                    to accept the accumulated evidence that lies before me that the French people
                    have a  constitution which will not work;
                    that they are changing from day to day and everything is turned topsy-turvy;
                    they need an Englishman like Lord Kitchener to tell them how to govern
                    themselves, or for him to govern them. I have got that impression from all
                    sides. Now, how can I in any way as a historian come in behind that evidence?
                    Well, as a historian, I should, in the first place, be doubtful of that
                    statement, for it happens that I read the same statement in Polybius. He says:
                    "The Gauls are a highly inconstant and excitable people." He
                    got this from Scipio. Julius Caesar said the same thing—surely he
                    knew; and then I come along and find the same thing over in the English writers
                    of the Middle Ages, and I find it in modern literature, and it is even copied by
                    the French themselves. Now, first of all, Polybius wrote at the dictation of
                    Scipio, and his impressions were the impressions of a trained civilian when he
                    met a barbarian, and he said: "You Gauls are as inconstant as the
                    Greeks." Polybius was trying to draw a moral from the cultured man when
                    he met any savage. Then Caesar copied Polybius and followed the same general
                    principle. He found the Gauls inconstant, just as the Englishman finds the
                    Hindoos inconstant; it is a quality of the savage or the semi-barbarous. And
                    then ever afterward every one copied, copied, copied, copied. But you look down
                    French history and you will find that up to the French Revolution France had a
                    much more stable line of history than any other European country. You will find
                    that after the French Revolution, which Englishmen never understood and
                    Frenchmen never understood and no one understood until the last twenty-five
                    years—you will find this statement, that they went from a republic to
                    a monarchy, from a monarchy to a republic, and then back again to monarchy, and
                    again back to a republic; therefore, they didn't know their own minds
                    or how to rule themselves. If you look deeply into that history you will find,
                    as a matter of fact, that Frenchmen didn't care whether they had a
                    monarchy or a republic so long as they were happy; they were not interested in
                    the structure of their government as we might be, and the French Revolution had
                    to do with getting rid of economic troubles, and they accomplished that once for
                    all in August, 1789, and they never went back on that. Look up Voltaire and the
                    Frenchmen of that time, with the long heritage of French society. They said:
                    "But these Englishmen are the most inconstant people in the world; they
                    cut off the head of their king, and then they got a military dictator, and then
                    they got back to monarchy; they can't govern themselves, these  Englishmen." So said Voltaire and
                    so said the ambassador to 
                        England
                     in the time of Charles II. 
                        England
                     was going through its political revolution at that time. France has
                    been going through its political revolution for a hundred years now. It
                    didn't take France any longer than it took the English people to handle
                    such a vast problem. That is one of the political disciplines. You must get the
                    evidence which weighs against the other evidence. You must be aware, in the
                    first place, that the evidence which you are dealing with may be only partial.
                    You must get a habit of mind which is not dogmatic. You must be ready to go into
                    the small and obscure lines of evidence, just as the scientist does, to weigh
                    them over against things which may have got a wrong perspective. And 50 the
                    science of history, from the time of Hecatæus down, has been the
                    science of inquiry.
            You say that is not what I have been accustomed to in history. Xo, we are
                    accustomed to what I should call the results of criticism—pretty poor
                    results sometimes. The person who takes up a textbook—I speak with
                    some diffidence on this matter, but with a free conscience, as I have not
                    written a textbook yet—and believes that textbook to the letter,
                    accepts its point of view as final, such a one lacks the one qualification to
                    use it. You must be aware of the fact that when your author put his material
                    into place he had to shove a great part into the waste-paper basket because he
                    didn't have room to put it in the textbook; and he didn't have
                    time to look up everything and may have got it wrong in nearly all the
                    perspectives, which he would gladly correct afterward if he only had the chance.
                    But sometimes the writer of a textbook doesn't like to go back on it,
                    so he fights for it a little bit. He would go back on some things five years
                    afterward. Why? Because new evidence is coming before us, clearer and better
                    every day, and playing off one thing against another, we are slowly and
                    laboriously working toward the truth. You say this is quite a haphazard thing.
                    What are you going to do in the schools? I will tell you one thing I should not
                    do. I should never accept the textbook as a bible. I had an old textbook in
                    Greek history which had 292 pages on the Peloponnesian war and only
                    three-quarters of a page on the 
                        Athens
                     of Pericles; and I had an idea that was the 
                        Greece
                     of antiquity, and I wondered why any one ever got excited over 
                        Greece
                    . What had that textbook writer done? He copied Thucydides because
                    it was the easiest thing to do. There never was a Peloponnesian war, as one
                    great war. Thucydides created it. It was a great conception  of Thucydides, worthy of those who fought
                     se skirmishes and successful campaigns. It was a series of 
                    but the great genius of Thucydides saw in it a great world even 
                    epoch, the fall of 
                        Athens
                    . So our annalist follows over  and ditches this great
                    historian of 
                        Greece
                     for 292 pages. That is not the history of 
                        Greece
                    . No textbook is final; it cannot be final. The history teacher who
                    uses these things must in addition to teaching facts inculcate some historical
                    discipline into the mind of his students—not into the very youngest,
                    perhaps; there I should be content to give the pictures and the glorious
                    pageantry of the past, but I should try to do it in the light of the most recent
                    investigations and awaken some kind of a sense of what the past is. Remember
                    that the past itself does not exist; it is dead and gone. The opening of this
                    lecture is gone forever, in spite of the immortality it is achieving down below
                    me [referring to the stenographers]; all of those incidents which went into that
                    psychic moment which formed the opening part of this lecture are gone; only the
                    historian can bring it back to us, and he cannot accurately, perhaps. If he said
                    James "A." Shotwell began lecturing at 3:45 on the 9th of May,
                    1913—which I didn't—you would have to work along
                    and check up by all the evidence before you what was the actual fact. Now, how
                    would you bring this into your class work? I remember assigning to my students
                    once Symonds' glorious treatment of the Renaissance in 
                        Italy
                    , where he tells how St. Bernard used to walk by the blue waters of
                        Lake Geneva with his cowl turned over his eyes and
                    intent on his rosary, and never seeing the waters of that lake or the splendor
                    of Mont Blanc across that wonderful sea. And so did humanity pass like a careful
                    pilgrim along the perilous ways of this world, never catching a glimpse of the
                    beauties around them or seeing that life was a blessing. Then one bright morning
                    humanity waked; that was the Renaissance. He saw the world and discovered
                    himself. I assigned that to my students for reading and I told them they would
                    have a quiz. They came crammed to the full with Symonds. I asked them to
                    describe the pictures on the walls of Barnard College. The walls of Barnard
                    College are decorated with a little glimpse here from Donatello, a little
                    sculpture there, and a little painting—copies of paintings from the
                    Renaissance. Those students had been in Barnard College two or three years, and
                    six out of one hundred and fifty could tell me three correct details of the
                    pictures on their walls. Then I asked them when they had waked up, how about the
                    Renaissance. The Renaissance had given 
                    mankind  They had awakened this bright morning and been 
                    since. So you see it is possible, when treating of any event  it back
                    somewhere or other upon the student's experienced means of verifying
                    the data, and you have there the possibilities of one of the most useful
                    disciplines that it is possible to get. I wish I could follow that further.
            Let me tell you what history achieved. It was the absence of this measuring of
                    evidence, the absence of this scientific spirit, which made the chronicles of
                    the Middle Ages so worthless. The chroniclers recorded what they did because
                    they didn't doubt the evidence before them, and the result is that
                    their chronicles are worthless. In the fifteenth, the sixteenth, and then along
                    in the seventeenth century historians began to gather up their evidence and find
                    out that it would not hold water. It was absolutely necessary to find some
                    criterion by which to judge them. For instance, we will say that Charles the
                    Bald was given a Christmas dinner in the year 845 at the monastery of St. Denis,
                    near 
                        Paris
                    , and according to another chronicler he was at a town down in
                    southern France on the same day. (I am making up this story; these are
                    illustrations; there are hundreds of them that you could work up that are
                    absolutely true.) Which of those chroniclers are you going to believe? Now, the
                    chronicle of St. Denis was written five hundred years later, and the other
                    chronicle one hundred and fifty years later. One is very much closer than the
                    other to Charles the Bald. It might seem as if the one that was closer was the
                    true chronicle. But then you find that Charles the Bald felt very jovial after
                    that Christmas dinner and proceeded to give some lands to that monastery. He
                    gave them a hundred acres on one side, fifty on another, he gave them thousands
                    of acres on that same happy afternoon. We commence to wonder whether that was
                    really written one hundred and fifty years after what happened. Along comes a
                    man who knows how handwriting runs. Now, if you have ever picked out a letter
                    written in 
                        England
                     or France or the 
                        United States
                    , or almost any part of the world, you will know that the
                    handwriting is different. So the handwriting changed from age to age. I can pick
                    out a letter written by a Frenchman almost every time; I havn't failed
                    yet in handwriting. So if that chronicle that purported to be written one
                    hundred and fifty years later was written in the handwriting of the thirteenth
                    century, I know it could not be anything but a copy. Then I find the other
                    evidence parallel. I see that it begins with a salutation which they did not use
                    one hundred and fifty years after  Charles
                    the Bald. Let me make this clear. Suppo were to get a letter from
                    France. The Frenchman does not bugin "Dear Sir"; he begins
                    "Sir," and then he ends with a long apology for having
                    disturbed you. The Englishman begins "Dear Sir" or
                    "My Dear Sir," no matter whether he is dealing with a real
                    estate agent or whomever it may be—it is always "Dear
                    Sir." Now you can tell whether the letter is written by a Frenchman or
                    an Englishman. You can tell exactly up and down the centuries. If you got one of
                    Charlemagne's epistles beginning "My Dear Sir," you
                    would know that it was absolutely false. So we have the science of paleography,
                    along with the science of documents—diplomatics, it is called; and we
                    can tell the very year, the very day, the very locality, where and when those
                    documents were manufactured. And the world was full of monasteries copying these
                    documents. So it was by developing and inventing these checks on the documents
                    that the science of history came into existence. Look up some time the history
                    of that wonderful monastery on the boulevard of St. Germain in 
                        Paris
                    , the old monastery of St. Germain des Pres, where the monastic
                    order of the seventeenth century worked at this and gave us more test for truth
                    than all the Macaulays and Gibbons and Carlyles in the whole world. And upon
                    their solid work rests the tests for documents, so that, if you have a document
                    of the twelfth century, you can tell whether it is true or false almost to the
                    letter. So, upon that basis, came into existence this science that Hecatasus had
                    foretold, the science of inquiry into the past, and then the libraries filled up
                    with them. From the days of the fathers who were working in the monasteries,
                    when Moliere was writing his plays, from the days of these grim old fathers of
                    the day of Louis XIV to ours there has been a steady and regular increase in the
                    placing at our disposal of the authenticated records of the past, until at the
                    present time the archives of Europe are full of material which, fifty years ago
                    even, would have required isolated visits to monasteries and private houses and
                    parish houses. In all of the large libraries in America you can sit down in a
                    room with the absolute material at your disposal for telling the detailed story
                    of any great event in European history. Just think of this. There is, as it
                    happens, papal material. The papal material has been better preserved. There
                    were more scholarly men there and they copied every letter from the papal
                    chancery from 1282 to the present day. You can find a printed register of those
                    letters in our libraries, worked out by the scholars since 1887, when the Pope
                         opened these reservoirs of knowledge to
                    the whole scholarly world. So that I can tell that on a certain day in 1211
                    Innocent III wrote fifteen letters, one at twelve o'clock at night. We
                    have the letters, almost hour by hour, for centuries, to tell what every Pope
                    did, how he carried on his correspondence with the monarchs of Europe. There are
                    materials for the history of every state in the continent of Europe at our
                    disposal. We have representatives over there tracing the events which influenced
                    American history and placing them in order. That is an achievement which the
                    historian gets behind. Those of you who take our little textbooks, which seem to
                    contain in them the gist of centuries, should remember that behind them lies a
                    science with its laboratories, doing just as genuine work in its search for
                    truth as the science of chemistry or physics or any other of the natural
                    sciences. I wish I had time to develop this further, for that is a side of
                    history which is seldom brought to the attention of the world. I remember, for
                    instance, my own little college that I went to. We had a library of 60,000
                    volumes, and the trustees came along one day to look at our university and some
                    one told them there were 60,000 volumes there, and they said, "Why, you
                    haven't read all these; you don't want any more
                    books" —an unenlightened point of view which a short course
                    in history would have dispelled. There were not enough books in that library to
                    enable one to reconstruct, in the light of evidence, the Reign of Terror in the
                    French Revolution. You take Carlyle's history of the French Revolution.
                    It is all wrong as history. It is full of wonderful imaginative sketches. It was
                    one of the epoch-making books in my own life. I look back to the time when I
                    opened Carlyle's French Revolution and got a glimpse
                    of the tremendous drama of history, which was to be an inspiration for years to
                    come. But it is all wrong as history, because Carlyle hadn't the
                    material; it wasn't known. Now we have in our libraries the minutes of
                    the Committee of Safety at every session, practically. You can follow meeting by
                    meeting what each one did, how he spoke, what was his attitude on it all. You
                    will find, for instance, that Robespierre never had a majority in the Committee
                    of Public Safety. You will find, among other things, the roll from the city hall
                    of those who received money for killing the priests. I will call them by name.
                    "Tom Smith, baker, 6d, was given six priests to dispose of; Tom Jones,
                    butcher's apprentice, killed one priest and maimed another,
                    10d," and so on. You can find what was the complexion of the mob which
                    invaded that old church of the Carmelites in the September  massacres. Carlyle didn't know any of
                    these things. He was wrong in his wonderful story of the flight of the King to
                    Varennes. He said the King was in a lumbering old coach. It was not a lumbering
                    old thing—it was a swift carriage; and so the story at once
                    disappears in one's hands. I say all of this lies now in the evidence
                    to be reconstructed into our histories. Only the historian who has developed the
                    historical criticism and the critical point of view will know that history
                    prepares a man in a scientific discipline such as one cannot otherwise, I think,
                    get in dealing with the evolution of society. I wish I had more time to speak
                    upon this discipline. I think it is a most important thing; but it is very
                    difficult to get that into any of the lower classes, and I think that if you
                    destroy the faith of your students in what you are telling, without giving them
                    some indication of your good faith, you are going to have some trouble with the
                    rest of the story. What are you going to do about it? I believe the French have
                    solved the problem. They tell the story first for the beginners in a picturesque
                    way. They leave out the problems. They tell the old and dramatic things worked
                    up by men who know what were true. Then they go over the story again for those
                    who are more advanced and give it with a little more problem, a little more
                    insight. Finally, as they come on to the university, they have a chance to
                    discuss things on a more scientific basis. It is checked up from the picturesque
                    on, it is checked up with a full sense of the value of the evidence. Now, that
                    is a problem which I am not able to deal with properly, not having myself had
                    the experience as a teacher except where I could talk out my own particular line
                    and to my heart's content in the university. The student in a
                    university has to take what you give him.
            I want to say one thing, develop one other line, and develop it so that you may
                    get some glimpse of it. The new historical criticism is not only paying
                    attention to the kind of evidence; it is not only following out whether a thing
                    established is true or not; it is trying to get at what things are genuinely
                    important—what things we may leave out. For instance, my Greek
                    history—could I possibly get along without 292 pages of the
                    Peloponnesian war? I did get along without it, for I never learned it. How about
                    the rest of the long pageant of history? Now, I am very firmly convinced that
                    just as the evidence for history must be separated and weighed and all the new
                    evidence brought into play in order that we may have some definite final
                    conclusion as to what was the  fact in the
                    case, so it is absolutely necessary that we must adjust our histories to the
                    really important in the evolution of society. History has not absolute content.
                    For instance, it would be perfectly possible for a person to write the history
                    of the Renaissance —the times of the Renaissance—without
                    any mention of the background of those Italian cities in which that art
                    nourished; such histories have been written. It would be possible, however, to
                    write a much wider and clearer and more philosophic history, showing how the
                    work of the great artists was dependent upon the finances of the cities, how
                    those little workmen in the back streets of 
                        Florence
                     created the wealth of the magnates who employed the artists; and so
                    we should get a social history of the Renaissance in which the life of the
                    artists would have their full and clear setting. There is a choice there. No
                    history could get it all in. There are some things that are so tremendously
                    important that they have to get in. I have been interested in the last five 01
                    six years in what I call social and economic history, history that. does not run
                    along from king's court to king's court, from politics to
                    politics, but which attempts to get at the life of the common people, the work
                    of the world, the history that has never been written yet, the things we do,
                    that we spend the most of our lives at, but which have never been recorded. I
                    have been interested in that, and as my interest grew in it, I looked back over
                    the world's history and I discovered that in the Middle Ages they wrote
                    mainly the chronicles of church history; in the Italian towns, Machiavelli,
                    Guicciardini and the rest of them wrote mainly the history of the Italian towns.
                    When the national state came into existence, they wrote political history, and
                    then they fondly believed that that was all there was. As Freeman put it:
                    "History is past politics; politics is present history." In
                    the middle of the nineteenth century people were winning freedom from the
                    oppression of the past and fighting the feudalism of Europe. This great middle
                    class wrote the history of the middle of the nineteenth century; they wrote
                    politics because that was their main interest; that was the evolution of society
                    along the line of their own evolution. Then came a great fact, the factory
                    system and the rise of democracy. Most of us, I venture to say, whenever I talk
                    to an audience of more than a hundred—most of us are descendants of
                    serfs, nearly everybody in 
                        Indianapolis
                     is descended from serfs. Now, what is our past? How can it be
                    recovered from the nothingness of the past? That is the problem which we are
                    facing at the present time. How may  it be
                    met? If we do not meet it, our history curriculum will disappear from our
                    schools; and I don't care very much whether it does or not, unless we
                    somehow or other meet this problem, because it is a vital problem for us. I
                    don't care so much what a King of 
                        Norway
                     did on a visit to Iceland in the ninth century except as literature
                    or as a polite accomplishment. But I do care very much what bases lie underneath
                    the structure of the state of which I form a part, what forces are at work in
                    the world to-day, and I can find it out only in history. Alongside, not
                    replacing but alongside of the old political history, must come the history of
                    the people over whom the structure of politics was placed or built. You say that
                    there are no records. We will see. I have a course, for instance, which I will
                    just describe. It is supposed to be the social history of modern Europe. I start
                    the course at 
                        Venice
                    , or a little farther back; I start it at the Sahara Desert and that
                    great desert that stretches over to the plain of Manchuria, with a little break
                    up the Nile valley and the Red Sea,
                    and up the Euphrates; that tremendous desert that lies between Europe and Asia
                    and runs up to the roof of the world, the Hindu Kush, down over the desert of
                    Gobi through Mongolia and the rest to Turkestan, making between the East and the
                    West the impassable barrier of the illimitable desert. And then the little trade
                    kept coming and going, up and down those interstices, and that built Venice and
                    the cities of the Mediterranean, excepting Florence. Then they brought down
                    German merchandise from Augsburg into Venice, reloaded it; and all this built
                    those palaces, the result of that European caravan trade which came and reloaded
                    their spices and other freight at 
                        Venice
                    ." That built this seaport, for it was cheaper by sea. Then
                    Vasco da Gama made his voyage, and Venice was ruined. The wharves of 
                        Lisbon
                     were filled with merchandise. I won't go into the details;
                    don't believe me but look it up. Now, we have that transfer of European
                    civilization from 
                        Lisbon
                     to Antwerp and then from Antwerp to Amsterdam and from Amsterdam to 
                        London
                    ; and the north took over the heritage of the Mediterranean. The
                    great sea empire of 
                        England
                     was developed during the eighteenth century, and so you can arrive
                    at the elder Pitt by way of Venice instead of by way of Magna Carta, with which
                    he wasn't very much impressed. So you have the British Empire, not
                    simply a little island in the North Sea, working out its
                    way to empire in a half-hearted way, but an empire wherever English ships are
                    going. There is the British Empire in the hold of the Mauretania when she goes
                         out to sea. That is the British Empire
                    to-day watched over by the courts of admiralty, and whose Secretary of State
                    makes a treaty for us in reference to the Panama Canal. Well, I must not keep
                    you too long. That is one British Empire, but that didn't amount to
                    much, after all, until there came inventions and then the era of machines; and
                    then the people of 
                        England
                     found that the little Old England that George Eliot describes was
                    passing away before their eyes. Then arose 
                        Manchester
                     and Birmingham and all the rest of them. You could wade across the
                    Clyde at 
                        Glasgow
                     bridge when Watt was playing at its side. One hundred and fifty
                    years ago there were only a few families at 
                        Oldham
                    ; there are seventeen and a half-million spindles in Oldham to-day.
                    That is the 
                        New England
                     that came into existence; the new world—the world of
                    modern industry and the revolution that came along with it. And that is history
                    just as definitely as the court of Louis XIV-. It lies behind our modern
                    democracy and it has left its records, for as soon as democracy came into the
                    open and became the proletariat of to-day it began to count itself. We have the
                    census reports and we know how many millions are at work. We count democracy; we
                    do not name it. You can trace down the history of the nineteenth century the
                    growth of this force which has carried us along to the freedom of modern times.
                    That is in the latest histories. That thing is coming along as an explanation of
                    to-day. So history is not simply a pageant of the past—and yet it is
                    a wonderful pageant.
            I think that sometimes when we get discouraged with our history classes and we
                    find out next day they don't know what we gave them the day before
                    last, and next year they act as if they had never had our courses at
                    all—it all happens, I have it right along—we forget that
                    there is as much residue there, perhaps, as comes from the other disciplines
                    which leave their little, little, little deposits time after time, slowly
                    working themselves into the vision of the coming generation. And if we were to
                    leave out of that vision in this age of evolution the story of human evolution
                    it would be the greatest calamity that any nation ever suffered. We have in the
                    nineteenth century seen through the eyes of science that nothing in the world is
                    static, that everything is moving with a vast push. The dynamic outlook of
                    to-day is our contribution. It is that which makes our world different from the
                    eighteenth century, which believed that things had eternal laws and recurred and
                    recurred. The dead weights of the world swing in equipoise, according to
                    Newton's system of the universe. In physics we see, since
                    Young's discovery  of the undulatory
                    theory of light, the theory of ethereal waves, and the radiation of to-day, that
                    even material which seems so hard and solid is a stage of transition. History
                    tells us that it is not only ourselves which will melt away from this audience
                    as soon as I stop talking—and some of us before—but that
                    the desks and the hall and the school and the city and the world itself are in a
                    stage of transition between the yesterday that was and the to-morrow which
                    contains one more chapter in the history of material dissolution. We have found
                    that out in physics; we are finding it out in history. This desk is a center of
                    moving energy, each atom filled with electrons; it is not in a state of
                    permanence at all, but of history. And so I say, as science has shown us that
                    the organic evolution before us stands out more distinctly, that the first
                    amceba in the ocean was merely a transition to other things; with this vast
                    history of milleniums back of us, this evolutionary quality which makes the
                    whole world's history, it would be a tremendous calamity if we should
                    leave out of our historical survey the evolution of ourselves and our society,
                    of our intelligence, of our warfare, and of our institutions. Even if that
                    vision of the transition of things cannot always be before our eyes, it can
                    furnish us a background by which to judge of the ideas of any science which may
                    pass before us-for our criticism. And even if some of us never get into such
                    deep philosophy or carry ourselves along into this complex of sciences, there is
                    left for the least of us, as for those students even in the most elementary
                    schools, the poetry of history. I sometimes stand in amazement in 
                        New York
                     before the splendor of its daring architecture; and my mind travels
                    back to the Middle Ages and to antiquity and to the brains that wrought there in
                    the architecture of all the human past, gathered into the brains that created
                    the Woolworth building, we will say. To stand and watch the creation of the
                    modern world, with some vision of the fact that back of it lay these centuries,
                    with some vision, as I say, of the eternal pull of the ages and the tragedy of
                    the unknown who contributed to it at every stage, I imagine has given me a
                    larger human sympathy and a better outlook into the problems of to-day, and I
                    should be a better citizen for the history that I have worked out.
         
         
         
            THE MORAVIAN MISSION NEAR ANDERSON
            JACOB P. DUNN Secretary Indiana
                    Historical Society
            [A bronze tablet in commemoration of the Moravian mission to the Indians,
                    1801-1806, was unveiled Sunday afternoon, June 2, 1913, at the roadside,
                    directly in front of the the residence of Mathias Hughel, two miles east of
                    Anderson, by Kikthewanund (Anderson) chapter of the Daughters of the American
                    Revolution. The tablet, a bronze plate, 9x12 inches, is imbedded in a large
                    boulder taken from the mission site. As explained on the tablet, the Moravian
                    mission site is one mile south of the location of the tablet, the site being at
                    the extreme south side of the Hughel farm and along the north bluffs of
                        White river.
            One of the members of the Moravian mission, near 
                        Anderson
                    , was named Kluge. His son, John H. Kluge, born December 31, 1805,
                    was the first white child born in 
                        Madison county
                    . Miss Alice Kluge, of Hope, Ind., and Mrs. Bromfiel, of 
                        Richmond
                    , daughters of John H. Kluge, the Moravian missionary, were among
                    the visitors at the tablet unveiling, and none was more interested than they
                    were.
            Other features of the program included ritual ceremonies of the D. A. R.,
                    including a flag salute. Mrs. C. D. Shipley, regent of the local chapter, was to
                    have presided and read a sketch of Kikthewanund, the Indian chief, who was on
                    friendly terms with the Moravian mission. Mrs. Shipley was called out of town by
                    illness and the sketch of Kikthewanund was read by Mrs. Brady.
            The principal address, delivered by Jacob P. Dunn, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was as follows:]
            THE good people of Anderson and of 
                        Madison County
                     are this day doubly to be congratulated. You are fortunate in
                    having this patriotic organization of women who are erecting this
                    monument—women who see and appeciate the value of historic memorials.
                    This organization, with its kindred organizations, is doing more than any other
                    agency to make the people of Indiana realize that they have already a history in
                    which they can take a just pride. And this is a great work, for as Macaulay
                    truly says: "A people which takes no pride in the noble achievements of
                    remote ancestors will never achieve anything worthy to be remembered with pride
                    by remote descendants."
            You are also fortunate in having here a spot worthy of a monument—a
                    spot consecrated by the self-sacrificing efforts of devoted men and women for
                    the welfare of their fellow-men; until you may almost say: "The ground
                    whereon we stand is holy ground." There  were no nobler missionaries than the Moravian
                    missionaries; and there were none that more aptly touched the Indian character,
                    and really changed the natures of their converts. The reason for this was keenly
                    expressed by one of their earliest converts in eastern 
                        New York
                    . His Indian name was Wa-sa-ma-pah, but he was always known as
                    "Tschoop." The whites had named him Job, whether on account of
                    his miserable condition or his wisdom is not recorded, and Tschoop was the 
                        Delaware
                     effort to pronounce Job. He was a worthless old drunkard until his
                    conversion brought him a new life; in which he persevered until he earned his
                    honorable burial among the Moravian saints in the old cemetery at
                            
                  Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
               .
            He said: "The first missionary who came to us argued to us that there
                    was a God; but we said to him, ‘Do you suppose that we are so
                    ignorant that we do not know that?’ and sent him away. Then another
                    came, and told us that it was wrong to lie, and steal, and get drunk; and we
                    said to him, ‘We know that as well as the whites, but they do these
                    things as much as we do. Go back and preach to them.’ Then Christian
                    Henry Rauch came to us, and he told us how God's Son had come on earth,
                    and suffered and died for us, to save us from our miserable lives. That was
                    wonderful; and I could not sleep all night for thinking about it." In
                    other words, the Moravians were the first sect that centered their religious
                    teaching on the infinite love of an Almighty Father and a pitying Elder Brother.
            This was the message that this little band of Moravians—John P. Kluge
                    and wife, Abraham Luckenbach and a few Indian converts—brought to
                    Indiana when they arrived at this place, just about this time of the year, one
                    hundred and twelve years ago, and began their labors. They encountered all the
                    hardships of other pioneers in preparing their simple log home and securing
                    food; more in fact, for they had no wagons, and all transportation was packing
                    by horse or man. But in addition to this they were constantly working for the
                    conversion of the Indians, and here as elsewhere this was a painfully slow
                    process. Their success was not with the prosperous, but with those in
                    trouble—with individuals who had made shipwreck of life through
                    misfortune or folly—with people who not only needed help, but who
                    could be made to feel that appeal from the depths, "Other refuge have I
                    none." To these for five long years they brought the tidings of
                    hope—
            
            
                    "Speaking some simple word From hour to hour, to the slow minds that
                        heard; Holding each poor life gently by the hand, And breathing on the base,
                        rejected clay Till some dark face shone mystical and grand Against the
                        breaking day; And lo! the shard the potter cast away Was grown a fiery
                        chalice, crystal fine, Full filled of the divine Great wine of holy faith,
                        by God's ring finger stirred."
                
            That was their reward. That was the full recompense for all their trials and
                    hardships.
            But these missionaries were not to be permitted to carry on their kindly and
                    peaceful work. The situation was peculiar. The frontier boundary had been thrown
                    back by Wayne's victory over the Indians at the Fallen Timbers, and the
                    Treaty of 
                        Greenville
                    . On account of these, many 
                        Ohio
                     Indians had been pushed over the line into Indiana; and while they
                    had no title to any specific lands, as against our native tribes, they felt that
                    they had, and they asserted an equitable claim that they were entitled to a
                    holding share in the lands here. Accompanying this was the rise of the religion
                    of the Shawnee Prophet Tems-kwa-ta-wa, which was based on a racial brotherhood
                    of the Indian tribes, and a common duty of resisting the encroachments of the
                    Americans. The 
                        Delaware
                     towns on White River were the first
                    headquarters of this new religion; and its leaders and adherents were maddened
                    by seeing treaty after treaty made by Indians friendly to the whites, by which
                    Indian lands were taken from the Indian domain. Remonstrances proved fruitless;
                    and they next adopted the expedient of accusing Indians who were especially
                    friendly to the whites of witchcraft, and executing them as criminals.
            This hostile spirit was painfully felt at the little mission, for the Indian
                    converts were naturally notable as friends of the whites. Disturbances by
                    drunken and reckless Indians increased, and finally, on March 17, 1806, the
                    climax was reached when a band of warriors, in black war paint, appeared here,
                    having in custody old Ta-ta-pach-sit, the head chief of the tribe, who had been
                    accused of witchcraft, and who had confessed in the hope of escaping death. But
                    confession was not enough. One of the conditions of pardon was that he should
                    surrender his witch-bag, and he had none. He had trapped himself fatally. In his
                    desperation he declared that he had buried it at the mission, and they brought
                    him here to point out the place.
            
            They began most ominously by building a fire; and then demanded that the old
                    chief indicate where the witch-bag was buried. He pointed out a spot. They dug,
                    and found nothing. He pointed out another, and again they dug and found nothing.
                    And so it continued until they were convinced of his deception, and thoroughly
                    exasperated. Then his own son sank his tomahawk in his brain, and has body was
                    cast into the flames. All this occurred before the eyes of the terrified people
                    of the mission; and their feelings may be imagined when, on the next day, they
                    learned that Joshua, one of the 
                        Delaware
                     converts who had come with them from 
                        Ohio
                    , had met a similar fate at 
                        Muncie
                    . They were now confronted by the grim reality of their situation.
                    They were not merely in danger themselves. They were bringing death to the poor
                    creatures whom they were seeking to save. What should they do? It was a
                    situation where any mind might well hesitate as to whither the path of duty led.
                    They decided to leave the question to their brethren in the East, and, as
                    veritable Christian soldiers, held their post while messengers went over the
                    long trails to 
                        Bethlehem
                    , and brought back the word to withdraw from the mission. Then they
                    gathered together their little belongings, and, on September 16, 1806, the
                    missionaries, with the two little sons that had been born here to Brother and
                    Sister Kluge, and a few faithful Indian converts, bade a sorrowful farewell to
                    their home in the wilderness and turned back on the long journey to civilization
                    and friends. The mission to the Delawares on White River
                    was ended.
            But the tragedy enacted at this place had a far wider significance than its
                    immediate effect on the mission. We mark the steps of history ordinarily by
                    great events—by acts of legislation, by battles, by treaties; but the
                    causes that lead to these events are movements of human sentiment; and these are
                    what really make history. As has been truly said: "They are not
                    achieved by armies, or enacted by senates. They are sanctioned by no treaties,
                    and recorded in no archives. They are carried on in every school, in every
                    church, behind ten thousand counters, at ten thousand firesides." And
                    likewise, they mature in the depths of the forest, in the rude villages of the
                    savage. This tragedy was a beginning point in the great movement that included
                    the removal of the Prophet and his followers to the 
                        Wabash
                    , the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and the hostility of the Indians in the War of 1812. Here was the
                    first bloodshed, the first hostile act in that mighty struggle; and while this
                    has its distinctive local significance  it is
                    an essential feature of the history of Indiana, of the Northwest, of the 
                        United States
                    , of the world.
            We are in the centennial period of that struggle now. One hundred and one years
                    ago this day, the 
                        Ohio
                     troops marched from 
                        Dayton
                     on their way to 
                        Detroit
                    , under the ill-fated General Hull; and for the next three years not
                    only this western country, but the whole nation was moved by the alternating
                    hopes and fears of war, by victories and defeats on land and sea; until at
                    length American arms were triumphant; and the nation emerged from its second
                    baptism of fire and blood, weak from the struggle, but strong in the victory
                    gained.
            The peace that was then attained was one of the most notable in the annals of the
                    world. It was a peace between the two great English-speaking nations of the
                    earth, which has remained unbroken to this day. You may have noticed from time
                    to time the statements in the public press of preparations being made in various
                    parts of the country to celebrate the centennial of that great event. And who
                    should celebrate it more royally than the people of Indiana? The admission of
                    Indiana to the Union was the first fruit of that peace, for when the dangers of
                    British and Indian hostility were removed, population flowed into our lands, and
                    statehood was made possible. Next year the people of this State decide by vote
                    whether or not they will celebrate in a fitting manner the centennial of
                    Indiana's admission into the Union; and if the enlightened spirit which
                    caused this action here to-day shall prevail among the people, you will be able
                    then to aid in celebrating the climax of the historical movement which
                    originated on this ground.
            But I would not magnify your local interest in this proposed celebration of 1916,
                    because it is of small importance in comparison with your interest as citizens
                    of Indiana. This is a proposal for a celebration by the State of an event that
                    is of equal interest to every citizen of the State—the one-hundredth
                    birthday of the State—the close of a century of growth and
                    progress—a century of organized, independent self-government. And the
                    mode of celebration that has been offered is one that appeals to every one who
                    takes an intelligent interest in the history of his State, for it is essentially
                    and peculiarly a preservation of our history. The plan that has been proposed,
                    and that will presumably be carried out if the people vote for the celebration,
                    embodies four features: 
                  The erection of a memorial building at 
                                Indianapolis
                             for the State Library and State Museum, which are the
                            State's two chief  agencies
                            for the preservation of history—the one keeping the printed
                            and written records, and the other the physical records, the relics of
                            war and peace, the battle flags, the specimens of animals and plants
                            native to the State, and everything by which any feature of the
                            State's history may be presented directly to the eye.
                  The purchase and preservation of the old State capital at Corydon,
                            which is the one historic building of a State character that still
                            remains to us—the building in which the State was born.
                  The publication of the Historical Survey of Indiana, which is being
                            made by the Historical Department of Indiana University, and which is of
                            equal value to every part of the State, for it will be a mine of
                            information as to local history, as well as State history, and will
                            correct many errors that have been made in the past.
                  A temporary celebration, with public meetings, addresses, historical
                            displays, and other features of public interest, in which every part of
                            the State will participate, and which will impress on the present and
                            the rising generation something of the trials and labors of our pioneer
                            forefathers, who laid the foundations of our commonwealth.
               
            
            I speak of this to you because your presence here shows your interest in
                    historical matters; and because this occasion furnishes the answer to the only
                    objection that has been offered to the proposed celebration in
                    1916—an objection based wholly on a strange local
                    prejudice—that the proposed centennial building is to be erected at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and that therefore it ought to be regarded as a local affair of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The first answer to this, which is furnished here, is that there
                    are some things whose location is necessarily fixed, and among them are historic
                    places. This spot cannot be moved. The events which we commemorate to-day
                    occurred here; and this is the only place where they can fittingly be
                    commemorated. The historic impress made by the Moravian missionaries and the
                    Indians with whom they labored is fixed indelibly, forever, on this piece of
                    ground. It is yours especially to preserve and care for, because you live in
                    this vicinity.
            But that does not make these events any the less interesting features of the
                    history of the State. It is on account of their general interest that the
                    Indiana Historical Society has been endeavoring for several years to gather all
                    the information it could concerning them. I am glad to say that it has found the
                    original diary that was kept here for five years by the missionaries, and has
                    had it translated from the original German into English; and we hope soon,  with the aid of Mr. Brady, who is to edit
                    it, to have it in print, and within the reach of every citizen of the State. For
                    like reasons the society secured and published the diary of William Owen, which
                    deals with the early history of 
                        New Harmony
                    , in 
                        Posey County
                    . For like reasons it sent over to France, and through the aid of
                    Consul General Gowdy, secured and published all of the papers that could be
                    found in the public archives there, concerning the early French settlements on
                    the Wabash River. For like reasons this society, and the
                    several patriotic societies of the State, are contributing to the support of the
                    Indiana Magazine of History, which publishes historical material relating to
                    every part of the State. In other words, these organizations are proceding on
                    the basis that the history of Indiana is of necessity largely composed of events
                    that are in one sense local to the several municipal units that make up the
                    State, and there is no other rational basis on which they could proceed.
            Likewise the State, in what historical work it has done, has gone on the same
                    basis. It erected a monument at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     battleground. It erected a monument at the site of the Potawatomi
                    mission at Twin Lakes, from which began the last great
                    removal of our Indians to the West. It erected a monument at the graves of the
                    victims of the Pigeon Roost massacre. And it did these things because the events
                    thus commemorated, while they were in a sense local, were parts of the history
                    of the whole State, and things which the State as a State should hold in memory.
                    These were worthy and proper things to do, and it is a matter for just pride
                    that no voice was raised against these expenditures of the State. So the State
                    Library gathers and preserves every scrap of local history that it can obtain;
                    every work of an Indiana writer that can be had. So the State Museum gathers and
                    preserves historic memorials from every part of the State.
            The proposed celebration of 1916 is unique in that it contemplates a monument
                    which shall be a thing of enduring practical use to the people of the entire
                    State, by housing the historical agencies of the State. And this is a matter of
                    practical necessity on account of the crowded condition of the State House. The
                    growth of the State and the increase of public business have not only filled
                    every room originaly intended for use, but have also forced the shutting off of
                    available corridors, and converting them into rooms. Every member of our recent
                    Legislatures is aware that there are no longer any rooms available for committee
                    rooms, and that legislative committees  are
                    obliged to meet in the offices of the various State departments, interfering
                    with their work, and often interfering with a proper consideration of
                    legislative business. By removing the State Library and State Museum from the
                    capitol building, it can be given over entirely to the needs of public business.
            This is an inevitable effect of the development of a State. The 
                        United States
                     government was forced to take similar action many years ago; and
                    now not only the National Library and the National Museum, but also all of the
                    executive departments have been removed from the capitol; and the original
                    building, with its two large wings, is used exclusively by Congress, and in
                    addition it has been necessary to put up two great buildings for committee work,
                    one for the Senate and one for the House of Representatives. ‘A
                    number of the States of the Union have been obliged to take similar action, on
                    account of the growth of public business that necessarily accompanies an
                    increase of population and the development of institutions that call for public
                    supervision.
            In our case the lack of room is especially detrimental, because the State Library
                    and the State Museum are worse overcrowded than any of the other departments,
                    and on account of this both of them have been obliged to refuse donations of
                    valuable material, for the lack of room to keep it properly. The battle flags of
                    the Indiana regiments, which are finally being adequately restored and cared
                    for, are placed in the corridors, because there is no other place for them. Can
                    any one say that a continuance of these conditions is creditable to the great
                    State of Indiana? Of necessity these two institutions must be located at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , because it is the seat of government, and they are adjuncts of
                    government. But it should be remembered that it is the seat of State
                    government—not merely the government of any one county, but the
                    government of the people of every county, from the 
                        Ohio
                     to Lake Michigan. And all the historic
                    memories that accompany a seat of government cluster about it. It was there that
                    the laws were enacted that have made Indiana one of the foremost in the ranks of
                    progressive States. It was there when war came that Indiana's sons
                    assembled to go forth for the protection of their country. It was there when war
                    was ended that the veterans returned to receive the plaudits of their
                    fellow-citizens and to resume the duties of peaceful life. It was {here that the
                    great political and civic gatherings of the State have been held. What more
                    appropriate than that there should be at the capital of the State a great
                    library where the history of every part of the State can be  found, and a great museum, open to all the people
                    of the State, which shall be to Indiana what the National Museum at 
                        Washington
                     if to the nation?
            It would be a blessing to Indiana if we could develop an intelligent State pride,
                    as we have developed an intelligent national pride, for our national pride is a
                    thing of development. There was a time—a long time—when
                    sectional envy and jealousy threatened to disrupt the nation; and in that
                    troublous period, the words of that great American, Daniel Webster, came to the
                    whole people as a bugle call to the defense of the Union. You know the story.
                    Senator Hayne of 
                        South Carolina
                     had disparaged 
                        Massachusetts
                     in comparison with his own State, and with infinite tact, Webster
                    declined to enter into any defense of 
                        Massachusetts
                    . He said: "She needs none. There she is. Behold her and
                    judge for yourselves. There is her history; the world knows it by heart. The
                    past, at least, is secure. There is 
                        Boston
                    , and Concord, and 
                        Lexington
                    , and Bunker Hill; and there they will remain
                    forever. The bones of her sons, falling in the great struggle for independence,
                    now lie mingled with the soil of every State from 
                        New England
                     to 
                        Georgia
                    , and there they will lie forever."
            But rising to still greater heights, he said: "I shall not acknowledge
                    that the honorable member goes before me in regard for whatever of distinguished
                    talent or distinguished character 
                        South Carolina
                     has produced. I claim part of the honor, I partake in the pride of
                    her great names. I claim them for my countrymen, one and all, the Laurenses, the
                    Rutledges, the Pinckneys, the Sumters, the Marions—Americans
                    all—whose fame is no more to be hemmed in by State lines than their
                    talents and patriotism were capable of being circumscribed within the same
                    narrow limits. In their generation they served and honored the country, and the
                    whole country; and their renown is of the treasures of the whole country. Him
                    whose honored name the gentleman himself bears—does he esteem me less
                    capable of gratitude for his patriotism, or sympathy for his sufferings, than if
                    his eyes had first opened upon the light of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , instead of 
                        South Carolina
                    ? Sir, does he suppose it is in his power to exhibit a 
                        South Carolina
                     name so bright as to produce envy in my bosom? No, sir; increased
                    gratification and delight, rather. I thank God that, if I am gifted with little
                    of the spirit which is to raise mortals to the skies, I have yet none, as I
                    trust, of that other spirit which would drag angels down. When I shall be found,
                    sir, in my place here in the Senate, or elsewhere, to sneer at public merit,
                    because it happens to spring up beyond the little limits  of my own State or neighborhood; when I refuse, for
                    any such cause, or for any cause, the homage due to American talent, to elevated
                    patriotism, to sincere devotion to liberty and the country; or if I see an
                    uncommon endowment of Heaven, if I see extraordinary capacity and virtue, in any
                    son of the South; and if, moved by local prejudices or gangrened by State
                    jealousy, I get up here to abate the tithe of a hair from his just character and
                    just fame, may my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth."
            And so he went on in that wonderful plea for a national sentiment till he
                    concluded with that immortal motto: "Liberty and Union, now and
                    forever, one and inseparable." You older people will remember when you
                    used to have that speech in your reading-books; and I wish it were still in
                    them, for as an unquestionable historic fact no one utterance contributed so
                    much as this to building up our national sentiment, and insuring the
                    preservation of the Union when the shock of war finally came. And the patriotic
                    organization that dedicates this monument to-day, with its kindred
                    organizations, is perfecting that great work of cementing our common country. It
                    is nothing to them that one's ancestors were from 
                        Massachusetts
                    , or 
                        South Carolina
                    , or 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The tie that binds them is that those ancestors stood shoulder to
                    shoulder in the struggle for independence. And so, woman has become not
                    only— 
                        "A link among the years, to knit The generations each to
                            each."
                     but also a link among our commonwealths to bind them in a common
                    fatherland.
            Moreover, these noble women are doing a similar service for Indiana. They are
                    helping to make the lines that divide our counties as imaginary in sentiment as
                    they are on our soil. And why should this not be the sentiment of every citizen
                    of Indiana? Is James Whitcomb Riley the less an Indianian because he was born in 
                        Hancock County
                    ? Was Oliver P. Morton the less an Indianian because he was born in 
                        Wayne County
                    ? Was Lew Wallace the less an Indianian because he was born in 
                        Franklin County
                    ? Was Captain James B. Eads the less an Indianian because he was
                    born in 
                        Dearborn County
                    ? Was Joseph Joaquin Miller, who passed away a few days ago at his
                    adopted home on the Pacific slope, the less an Indianian because he was born in 
                        Union County
                    ? Not so. These men were products of our State, and we may all
                    justly take pride in their achievements. And so this simple monument that we
                    dedicate here  is not merely a monument of
                    Kik-the-wa-nund Chapter, not merely a monument of Anderson, or 
                        Madison County
                    , but a memorial of Indiana and of the nation.
            My friends, the ashes of old Ta-ta-pach-sit, which were scattered here, may be
                    springing in the violet or the wild poppy. We cannot tell. But this I know: They
                    are not rising in any fairer flower than the flower of sentiment that is
                    springing here from the memories of this place. And this should be the spiritual
                    State flower of Indiana—a flower to be planted wherever a worthy deed
                    or a memorable event has occurred—a flower which shall enwreathe
                    every monument we may raise to the past—a flower that may be laid on
                    the grave of every worthy son and daughter of Indiana, as a loving tribute from
                    a grateful commonwealth.
         
         
            LIFE IN INDIANA, 1800-1820
            ROLLA M. HOGUE, A.M., 
                        Vincennes
                     High School
            HOW many people were living in the Territory of Indiana in 1800 probably no one
                    knows. The Territory at that time included all the land between the British
                    possessions on the north; a line running from the mouth of the
                        Kentucky River to Port Recovery, now in western 
                        Ohio
                    , thence north to the British possessions, on the east; the
                        Ohio River on the south, and the Mississippi
                        River on the west. This was divided first into four parts—
                        Knox County
                    , comprising a little more than the entire eastern half; 
                        Randolph County
                    , touching the 
                        Ohio
                     and the Mississippi rivers, just west of the
                    southern point of 
                        Knox County
                    ; immediately north of 
                        Randolph
                     and west from the 
                        Knox County
                     line 
                        Saint Clair County
                     extended to the 
                        Mississippi
                     and Illinois rivers; the remainder was a long
                    north and south strip of unorganized territory in the northwest.1
            
            The population of Indiana in 1800 was estimated at 4,875.a In
                    1810, after the 
                        Illinois
                     Territory had been separated from it, Indiana had a population of
                    24,520; by 1820 the population was 147,178.s When the
                    territorial government was formed in 1800 the chief centers of settlement were
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                     and in the southeastern part of the territory, on or near the
                        Ohio River. A few years later the 
                  
                     1 See maps by B. V. Shockley In Indiana University
                            Library.
                  
                     2 Tucker, Progress of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , p. 19.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., pp. 24, 32.
               
                     Quakers, coming from 
                        North Carolina
                    , began to settle on the present site of 
                        Richmond
                    . As the population continued to grow by immigration it spread along
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    , the 
                        Ohio
                     and up the Whitewater valley. This spread of
                    population in the Territory was from south to north, for the immigrants entered
                    through 
                        Kentucky
                    , or by way of the Ohio River, floating their
                    boats down from 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . As south central Indiana was more rugged than the borders, east as
                    well as west, the central strip of the Territory lagged behind in the northward
                    push of population.’ The tide of immigration from the Eastern States
                    was not very strong until after the completion of the Erie Canal in 1825. After
                    that date, however, the immigration into northern Indiana was very marked, by
                    way of the Maumee-Wabash valley.’ But that there
                    was a considerable number of people going to the West from 
                        New England
                     is indicated by a note in Niles' Weekly
                        Register for November 29, 1817, which reports a company of 116 persons,
                    with more than twenty wagons, on their way to Indiana, all having come from one
                    town in the district of 
                        Maine
                    .
            The natural waterways were much used as routes of travel during the early history
                    of Indiana. One reason was that the forests in many places were so dense as to
                    be a serious impediment to the passage of wagons and carts. Then, too, one might
                    more readily protect himself from injury in case of attack by Indians if he were
                    on a boat than if he were on land. On a trip down the 
                        Mississippi
                     in 1808, a Mr. Bradbury wrote of broad boards on the boat designed
                    for such protection.’ The day of canals had not yet come. By 1805,
                    however, steps had been taken looking toward the construction of a canal around
                    the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     at 
                        Louisville
                    .8 This scheme came to naught. A canal was put
                    in operation at this point in 1830, however.9
            
            The first roads of Indiana were blazed trails through the forests. These were
                    laid out by the settlers taking their axes and cutting away and removing enough
                    of the trees and logs that wagons might be enabled to pass, and at short
                    intervals hewing off the bark from 
                  
                     4 Wasson, John M., Annals of Pioneer
                                Settlers, p. 9.
                  
                     5 See maps by E. V. Shockley; also Lois Kimball
                            Mathews, The Expansion of 
                                    New England
                                
                     , maps, pp. 198, 206; also Ellen C. Semple, American History and Its Geographic Conditions, maps,
                            pp. 71, 108, 152.
                  
                     6 Benton, Elbert Jay, The 
                                    Wabash
                                 Trade Route in the Development of the Old
                            Northwest (in Johns Hopkins University Studies, Series XXI).
                  
                     7 Thwaites, R. G., Early Western
                                Travels, V, p. 187.
                  
                     8
                            
                        Ohio Valley Historical
                            Miscellanies—A tour in Indiana, 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Kentucky
                             In 1805, p. 14.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., p. 16, note.
               
                     a tree so the traveler might be able to keep
                    the road by means of these "blazes" on the trees.
            In giving directions for a new trace near the Patoka River
                    in 1807, W. H. Harrison, Governor of Indiana Territory, directed that it be
                    opened only seven or eight feet wide, as it was for foot soldiers chiefly, not
                    for wheeled vehicles or sleds. The men were to cut the brush and blaze the trees
                    and need not follow a straight line, but wind about so as to avoid hilly ground,
                    trees and logs.
            In many cases the road followed some trace or old Indian trail, and might then
                    require less clearing or marking. The need for roads was so keenly felt that a
                    law of 1807 required all males, resident in the township for thirty days,
                    between the ages of twenty-one and fifty years, to work on the roads as much as
                    twelve days a year if the road supervisor deemed so great an amount of labor
                        necessary.10 The court of common pleas was to order new
                    roads opened up to the necessary width, not exceeding sixty-six feet. At each
                    mile a mile-post was to be erected, marked with the number of the mile. At the
                    forks of each highway the road supervisor was required to erect and keep a
                    signpost "directing the way and mentioning the most remarkable places
                    on each road." Ten dollars was forfeit to the supervisor, for the use
                    of the roads, from any one defacing or altering this inscription so as to
                    destroy its utility.11
            
            As population grew the time required to work on roads was reduced—in
                    1818 to not over six days for males over eighteen years of age.12 The width of roads to be opened was at that time fixed at thirty-three
                    feet, instead of sixty-six feet as in 1807. The same act also provides for
                    private cartways, as had the act of 1807. These might be closed by means of
                    gates, but the public was to be allowed to use them. They were to be not over
                    eighteen feet in width and maintained by those petitioning for their
                    establishment.
            The demand for roads was evidently being in considerable degree met, for an act
                    approved December 31, 1818, required only those between the ages of eighteen and
                    fifty to labor on roads, and fixed the time at two days and no
                    more—except that the land tax for roads might be worked out at the
                    rate of 75 cents per day.
            The bridging of the smaller streams was a duty of the supervisor and the road
                    laborers in his district. But the judges of the courts of common pleas were
                    empowered to have bridges built and 
                  
                     10 Lows of Indiana, 1807, p.
                            296.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 1807, p. 302.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 1818, p. 273.
               
                     paid for by the county if they thought it
                    too heavy a burden for the district to bear in the given case.13
            
            Toll bridges were of frequent occurrence in the early history of the State. An
                    act of the Legislature, approved January 1, 1819, authorized John Barricklow and
                    Gideon Cummings to build a toll bridge over Laughery Creek, in 
                        Dearborn County
                    , at the town of 
                        Hanover
                    . The statute required it to be at least sixteen feet wide in the
                    clear, with a good railing on the sides, "for whatever might pass that
                    way"; it was not to be allowed to obstruct the navigation of the creek;
                    the mail and troops were to pass the bridge free; the commissioners of the
                    county were to fix the rates of toll; these rates were to be posted on the
                    bridge in large print, in the English language; after thirty years the county
                    might buy the bridge at a price fixed by five men—two chosen by the
                    county, two by the owners of the bridge, and a fifth chosen by these four; the
                    county was not to open another bridge nor a ferry within a mile of this bridge
                    while it was kept in repair as a toll bridge.14
            
            The bridges of the early days in Indiana were built almost entirely of wood, if
                    not quite so. Stone came into use for the piers of the larger bridges. Small
                    streams were bridged by throwing trunks of trees across the stream for
                    "sleepers," then on these a floor of heavy poles or of logs
                    split in halves was laid. The smaller bridges were not roofed, but larger ones
                    frequently, if not usually, were. This protected the wooden pins from
                    decay—for the timbers were mortised and pinned together; iron bolts
                    for such purposes were not yet in use.
            As time passed the demands for better roads, instead of the miles of mudholes and
                    stumps, led to the use of corduroy roads. These were made by paving the road
                    with poles laid side by side as closely as possible, directly across the track.
                    Many of these roads were very rough. Numbers of them, however, were made of
                    rails. If the rails were so placed as to have a flat surface upward, the road
                    could be made rather smooth, even for the wagons of those days, which had no
                    springs for the seat. The plank road (usually a toll road), which came a little
                    later, proved rather an expensive luxury, and was not very popular.
            Before the War of 1812 came on the Congress of the 
                        United States
                     was taking steps looking toward the building of roads in Indiana.
                    On motion of Jonathan Jennings, delegate from the Territory 
                  
                     13
                            Laws of Indiana, 1807, p. 304.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 1818, 1819, p. 135.
               
                     on December 19, 1810, a committee of three
                    was appointed to inquire into the expediency of extending the 
                        United States
                     road from 
                        Vincennes
                     to the eastern boundary of 
                        Dearborn County
                    , Indiana, there to meet the State road from 
                  Chillicothe, Ohio
               . Similar action was taken January 4, 1811, in
                    regard to a road from 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, to 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               . On January 28, 1811, Mr. Jennings presented a
                    petition from Indiana praying for 
                        United States
                     funds to build a road from 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Indiana, to 
                  Detroit, Michigan
               .15 This at least shows
                    something of the concern for road construction. Nothing seems to have come of
                    it, however. But when the enabling act for creating the State of Indiana was
                    passed, one section provided that 5 per cent, of the proceeds of government land
                    sales should be used for roads—3 per cent, thereof to be used in the
                    State under direction of the General Assembly, 2 per cent, used by Congress for
                    constructing a road or roads to the State.16
            
            For vehicles of travel the early settlers of the Middle West had the canoe, the
                    pirogue, the 
                        Kentucky
                     boat (or ark as it was called on the northern rivers), the
                    flatboat, and after 1812 the steamboat; and on land the sled, cart, or wagon
                    used by the farmer, the stagecoach, the horse and saddle, and occasionally a
                    carriage or chaise.
            Carts were in use very early in Indiana—in fact, it is said the French
                    used them to transport stores at the Maumee-
                        Wabash
                     portage before the English occupation. They were used by farmers to
                    haul wood to market and to bring grain in from the fields or to take it to the
                    mill. Sleds were employed for the same purposes.
            The wagons were rather clumsy. In some cases, at least, both carts and wagons had
                    wheels made of cross sections of a large tree, usually a black gum. Such a wagon
                    was called a truck. A four-inch hole was made in which to insert the axle. The
                    tongue was made of white oak, split and inserted in the front axle. The coupling
                    pole was fitted in the center of the axles and then pinned. Then heavy bolsters
                    were put on and on these was fastened the bed made of boards.17
            
            Blacksmiths had plenty of work to do in supplying the demand for vehicles and
                    tools. Broken wagons were not discarded for new ones, however. If a tire came
                    loose, the teamster stopped, cut a tough sprout, usually a hickory, twisted it
                    until it was quite flexible, then wrapped this withe round and round tire and
                    felloe and tied 
                  
                     15
                            Annals of Congress, 1810-11, pp. 450, 487, 830.
                  
                     16 The Enabling Act of 1816 is printed in the Revised Laws of Indiana, 1831. See the section on p.
                            36.
                  
                     17 Cockrum, Wm. M., Pioneer History
                                of Indiana, p. 320.
               
                     it as we would tie a rope. Then his wagon
                    was ready for long-continued service, or at least until he could have the tire
                    "cut"—that is, slightly shortened and
                    replaced—by a blacksmith.
            Carriages were not plentiful. Some of the more well-to-do in the towns had them.
                    Occasionally, too, some European traveler on a scientific tour or a trip to
                    invest in western lands drove through in his chaise or carriage.
            The canoe used by the early settler was a log hollowed out with his ax, or his
                    adz, if he were so fortunate as to possess one. The pirogue was made by
                    splitting a canoe and inserting a broad board lengthwise through the center.18 This considerably increased the capacity of the craft.
            The most important boats on the western rivers before the advent of the steamboat
                    were the flatboats. They seem to have been the same as the 
                        Kentucky
                     boat or the ark. They would carry several tons. Mr. Bradbury, an
                    Englishman, who was collecting botanical specimens in the West in 1816, says the
                    arks made for descending the Ohio River from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     were flat-bottomed boats, about fifty feet long; they were made
                    only fourteen feet wide, so they might pass through the chute on the Indiana
                    side at the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     near 
                        Louisville
                    . An ark for four or five families and twenty-five or thirty tons of
                    goods could be bought for $75.00. It could be sold for nearly its
                    cost six hundred or eight hundred miles farther down.19
                    Burnet says they were made of green oak plank, fastened by wooden pins to a
                    frame of timber, and caulked with tow or any other pliable substance that could
                    be secured. Their material was sometimes used to make temporary buildings for
                    protection from the weather, or for safety, when the cargo to 
                        Louisiana
                     was landed along the coast.20
            
            Sometimes some of these boats made the trip up the streams. They were propelled
                    against the current by being "poled"—pushed forward
                    by means of a pole applied to the bottom of the stream by the oarsman. It was
                    hard work to stand up thus and push all day, but the strongest part of the
                    current was avoided in the ascent if possible. In 1811 one was reported to have
                    made the trip from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana, in ninety-seven days—a quick passage.21 These boats were built in summer and floated out 
                  
                     18
                            A Popular History of Indiana, p. 121. The introduction
                            of this book is by Mrs. Thomas A. Hendricks. No author's name
                            appears.
                  
                     19 Thwaites, Western Travels, V,
                            p. 301.
                  
                     20 Burnet, Jacob, Notes on the
                                Northwest Territory, p. 49.
                  
                     21 Smith, W. H., History of the State
                                of Indiana, II, p. 644.
               
                     to the 
                        Ohio
                     from the smaller streams when the freshets came, loaded with the
                    produce of the farms.
            A Mr. Cumming, on a tour of the West in 1807-1809, tells of seeing one of these
                    boats, a "keel" of forty tons, propelled by means of horse
                    power. An axle crossed the boat bearing on each end eight paddles. The six
                    horses used walked round and round on a platform built above other parts of the
                    boat. It made about twenty miles per day against the current. The owner was
                    disposing of a cargo of sugar brought from 
                        New Orleans
                    .22
            
            The first steamboat on the rivers of the central part of the 
                        United States
                     seems to have been built at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1811. It was the "
                        New Orleans
                    ," built for Nicholas J. Roosevelt by Livingston and 
                        Fulton
                    . Its first trip, from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                    , was made in the fall of 1811. Mr. Morrison gives a thrilling
                    account of this journey in Chapter IV of his History of American
                        Steam Navigation. In a few years a number of steamboats were in
                    commission on the 
                        Mississippi
                     and the Ohio Rivers.23
                    Niles' Weekly Register, April 13, 1816, says:
                    "The passage of steamboats up and down the western waters is now so
                    common as to excite but little attention." And on April 17, 1819, it
                    says that since 1812 forty steamboats have been built on western rivers,
                    thirty-three of which were at that writing in commission, seven having been
                    wrecked, burned or abandoned. At the same time it reports twenty-eight more in
                    process of construction. The improvements in water travel were keeping pace with
                    the growth of the country.
            The steamboats burned wood almost entirely for their fuel.24
                    The crew went ashore and loaded this fuel from piles of wood bought of the
                    settlers.
            An attempt by 
                        Fulton
                     and Livingston, of 
                        New York
                    , to keep the steamboat trade a monopoly on the western rivers
                    created not a little feeling in the West. Their attempt happily failed. Prices
                    established by the Legislature of 
                        Louisiana
                     in 1812 were as follows, from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Louisville
                    : For heavy goods, 4 1/2 cents per pound; for light goods, 6 cents
                    per pound; for average goods, 5 cents per pound.
            The passenger fare from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     was 
                  
                     22 Thwaites, Early Western
                            Travels, IV, p. 264.
                  
                     23 See History of American Steam
                                Navigation, IV, by John H. Morrison. 
                                New York
                            , 1903.
                  
                     24 Nicholas Roosevelt provided some coal for his
                            initial trips with the "
                                New Orleans
                            " in 1811 by opening mines beforehand along the 
                                Ohio
                            . He is said to have taken coal at 
                                Troy
                            , Indiana.
               
                     $125.00.25
                    Many of the Indiana flatboat men, however, walked home after selling their cargo
                    at 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            The houses of the early inhabitants of Indiana were in nearly all cases of
                    wood—mostly log cabins. A few were of brick. The walls were often of
                    logs in the round; for the better houses the logs were hewed. Sawed boards soon
                    began to be used for floors and door jambs, instead of split logs that had been
                    only smoothed a little with ax or adz. For quite a while greased paper served
                    for window panes, instead of glass. No rafters were used in the ruder houses,
                    but instead, logs were laid lengthwise of the building, nearly as far apart as
                    the length of the clapboards, each log a little higher than the one next nearest
                    the side of the building. On these clapboards were laid, and the boards held in
                    place by smaller logs or poles laid on top of them and tied there.
            Doors were made heavy, with the latch string so it could be pulled in in case of
                    danger from the Indians. Sometimes a farmer had a hole through his door through
                    which he might fire if danger came to his home. His stable was often built so as
                    to be commanded from this rifle opening, that he might protect his horses from
                    Indian thieves.
            The furniture of the home was simple, often crude. The earliest settler usually
                    made it for himself—a bedstead made of poles and ropes, a bench from
                    a split log, and other articles of equally simple pattern. It was not long,
                    however, until machinery improved the nature of these articles, many of which
                    are now prized on account of their historic interest or their artistic merit.
            Food was very simple—the product of the field and forest. Cooking
                    utensils were of iron, usually. A skillet and a pot or two might be the entire
                    outfit for one home in the beginning. Salt was scarce. In 1807 the people of 
                        Vincennes
                     petitioned the Governor. W. H. Harrison, for soldiers to escort
                    them to the salt works west of the 
                        Wabash
                     so as to protect them from the Indians, who were at that time
                    unfriendly. They were heard and received orders to be at the salt works on
                    certain days, in companies of at least fifteen, one-half the force to act as a
                    scouting party and patrol the adjacent region for miles.26
            
            The pleasures of the day were simple. Various forms of athletic activity were
                    indulged in—wrestling, jumping, running and 
                  
                     25 Morrison, History of American
                                Steam Navigation, p. 218.
                  
                     26 Cockrum, Wm. M., A. Pioneer
                                History of Indiana, p, 216.
               
                     others. The infairs following weddings were
                    occasions of note, sometimes accompanied by dancing and a little drinking.
            Clothing was mostly made in the home. Here the wool or flax was prepared and spun
                    and woven, then cut into garments and sewed by hand. Hides were tanned and shoes
                    made by the father, or by a cobbler near by. Leather was used for aprons and
                    trousers, sometimes, or even for jackets. Tailors' prices were
                    $5.00 for a coat, $2.00 for pantaloons. Clothing of
                    children ten to sixteen years of age was one-half price.
            Churches were few. At first, until a community was able to erect a building,
                    services were held in the homes of the people, where the neighborhood would
                    attend. The first buildings were erected shortly after 1800. The 
                        Wabash
                     Baptist Church, of 
                  Palmyra
                            Township, Knox
                    County
               , was one among the early organizations. An act of
                    the Legislature of 1807 provided for its incorporation, with Robert Elliot, John
                    Alton and William Bruce as trustees.27 It was later sold to
                    the Presbyterians, and is now known as the Upper Indiana Church.
            Schools of the Territorial and early State period were as primitive as were other
                    institutions. The term was three or four months per year.28
                    The house was of the same general nature as the dwellings, rude and ill-lighted,
                    heated by one large fireplace. Books were few; so were teachers. They taught
                    reading, writing and arithmetic. Occasionally a class was formed in geography or
                    grammar. The constitution of 1816 provided for county seminaries and for
                    libraries. It was years before much was accomplished. The Legislature of 1821
                    directed a committee to bring in a bill at the next session for a general
                    educational system.29 The Legislature had provided, in 1807,
                    for the incorporation of 
                        Vincennes
                     University, but it was some time before it was in effective
                    operation. What schooling the children got, in most parts of Indiana, was
                    provided entirely, or nearly so, by the family.
            The period of great industrial development did not come to Indiana before 1820.
                    There were some factories springing up in the towns, it is true. The chief
                    industry of such a region, however, was to furnish lumber, tools, vehicles and
                    such for the population, and to convert the produce of field and forest into
                    marketable goods. So sawmills, blacksmith shops, tanneries, gristmills and
                    distilleries soon 
                  
                     27
                            Laws of Indiana, 1807, p. 491.
                  
                     28 Smith, Wm. H., History of the
                                State of Indiana, II, p. 514.
                  
                     29 Dillon, J. B., History of
                            Indiana, p. 568.
               
                     grew up. The census of 1810 gives the
                    following figures for Indiana Territory: Gristmills, 33; sawmills, 14;
                    tanneries, 18; distilleries, 28. And under products we find these listed: Value
                    of cloth manufactured, $159,052; value of nails manufactured,
                    $4,000; value of leather tanned, $9,300; values of
                    distillery products, $16,230; value of gunpowder manufactured,
                    $1,800; value of wine manufactured, $6,000; maple sugar
                    produced, 50,000 pounds.
            Though the life of the people of Indiana seems primitive, even crude in many
                    aspects, in the twenty years preceding 1820, yet it held the promise of a rapid
                    development. The financial difficulties of subsequent years and the spirit of
                    speculation too often prevalent, were factors tending to prevent the development
                    that might otherwise have been expected.
         
         
            SKETCHES OF EARLY INDIANA SENATORS—WALLER TAYLOR, 1816-1825
            BY NINA KATHLEEN REID A.M., of Attica
            WALLER TAYLOR was born in 
                  Lunenburg
                        County, Virginia
               . before 1786, the exact date being unknown. He
                    attended the common schools, securing what was then regarded as a liberal
                    education. Later he studied law and was admitted to the bar.1
            
            In 1804, he moved to Indiana while it was still a Territory, settling at 
                        Vincennes
                    . He soon became a steadfast friend of Governor Harrison, who
                    appointed him territorial judge in 1806, in which capacity he served several
                    years.
            November 24, 1807, Harrison appointed him chancellor of the Territory in place of
                    Judge Thomas T. Davis, who had died November 15. Davis had been one of the
                    judges of the territorial court. Benjamin Parke was appointed in the spring to
                    fill his place. Parke resigned as Attorney General and June 2, 1808, Thomas
                    Randolph was appointed to that place by the Governor. Randolph, like Taylor, was
                    a Virginian and a man of culture. They, together with Parke, formed the
                    innermost circle of Harrison's friends in the after times.2
            
            April 25, 1807, Taylor was appointed major in the militia for Indiana 
                  
                     1
                            Congressional Directory, p. 836
                  
                     2 Dunn, Indiana, 361,
               
                     Territory. February 24, 1814, he was made
                    adjutant general.3 He was in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , where he saw Thomas Randolph, his most intimate friend, and Joe
                    Davies fall. Taylor buried them side by side under a tree on which he carved
                    their initials, so that 
                        Randolph
                    's daughter, many years afterward found the spot. Before
                    the burial Taylor took a pin from his dead friend's bosom and cut off a
                    lock of his hair. These he gave to the widow when be returned home. Taylor was a
                    determined advocate of slavery. He was strong in his likes and dislikes, and did
                    not care what kind of language he used against his opponent.4
            
            In the election for delegate to Congress May 2, 1809, Thomas Randolph, John
                    Johnson and Jonathan Jennings were the candidates. Jennings was brought forward
                    by the antislavery party, while 
                        Randolph
                     and Johnson were allied with the proslavery Harrison party, or 
                        Virginia
                     aristocrats as they were called, although 
                        Randolph
                     at this time denied having ever had anything to do with that
                        party.5
            
            In this election Jennings won, receiving 428 votes, while 
                        Randolph
                     got 402 and Johnson 81. Taylor was so disgusted at the defeat of
                    his party that he wanted to fight a duel with Jennings. In a letter written June
                    3 from 
                        Jeffersonville
                     to 
                        Randolph
                    , he spoke of a meeting he had recently had with Jennings. Taylor
                    would not speak to him until Jennings made him; even then he refused to shake
                    hands. He had been saying all sorts of abusive things about Jennings since the
                    election, but the latter refused to become angry, expressing, instead, esteem
                    for his antagonist. Taylor was greatly disgusted at this. He expressed himself
                    as considering Jennings a "pitiful coward" not worthy of
                        notice.6
            
            In the election for delegate to the thirteenth Congress, Jennings and Taylor were
                    opponents. In this election, Taylor tried to avoid the issue of slavery.
                    Following is a letter to the people of Indiana, printed in the Western Sun at 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, June 17, 1812, in which he pledged himself to oppose any
                    measure which might be brought forward for the introduction of slaves:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA TERRITORY.
                        FELLOW CITIZENS:
                        Having been requested by a considerable number of respectable
                                    characters to offer myself a candidate for your favor at the
                                    ensuing election for Delegate to Congress, and their desires
                                    strongly coinciding 
                              
                                 3
                                            Executive Journal, p. 139.
                              
                                 4 Smith, History of
                                                Indiana, I, p. 217.
                              
                                 5 Dunn, Indiana,
                                            309.
                              
                                 6 Dunn, 398.
                           
                                     with my own wishes, I have
                                    thought proper in this way to announce it to you.
                        As my services in the Territory have hitherto been confined to
                                    the Judiciary and Military Departments, it may perhaps be proper
                                    that I should state to you my leading political principles, both
                                    as they concern the general problems of the 
                                        United States
                                    , and those which more immediately relate to the
                                    Territory; in the first place, then, I am, and ever have been, a
                                    republican—I had the honor to serve in the
                                    Legislature of 
                                        Virginia
                                     at a time when republicanism was not triumphant in
                                    the 
                                        United States
                                    ; my votes and my opinions in that assembly will be
                                    found to have been ever on the side of the rights and the
                                    interests of the people.
                        With respect to territorial politics, and to that question, the
                                    discussion of which has created so much sensibility in the
                                    territories, I mean the introduction of negroes, I must observe
                                    that I have never been an advocate of their admission. If I have
                                    expressed an opinion on the subject, it has been that it would
                                    be a present benefit, and a future evil. Being well assured also
                                    that an immense majority of the people are opposed to the
                                    measure, I here pledge myself to you, not only to refrain from
                                    taking any measures myself to favor their introduction, but to
                                    oppose it, should it be brought forward by others. It is easier,
                                    fellow citizens, to tell you what I will not do, than what I
                                    shall be able to accomplish, because the one is in my power, the
                                    other must depend in a great measure upon the will of others.
                                    But this far I will be bold to say, that in exertions to serve
                                    you, I will yield to no one, and that every faculty of my mind
                                    shall be employed to effect the objects which you may think
                                    proper to command my attention. Amongst those which claim my
                                    first and unremitted efforts are an amelioration of the land
                                    laws, so as to procure better terms for purchasers and
                                    particularly the taking off the back interest, against which
                                    there are so many and just complaints; to procure payment for
                                    the horses and other property which was lost upon the late
                                    campaign; and to obtain justice in every respect for the gallant
                                    troops that served upon that occasion. I am prompted to do this
                                    by every motive of justice and feeling. With respect to
                                    Territories assuming the State government, my own opinion is,
                                    that it should be entered into as soon as the people shall think
                                    the members able to support it; however, I shall expect
                                    instructions, and these instructions, whatever they may be,
                                    coming from the majority of the people or from the Legislature,
                                    I shall punctually obey.
                        With these declarations, I submit myself to your decision, and
                                    will only further add that if I shall be so fortunate as to meet
                                    with your approbation, my best services shall be devoted to your
                                    interest and welfare. I am your fellow citizen,
                        
                                    WALLER TAYLOR.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The people of Indiana had no faith in Taylor's promises, for they
                    remembered his previous attitude. He was defeated in this election, which took
                    place on the first Monday in August, 1812.
            November 8, 1816, Taylor was elected 
                        United States
                     Senator by the Indiana Legislature. At the opening of the second
                    session of the fourteenth Congress, Taylor appeared in the Senate and took  oath December 12, the day after Indiana was
                    admitted into the Union. ’ He drew lot to serve until March 3, 1819.
                    He was appointed on the committee on public lands. The next year, Taylor was
                    appointed on the committees on military affairs and on public lands, serving on
                    these two committees until 1821.8
            
            December 16, 1818, Taylor was again elected Senator, receiving twenty-one votes.
                    James Scott received fifteen and Isaac Blackford two. From 1821, he served only
                    on the committee on military affairs. During his nine years in the Senate, he
                    never made a speech that was recorded.
            Taylor was never married. He died at his old home in 
                        Virginia
                     August 26, 1826.9
                    
                  
                     7
                            Annals Fourteenth Congress, 2d Session, p. 32.
                  
                     8
                            Annals Fifteenth Congress, 1st Session, p. 26.
                  
                     9
                            Congressional Directory, p. 836.
               
            
         
         
            INDIAN CAPTIVES IN EARLY INDIANA
            LOGAN ESAREY, Ph.D., Indiana
                    University
            WHILE making a list of those who have helped to make Indiana a great State, we
                    are liable to pass over too lightly those early pioneers who helped to drive the
                    Indians from the border. We have very little in the way of authentic record of
                    those citizen soldiers who served in the campaigns under Harmar, St. Clair, 
                        Wayne
                    , Wilkinson, Scott, Clark and others. Many of them served without
                    pay, having never been regularly enlisted. Their horses were stolen, their
                    cabins burned, and in many cases their families killed or earried into
                    captivity. Many of these soldiers later tried to get remuneration from the
                    government but without much success. While William Hendricks was in Congress he
                    succeeded in having many of the claims of those who served in the campaigns of
                    the War of 1812 paid, but those who took part in the expeditions named, from
                    1778 to 1796, were never adequately compensated. The politics of the party of
                    Jackson were opposed to creating a class of pensioners. In investigating this
                    field the editor came upon a series of sketches written by Judge William Polke
                    and printed in the 
                  
                            Fort Wayne
                         Times in 1842. They were also copied in the 
                  
                            Logansport
                         Telegraph. They are deemed of sufficient historical value
                    and importance to warrant their being made more available. Judge Polke was a
                    member  of the Constitutional Convention, the
                    superintendent of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road during its construction, and for many years preceding his
                    death at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , April 26, 1843, he had been Indian agent at that place. Few
                    pioneers had a more varied experience than he. His years of service among the
                    Indians give his words great weight when he speaks of the baneful influence of
                    the British on the American Indians before the War of 1812. The following
                    constitute for historical purposes the more important portions of these letters:
            CAPTAIN CHARTS POLKE
            "Mr. Charles Polke, a young man, was among the early adventurers to western 
                        Virginia
                    , on the upper branches of the Ohio River;
                    hence we find him in his country's service in 1774, in an expedition
                    against the Indian village on the Scioto, and again with Lord Dun-more in his
                    celebrated campaign in the latter part of the same year.
            "During the succeeding winter he married and settled as a farmer near
                    what was then called the Mingo bottom, on the Ohio River,
                    some distance above Wheeling, where he continued to reside with his family
                    during the winter, and improve his farm; in the spring removing them to the
                    neighboring fort, erected by the settlers for the protection of their families,
                    while they cultivated their farms, part performing the labor while another part
                    acted as spies and guards. Having had an improvement made in 
                        Kentucky
                    , by which he obtained a preemption claim, in what is now 
                        Nelson County
                    , about seven miles east of 
                        Bardstown
                    , he sold his farm for continental bills (which depreciated in his
                    hands), and in the spring of 1780 descended the Ohio River
                    with his family, with the intention to settle on and improve his land.
            "On landing at 
                        Louisville
                    , finding his land so remote, and the removal to it dangerous on
                    account of Indian hostilities, at the invitation of his old friend and comrade,
                    in the days of their boyhood, Colonel William Linn, one of the brave among the
                    western sufferers, he settled at Linn's Station, about twelve miles
                    from 
                        Louisville
                    .
            "During the summer Mr. Polke was frequently engaged, as was usual, in
                    guarding against surprise, and the pursuit of straggling parties of Indians who
                    infested the settlements, and by that means obtained the confidence of his
                    associates, so that they chose him captain in the campaign which General G. R.
                    Clark waged against the Shawnee towns on the Miami that year, and acted a
                    conspicuous  part in the battle of the
                    Pickaway, where the Indians were signally defeated.
            "During the succeeding winter he moved to his own land. On his arrival
                    he found it occupied by a small band of immigrants from 
                        Virginia
                     who had previously settled there, erected a small fort for the
                    security of their families, and cleared some lands, and had raised a fine crop
                    of Indian corn the preceding year, not knowing that it was a preemption claim.
                    Thus situated, he erected a cabin, and commenced to improve sufficiently near,
                    in case of an alarm, to take protection in the fort; hunting the buffalo for the
                    subsistence of his family, and improving his farm to enable him to raise
                    sufficient for their support the approaching season.
            "The early part of the year 1781 passed off without any serious alarm,
                    until near midsummer, when a Mr. Ash, who with a large family of sons had
                    settled a few miles off alone on the frontier, being on a visit with his wife
                    and infant son at Captain Polke's, on their return early in the
                    afternoon, after proceding about two miles, were met by one of their sons, an
                    active lad of about twelve years of age, who informed his parents that while out
                    at work in their cornfield the Indians had fired upon them, and had either
                    killed or taken all the rest of the family; he being a little distance from them
                    had escaped. The afflicted parents forthwith returned. Captain Polke immediately
                    with his family took shelter in the fort, dispatched a runner to the next fort,
                    about four miles, to give the alarm, and the same evening with a small party
                    started in pursuit, and shortly after dark they arrived at the scene of
                    desolation. They found the eldest son, a young man, and the youngest and only
                    daughter slain. To their surprise the house had not been burnt, and on
                    cautiously approaching it they found the door fastened on the inside. Being
                    apprehensive of an ambuscade, they were about to examine when the voice of a
                    child inquired if it was his father and mother that had come home. On their
                    reply the child opened the door and informed them he was asleep under the bed,
                    wrapped in a buffalo hide to keep off the flies, and that seven or eight Indians
                    came into the house and took off all the things they could carry with them; that
                    when he was first awakened by their noise he was about to tell them his mother
                    would be angry when she came home, but that they looked so ugly he was afraid,
                    and laid still until after they were gone; he then got up and fastened the door
                    to keep them out until his father and mother should come home. The boy was about
                    five years old.
            "Having thus learned the probable number of the enemy, the next  morning on pursuing the trail they found
                    they had taken the remainder of the family, five sons, prisoners. With the force
                    they had it was not thought prudent to attempt a pursuit, as it might lead to
                    the massacre of their prisoners. They buried the dead and returned to the fort
                    the same day.
            "The remainder of the season passed without any further mischief than
                    straggling parties hovering round the settlements and stealing their horses,
                    which from necessity were permitted to roam through the forests.
            "Early in the morning in the beginning of the spring of 1782, four
                    persons left the fort with horses loaded with salt for Harrodsburgh, the next
                    station, about thirty miles distant. Having traveled about five miles, they were
                    attacked by about thirty Indians. Fortunately, but one man was wounded and he
                    not dangerously. But instantly throwing off their loads and mounting their
                    horses, after a wild pursuit, they succeeded in regaining the fort. Expecting an
                    immediate attack, the day and night succeeding was passed in repairing the fort
                    and making such preparation for defense as was in their power. Fortunately, no
                    serious attack was made. After remaining two or three days in the vicinity,
                    stealing horses and killing some cattle, the Indians dispersed in small bands
                    for the purpose of stealing more horses from the neighboring forts. Captain
                    Polke, with a small party, pursued one of these straggling bands, overtook them,
                    killed their leader and recovered part of the stolen horses without loss.
            "From this time the remainder of the summer passed off without any
                    serious alarm until August, but the attack upon Bryant's Station on the
                    15th of that month and the disastrous battle of the Blue Licks on the 19th,
                    spread general consternation throughout the country, as no one could conjecture
                    where the next blow would be struck. About the time of the intelligence of these
                    disasters in what were then termed the lower settlements, in the vicinity of 
                        Louisville
                    , a young man hunting buffalo alone, about twenty-five miles from
                    the nearest settlement, discovered on their march in the direction of the forts
                    in the vicinity of 
                        Louisville
                     (as he supposed) about one hundred warriors. Not being discovered
                    by the Indians, and being on horseback, he hastened to give the alarm, and in a
                    few hours apprised his friends of their danger. It may be proper here to state
                    that the young man above named still lives (1843) in 
                  Shelby County, Kentucky
               , now upwards of eighty years of age, the
                    highly respected Major Bland W Ballard, afterward so well known in the Indian
                         wars, and who performed a conspicuous
                    part in the late war at the celebrated but unfortunate battle of the River
                    Raisin.
            "Colonel John Floyd, the officer in command, immediately started an
                    express to give the alarm to the forts in the vicinity of Bards-town, and
                    requesting assistance to meet the enemy, appointing the place of rendezvous
                    nearly midway between the settlements, which were nearly thirty miles apart, on
                    the evening of the next day, the 39th of August, 1782.
            "Colonel Isaac Cox, the senior officer in these forts, early on the
                    morning of that day, sent an express to Captain Polke, at the weakest and most
                    frontier station in that direction, and the same afternoon, with what men could
                    be spared from the defense of the fort, he departed for the appointed
                    rendezvous, where he arrived the same evening, about fifteen miles from the
                    fort. The arrangements of Colonel Floyd were most judicious and prudent, as his
                    position was such as to afford assistance to whichever of the settlements might
                    be attacked.
            "Early on the morning of the 30th of August, four of Captain
                    Polke's men were directed to return to the fort, for the double purpose
                    of acting as spies and of strengthening the fort, should it be attacked. Two
                    horsemen were selected to take a circuit entirely around the fort, so that they
                    might discover the trail of the invaders should they have taken that course; the
                    other two, being footmen, were directed to take a more direct route.
                    Unfortunately, the horsemen disobeyed their instructions and after traveling a
                    few miles made directly for the fort, where they arrived early in the afternoon,
                    thereby quieting in part the alarm of the inhabitants. It was afterward
                    ascertained that, had they pursued their route as they were directed, they would
                    have discovered the trail of the Indians in time to have advised Captain Floyd,
                    so that he might have reached the fort previous to its attack and capture.
            "On a clear and bright morning, the moon shining in her meridian
                    splendor, the 31st of August, 1782, about one hour before the break of day, the
                    first alarm to the unfortunate inmates was the war whoop of the Indians as they
                    assailed the fort from different quarters, and obtained immediate possession by
                    climbing the walls and unroofing the cabins. Descending from the outside, one
                    man defended his house until his wife and one child were killed, when, seizing
                    his other child, a boy about four years old, he made his escape. It was believed
                    that he killed one or two of the Indians; one man, the woman and child were the
                    only persons slain in the capture. Two white  men, four women, and the lad, Ash, who had escaped the previous year when his
                    father's family were taken, made their way in safety to the next
                    station. I will here state that this promising boy grew up, highly esteemed, and
                    at the early age of twenty-two, fell, bravely fighting for his country, at St.
                    Clair's defeat.
            "The remaining inmates, about thirty in number, were taken prisoners,
                    and the fort burned. It was known for many years afterward as the
                    ‘burnt station. ’ On the evening of the day of the
                    calamity, Colonel Floyd was advised of the melancholy occurrence; à
                    council was immediately assembled to consult what course would be proper to
                    pursue, and the general opinion was in favor of an immediate pursuit. To this
                    Captain Polke strongly objected, urging that a pursuit would tend to the
                    massacre of all the prisoners, as the Indians would keep scouts in their rear on
                    their retreat, so that a surprise could not be calculated upon; and that as it
                    was, it might be possible for him sometime to recover his family. Known as he
                    was for his determined bravery, perseverance and prudence, and from his amiable
                    and conciliatory course being universally beloved, a pursuit was not attempted.
            "The Indians, after taking whatever of the property of the inhabitants
                    they could travel with, set the houses on fire and consumed the remainder, and
                    about daylight retired to their camp. Soon after sunrise they commenced a
                    retreat with their prisoners, in all about thirty, including Mrs. Polke and her
                    four children, the eldest a son (the writer of this) seven years of age, the
                    others daughters, the youngest two years old, and herself in that situation that
                    but faint hopes could be entertained that she could bear the fatigues of a
                    forced march through the wilderness, which the reader will understand when
                    informed that her second son was born at 
                        Detroit
                     on the 27th of the ensuing October. On the first day of their
                    captivity circumstances occurred which, though of minor importance, it is
                    believed from what was afterward learned from the Indians, influenced their
                    treatment of Mrs. Polke and her children, and probably was the means of
                    preserving her life, which will be detailed in a manner that may appear tedious
                    and unnecessary. The apology is that it is given as an illustration of the
                    Indian character, to show that even among the untutored savages there are traits
                    of benevolence and humanity that are worthy to be preserved.
            "At the first assault on the fort, Mrs. Polke having her two youngest
                    children in the same bed with her, immediately arose and, taking a child under
                    each arm, attempted to wake up her two eldest  children; but before she succeeded the Indians broke into the house, seized
                    her and her two children, hurried her out, and shortly after to their camp,
                    within about half a mile from the fort.
            "After daylight in looking over the encampment she discovered all the
                    prisoners taken except her own two children, from which she inferred they had
                    not been discovered in the darkness within the house, and had been left to be
                    consumed, as she saw them set the house on fire before they left the fort, which
                    added much to her affliction that she had not succeeded in awakening them out of
                    their sleep.
            "It will here be proper to mention that the Indian chief had arrived in
                    the vicinity of the fort previous to the departure of Captain Polke and his men,
                    and from their hiding places had witnessed his leaving for the purpose of
                    joining Colonel Floyd. One of their first inquiries in the morning after
                    arriving at their encampment was for the chief's squaw and papooses.
                    When pointed out to them they appeared much pleased that they had taken them
                    prisoners, and said the chief would be much disappointed on his return to find
                    his family all taken away from him.
            "I have heard Mrs. Polke say she could observe a marked difference in
                    the treatment of her children and that of the others taken. On the second
                    morning they painted her son in Indian style, decorated him with feathers and
                    some Indian trinkets, and called him the young Chief of the Long Knife, the name
                    given the Kentuckians by the Indians of that day. Shortly after sunrise they
                    commenced their march, Mrs. Polke carrying her youngest child, and Mrs. Ash
                    (whose family had been taken the preceding year) carrying hers only a few months
                    old. After traveling a short distance, the Indians took their children from them
                    (for the purpose, as they supposed, of murdering them) and directed them to
                    march, Mrs. Ash observing that if they killed her child she would go no farther
                    with them. They rapidly pursued their journey for about twelve miles, when they
                    halted. In a short time the Indian who had taken Mrs. Polke's child
                    came up with it and handed it to its mother, at the same time her two eldest
                    came up and joined her for the first time since their captivity, which much
                    relieved her anxiety on their account. Mrs. Ash repeated that as they had
                    murdered her child she would go no farther.
            "Having crossed no stream of water thus far, Mrs. Polke, from her
                    anxiety, fatigue and thirst, was so exhausted she could scarcely breathe. The
                    Indians had brought with them many watermelons  from the fort, and, while refreshing themselves
                    with them, she held out her hand as a request for a part, to relieve her thirst,
                    which was answered by a general laugh and shout of approbation. Some ten or
                    twelve of them handed her slices, which she divided among the prisoners around
                    her, offering Mrs. Ash a part, saying it would relieve her thirst, which she
                    refused by a shake of the head without speaking. The Indians’
                    countenances immediately changed to anger. They began a conversation among
                    themselves, when one came forward, stripped her of part of her upper garments,
                    and in a few minutes started the prisoners, making signs to Mrs. Ash to take her
                    child, a boy of two years old, and march. After they had proceeded a short
                    distance they distinctly heard the tomahawk strike her head; she uttered a
                    scream simultaneous with their war whoop and all was silent. They continued
                    their march until near sunset, traveling this day about thirty miles before they
                    encamped for the night. The Indian who claimed Mrs. Polke and her youngest child
                    as his prisoners, being of a surly temper, proposed killing her that night,
                    saying she could not travel as far next day as they had wished to go. To this
                    proposal his brother, of a more humane disposition, objected and proposed to
                    defer the council till next evening, and was joined by two or three others, who
                    assigned as a reason why she should be saved the circumstance of the watermelons
                    as related above.
            "The next morning the Indian who had first proposed saving her life, in
                    the council in the preceding evening, by signs informed her that in two days
                    they would cross the big water, as they called the Ohio
                    River, where they had horses, and she then should ride. Thus
                    encouraged and stimulated to go as far as she could by a mother's
                    desire to know what would be the fate of her children, the second day passed off
                    as the first, by a rapid march, and contrary to her expectation, she made the
                    journey as the day before. The same Indians who had interceded for her in
                    council the previous evening, again prevailed in suspending the decision until
                    the next evening.
            "The third day passed off in the same manner until late in the
                    afternoon, when within a few hundred yards of the Ohio
                    River her foot slipped in a small hole in the ground, and, being
                    unable to extricate herself, she quietly sat down to await her fate, which she
                    believed would be immediate death. Her ill-disposed master, with a slight kick
                    and a surly voice ordered her to march. She shook her head, signifying she could
                    not. He immediately drew his tomahawk from its scabbard and raised it over his
                    head for the purpose of dispatching his victim at a single blow, but his more
                    humane  brother, who was immediately behind
                    him, caught it in his hand as he drew it back, and commenced a conversation in
                    an earnest tone of remonstrance, which Mrs. Polke thought continued two or three
                    minutes, before he let go his hold on the tomahawk, which the other then
                    returned to his scabbard and passed on. Her preserver remained and assisted her
                    to rise and proceed to their bark canoes, in which they had crossed the river in
                    their advances and concealed a short distance up the Kentucky
                    River, above its junction with the 
                        Ohio
                    . He assisted her on board and, observing her feet and legs much
                    swelled, took his knife and ripped open her moccasins which they had given her
                    to put on at the commencement of the journey, and which on account of the
                    swelling could not be got off in any other way. On taking them off her toe nails
                    came off with a large portion of the skin on the bottom of her feet, which
                    appeared to excite the sympathy of the Indian in the canoe. He then directed her
                    to bathe her feet, by pouring water on them while crossing. Having crossed over,
                    he assisted her up the bank, and brought her child and blanket to her, then went
                    and brought some oil or rather marrow procured from the bones of the buffaloes
                    which a few Indians who had been left to hunt and take care of the canoes had
                    procured, and directed her to rub her feet well with the marrow. He then handed
                    her a large, soft pair of moccasins to put on, after which he said she could
                    sleep and would be better in the morning. From her pain and sufferings she had
                    but little hopes of living to see the morning light, but to satisfy the kind
                    Indian who appeared to take such interest in preserving her life, she did as he
                    directed. Contrary to her expectations, the remedies applied so far relieved her
                    that, for the first night during her captivity, she slept soundly and next
                    morning was so far relieved, I have many years afterward often heard her
                    declare, that the whole scene of that afternoon and night still appeared to her
                    a most extraordinary and miraculous interposition of divine goodness for her
                    preservation.
            "On the same evening the Indians held another council to decide on her
                    fate, believing she could not live to travel to their villages. At this council
                    an elderly Indian who had not before interfered was the first to object, saying
                    she had lived and traveled so far that he believed the great spirit would not
                    permit them to kill her, and if they attempted it he would be angry with them,
                    and they could not prosper. Being joined by others, his advice prevailed, and
                    from that time they gave over all thoughts of killing her under any
                    circumstances. This day being the fourth of their captivity, they traveled  but a few miles before they arrived at a
                    camp where a few old men had remained to hunt during their absence on their war
                    excursion, Here they remained the balance of this day. Here were the horses
                    which had been named to Mrs. Polke as an encouragement to her to pursue her
                    journey. From this point the next morning, being the 4th of September, the
                    Indians separated into small bands for the convenience of hunting for their
                    support on their journey. Mrs. Polke and her two youngest children being
                    attached to one band, and her two eldest belonging to another, they were
                    separated, much to the grief of their afflicted mother.
            "The party with Mrs. Polke proceeded to their villages on the
                        Auglaise river, where they arrived on the 10th of
                    September. After remaining four days, they started for 
                        Detroit
                     with their prisoners, retaining her youngest daughter, as they
                    informed her, to raise as one of their own squaws, which much increased her
                    grief. At the rapids of the Miami or Roche de Bœuf, as it was called,
                    they rested one day. Here was a trader from 
                        Detroit
                     who had been acquainted with Captain Polke previous to the
                    commencement of the Revolutionary War, to whom the Indians related the result of
                    their councils in determining on Mrs. Polke's case, and he informed her
                    thereof and pointed out to her the Indian who so eloquently plead in her behalf
                    at the last council. While waiting here the Indians came up with Mrs.
                    Polke's son, having disposed of her daughter to the Shawnees at one of
                    their villages in the vicinity of Piqua, on the Great Miami, she having been
                    taken sick, and, as they said, they were afraid she would die on the journey and
                    they would get nothing for her. From here they proceeded to 
                        Detroit
                    , where they arrived about the 25th of September, and gave up such
                    prisoners as they brought with them to Colonel DePuyster, the commander of the
                    British forces at that point, who treated them with the kindest attention and
                    humanity. In his speech to the Indians he strongly insisted on their bringing in
                    such prisoners as they had retained, naming in particular Mrs. Polke's
                    two children, which they had separated from their mother, and strongly
                    remonstrated against their practice of murdering women and children. Such was
                    Colonel DePuyster's general character for benevolence and humanity that
                    the prisoners compared him to a kind and indulgent parent in his treatment of
                    his children.
            "A comfortable house was provided for Mrs. Polke and her two children,
                    in common with a small and excellent family of prisoners (who had been taken by
                    Colonel Bird in his celebrated expedition against Riddle's and
                    Martin's station in 
                        Kentucky
                     in the year 1780),  where she
                    lived as comfortable as the nature of the case would permit. But the situation
                    of her two children left with the Indians, her anxiety on their account, and her
                    sufferings and exposure on the journey had much impaired her health, so that
                    fears were enter rained for her life. A short time after her arrival, on the
                    27th of October, as before stated, her second son was born, after which her
                    retention to her infant so engrossed her mind, together with the assurance of
                    Colonel DePuyster, the commander, and Colonel McKee, the superintendent of the
                    Indian department, that they would procure the release of her children from the
                    Indians, she became more reconciled to her situation and her health improved. By
                    industry and economy with the use of her needle she was supplied with provisions
                    by the British government.
            "She lived much more comfortable during the winter than could have been
                    anticipated. Early in the spring messengers were dispatched to the Indian
                    country by Colonels DePuyster and McKee, in search of her children and such
                    others of the prisoners as the Indians had retained, and on the first of July
                    she had the pleasure of receiving her children under her own maternal care,
                    where we will leave them in the full enjoyment of their happiness for the
                    present and return to Captain Polke.
            "As stated above, no pursuit of the Indians having been attempted,
                    fearing it would lead to a massacre of the prisoners, Captain Polke with a few
                    friends, about ten days afterward, followed on the trail with a view of
                    ascertaining, if practicable, the fate of the prisoners. He found the remains of
                    three children and Mrs. Ash, who were the only prisoners murdered by the Indians
                    after they left the fort. From the decayed teeth he was enabled satisfactorily
                    to ascertain it was not Mrs. Polke who had been murdered.
            "General Clark having determined on a campaign against the Shawnee
                    villages on the Great Miami, Captain Polke was among the first to approve the
                    measure and commanded a company in that expedition. The Indians having
                    discovered the advance of General Clark's army a few miles from their
                    villages, they fled without making any resistance, so that but few were either
                    killed or taken prisoners. Detachments were sent in pursuit to destroy the
                    different villages and their corn and vegetables, being the only method whereby
                    they could be made to feel the distresses of war. Captain Polke took an active
                    part in these excursions, in hopes of recovering some of his family, but was
                    disappointed. A few prisoners were taken and their villages destroyed. In one of
                    these excursions Colonel McKee  the
                    superintendent of the Indian department, narrowly escaped being captured, as he
                    afterward informed Captain Polke when at 
                        Detroit
                     after his family.
            "On the return of General Clark to his headquarters at
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , he was advised
                    there were strong hopes during the winter of peace being confirmed. He
                    immediately dispatched a messenger with a flag, accompanied by one of his Indian
                    prisoners, with a letter to Colonel McKee, proposing an exchange of prisoners,
                    first of all to release Captain Polke's family, afterward such other
                    prisoners as Colonel McKee might select. Captain Polke's family not
                    being under Indian control, he could not comply with General Clark's
                    request. He detained the messenger until he could send the letter by express to
                    Colonel DePuyster, the commander of 
                        Detroit
                    , who, on the receipt of the letter, immediately sent for Mrs. Polke
                    and communicated the intelligence received and the contents of General
                    Clark's letter. At the same time he informed her he could not accede to
                    the proposal for her and her family to return through the Indian country, as she
                    was now safe and he could not trust the Indians; that should any accident happen
                    he would be blamed and should himself feel as if he had been accessory to the
                    massacre of her and her children; that he fully believed peace would be restored
                    during the ensuing summer, and that Captain Polke could then safely come for his
                    family; that he would then with pleasure render him the necessary assistance,
                    and advised her to write to her husband and the letter should be sent with his
                    own to General Clark. Mrs. Polke then named a general order that had recently
                    been issued, directing all the prisoners of that fort to prepare to proceed by
                    the first conveyance to Niagara, on their return to their own country, stating
                    that those who remained behind would not be supplied with provisions from the
                    King's stores, and informed him she could not possibly support herself
                    and children by her own labor. He then assured her she need have no fears on
                    that account, as the general order was intended for the idle and dissolute among
                    the prisoners, of which he was sorry to say there were too many, and not to
                    drive off helpless women and children. He again assured her he would send to the
                    Indian country and have her children brought in and given up to her, all of
                    which promises he punctually performed. Mrs. Polke, as advised, wrote to her
                    husband, which conveyed to him the first certain intelligence of the situation
                    of his family.
            "Early in the spring Colonel DePuyster was advised of peace and was
                    instructed to restrain Indian hostilities on the frontier settlements,  and so far succeeded that they were
                    peaceable during the year. In the summer following the capture of his family,
                    Captain Polke ascended the Ohio River to obtain some
                    assistance from his friends, who had promised him aid in recovering his family.
                    As the safer route to 
                        Detroit
                     was through the Indian country, he procured a passport, which was
                    indispensibly necessary, from General Irwin, who then commanded at 
                        Pittsburg
                    . In company with Mr. Jonathan lane, of Wheeling, 
                        Virginia
                    , as his guide, they proceeded through the wilderness to Upper
                    Sandusky, to the residence of the celebrated Simon Girty, so well known at this
                    day as the most active partisan leader of the Indians in their wars on the
                    frontier settlements. They were received with friendship by Mr. Girty and
                    treated with Indian hospitality by him for two days while they remained at
                    Sandusky.
            "Mr. Zane had been the guide the preceding year to the unfortunate
                    expedition of Colonel Crawford, whose melancholy fate at the time excited so
                    much sympathy throughout the country. After conversing freely with Mr. Zane on
                    the subject, Mr. Girty advised him as it was generally known among the Indians
                    that he had been the guide to Colonel Crawford) not to proceed any farther, but
                    to return immediately, as in his opinion it would not be safe for him to travel
                    through the Indian country. He promised to send a trusty Indian as a guide with
                    Captain Polke to 
                        Detroit
                    , and would be responsible for his safety. On the third morning
                    after their arrival at Sanfusky, they separated, Mr. Zane to return home and
                    Captain Polke, in company with his Indian guide, pursued his journey to 
                        Detroit
                    . He arrived safely on the 10th day of October, and there he had the
                    satisfaction of meeting all of his family in good health, thirteen months and a
                    few days from the date of their captivity. The humane and benevolent Colonel
                    DePuyster reluctantly consented to grant Captain Polke a passport to return
                    through the Indian country, fearing he might be interrupted by hunting parties
                    of Indians he might encounter on his journey. At the earnest request of Captain
                    Polke, he consented to send a confidential officer as far as Sandusky with a
                    speech to the Wyandotte chiefs, to warn their young men not to molest them while
                    passing through their country. Many other prisoners wished to accompany him on
                    his return but the commander would not permit any to go except the family of Mr.
                    White, who had resided in the same house with Mrs. Polke, three small daughters
                    of a widow who had escaped while her three daughters were taken, and the son of
                    the only man killed at the taking of the fort, whose wife escaped in company
                    with the widow above named, leaving her 
                    three children, who were taken. (The two youngest were murdered after they left
                    the fort.) These children Colonel DePuyster put under Captain Polke's
                    care to convey to their parents, furnishing them with good clothing, and making
                    the present of a horse and saddle to the eldest daughter, about eleven years of
                    age, who had lived in his family and been treated as if one of his own children.
                    On the 15th of October Captain Polke commenced his return journey. At Sandusky
                    he remained two days, waiting for Thomas Girty, a brother of Simon, who was on a
                    visit to his brother, as it was believed his company would add to the safety of
                    the party. As a further precautionary measure, he employed an aged 
                        Delaware
                     Indian as a guide, and a younger relation of the old man as a
                    hunter.
            "From Sandusky Simon Girty accompanied them a few miles, passing over
                    the late battlefield of the lamented Colonel Crawford. Here he pointed out the
                    different movements of the enemy, saying that had Colonel Crawford continued the
                    pursuit some ten minutes longer at the commencement of the battle, he would have
                    defeated them, as at the time he stopped the advance of his troops, which he did
                    fearing an ambuscade, the Indians were about commencing a general retreat. The
                    writer has a perfect recollection of this conversation, though only eight years
                    of age at the time.
            "No particular accident happened in the journey through the wilderness,
                    but the progress was slow and fatiguing, as the children that were of sufficient
                    ability had to walk. Early in November they arrived among Captain
                    Polke's friends, who resided in what is now 
                  Brooke County, Virginia
               , near the Ohio
                    River, and prepared for descending the same. They safely landed at
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , on the evening of
                    the 24th day of December, 1783. From thence Captain Polke moved to his late
                    cabin, which, being some distance from the fort, had escaped conflagration.
                    Having by the captivity of his family, expenses in recovering them and the
                    destruction of his property, been reduced to poverty, he had to sell the largest
                    portion of his land for what it would bring to enable him to commence again as a
                    farmer.
            "Having received no compensation for his services as captain of the two
                    expeditions under General Clark, and at this time in the West with little
                    expectation of ever receiving it, Captain Polke assigned his claims on the
                    government for twenty dollars ’ worth of goods at an extravagant
                    price, being all he ever received in a pecuniary point of view for all his
                    sufferings and services for his country. Yet none rejoiced more in her
                    independence or complained less  of the
                    hardships endured. By industry and frugality he lived to raise a large family of
                    children, who with their descendants chiefly reside in the State of Indiana.
            "Mrs. Polke died at the birth of her twelfth child in 
                  Shelby County, Kentucky
               , on the 7th of June, 1797. Captain Polke
                    kept his family together until several of his eldest children married and
                    removed to Indiana, where he followed them, living among his children as a
                    patriarch of old, beloved and respected by all his acquaintances, on account of
                    his patience and cheerfulness under all circumstances. He died as he had lived,
                    with Christian resignation and composure, on the 11th of September, 1823, in the
                    seventy-ninth year of his age.
            "I have often regretted that more has not been preserved of the early
                    history of the West, and at the request of some friends have been induced to
                    furnish a plain and unvarnished tale of the captivity of my father's
                    family, as a tribute of respect to my reverend parents, and as a drop in the
                    bucket added to the general history of the privations and sufferings of the
                    western pioneers.
            THE CAPTIVITY OF STEPHEN ASHBY AND HIS FAMILY
            "Stephen Ashby, a farmer in moderate circumstances, was among the early
                    adventurers to the western part of 
                        Virginia
                    . Having by industry and economy saved a sum sufficient to purchase
                    a valuable bract of land in what is now 
                  Nelson
                            County, Kentucky
               , he determined to settle upon it, in the early
                    part of the year 1789. In descending the Ohio River with
                    his family, a wife and eight children, the eldest a promising youth of nineteen
                    years of age and the youngest about three months old, they were captured by a
                    band of Pottawattomies, who had infested the river and captured several
                    defending boats. His eldest son refused to surrender after the Indians had
                    possession of the boat, though entreated to do so by his mother, but fought
                    desperately until he fell covered with wounds. One of the Indians then
                    deliberately opened him, took out his heart, broiled it on the coals of the
                    fire, and ate it in the presence of his afflicted parents (as he afterward, by
                    way of apology, informed Mrs. Ashby, on account of his bravery, for the purpose
                    of making himself equally brave).
            "On the capture of Mr. Ashby and his family the Indians made
                    arrangements to return to their villages, on the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and Elkhart Rivers, in the northern part of
                    this State. Being so remote from any white settlements, they did not closely
                    confine their prisoners, supposing it impracticable for them, in their destitute
                         situation, to cross the Ohio
                        River and make their way through the wilderness to their friends.
            "On the second day after their captivity, they sent Mr. Ashby and his
                    oldest remaining son (a lad of seventeen years of age) to procure timber for
                    packsaddles, preparatory to their return to their villages. While thus engaged,
                    Mrs. Ashby by what she observed among the Indians, was led to believe that they
                    were making arrangements to burn Mr. Ashby before they commenced their journey.
                    This she secretly communicated to her husband and advised him to attempt an
                    escape, to which he objected, preferring as he said, that they should suffer and
                    die together. She replied that she could not endure to see him burned to death,
                    which she was sure they intended to do, and that he might possibly succeed in
                    reaching the settlements and be thereby enabled to relieve such of the family as
                    should survive their sufferings.
            "Overcome by the arguments and entreaties of his heroic wife, he
                    reluctantly consented to leave his family in their deplorable situation, and
                    make the almost hopeless attempt to escape. Fortunately, or to use Mr.
                    Ashby's own words, providentially, late in the afternoon they directed
                    him to procure a few more crotches for pack-saddles, which are obtained by
                    taking suitable forks from small saplings, and necessarily requiring some time
                    to find such as are suitable for the purpose. The eldest son having been
                    apprised by his mother of his father's intentions, wished to accompany
                    him, to which the father objected, believing the boy could not possibly succeed
                    in swimming the Ohio River, and that it would be only
                    certain death for him to make the attempt. Here again the intercession of the
                    wife and mother prevailed, and silenced the father's objections by a
                    single word, or whisper, as it had to be to avoid detection.
            "Then leaving his distressed family, he passed from the camp, appearing
                    to search for the timber they were sent in quest of. As soon as they were out of
                    sight of their enemies, the father and son ran with all speed a short distance
                    down the river, procured from the bank each a couple of dry logs such as they
                    could handle, lashed them together with bark, launched themselves upon the
                    river, and by great exertions safely arrived on the opposite shore just as their
                    pursuers arrived at the shore they had left. They pursued their journey through
                    the night, until from fatigue and hunger and having their clothes nearly torn
                    from their bodies by the bushes and briers, they became so weak and their feet
                    so bruised they were unable  to travel
                    further, and again had recourse to the means by which they had eluded their
                    pursuers at the outset.
            "Thus after floating down the river for two days, they were safely
                    landed at 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , on the fourth day
                    after their escape from their enemies, in the most deplorable condition that can
                    be imagined, where they received that attention which such sufferers are
                    entitled to by their friends.
            "Mrs. Ashby with her remaining children (the four oldest sons, and the
                    two youngest daughters) were by their enemies taken on to their villages. She
                    having to walk and carry her infant child in her arms, was unable through
                    fatigue and sufferings to give it sufficient nourishment to sustain life, and it
                    expired on the journey. The afflicted mother was only allowed time to scratch
                    away the loose earth, and lower it with her hands and place a few limbs and
                    bushes over its lonely grave, which she declared was the most melancholy scene
                    to her during her whole captivity. Mrs. Ashby and the youngest two of her
                    surviving children were taken to the villages on the St. Joseph
                    River, in the vicinity of the 
                        Elkhart
                    ; the eldest three to the Illinois River, where
                    they endured their cruel eaptivity until relieved after the Treaty of 
                        Greenville
                    , in 1795, exeept the eldest son who escaped some two or three years
                    before.
            "Mr. Ashby, having escaped from captivity as above related, made
                    unremitting exertions in behalf of his captive and suffering family. In order to
                    procure the means, if possible, to liberate them, he sold his fine tract of
                    land. Being a man of remarkable firmness, perseverance and bravery, he embraced
                    every opportunity to penetrate the Indian country. Hence we find him with
                    Colonel Hamtramck, in his expedition up the 
                        Wabash
                     in 1790, and with the mounted expedition to the 
                        Wabash
                     in 1791 under General Scott. His son escaped with him in General
                    St. Clair's defeat the same year, in which he received a dangerous
                    wound. He performed several journeys through the wilderness to 
                        Vincennes
                    , then the most frontier post, at the risk of his life, and to the
                    headquarters of General Wayne's army, in search of information of his
                    family. He became well known to General Wayne, and his officers, and acquired
                    their good will by his unremitting exertions to obtain his family.
            "In one of his visits to headquarters, a Pottawattomie Indian having
                    been recently captured by Captain William Wells, and his party of spies, he
                    obtained permission to visit him in his confinement with an interpreter to make
                    inquiries in respect to his family. The Indian at sight of him became sullen,
                    covered himself with his blanket  and
                    refused to speak, which surprised the officer and interpreter, as on all other
                    occasions he conversed freely. At the treaty of 
                        Greenville
                    , Mr. Ashby being present, on the Indian being released, he at once
                    recognized in him the individual who had committed the barbarous act on the
                    lifeless body of his son at the time of the capture of his family. During his
                    stay at the treaty, the Indian always avoided coming in contact with him. After
                    the treaty was concluded, he came on to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to meet his long suffering family. On the arrival of part of his
                    children late in the autumn, he learned that his long absent wife would be
                    brought in in a few days, and that she was then at the 
                        Elkhart
                     village. He proceeded alone from 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , although at the time it was considered a perilous and dangerous
                    undertaking, and on the second day met her on foot, with a heavy load of their
                    baggage. He without hesitation drew his knife and disencumbered her of the load
                    by cutting the straps which confined it. After some altercation on the part of
                    the Indians, who made some threats, at the earnest request of Mrs. Ashby, he
                    took up the load and conveyed it to the fort himself. Though he has since
                    assured the writer that it was only at the solicitations of his beloved wife
                    that he was prevailed upon to comply with their demands.
            "Having thus regained his family, after nearly seven years of suffering,
                    he settled in 
                  Shelby County, Kentucky
               , where by his
                    prudence, economy and industry, he long lived comfortably, beloved and respected
                    by his neighbors. From thence he removed to the southern part of Indiana, where
                    both himself and his venerable partner died a few years past, within a short
                    time of each other, at an advanced age. He had been for the last twenty years of
                    his life a respectable preacher of the gospel, of the Baptist denomination. Such
                    of his children as yet survive reside in 
                        Kentucky
                    . What patriot and friend to his country, but will say that such
                    sufferers deserve the gratitude and bounty of their country?"
         
         
         
            BOOK REVIEWS
            
               A Medical History of the State of Indiana. By G. W. H. KEMPER, M.D. With an Introduction by ALEMBERT W. BRAYTON, M.D. Illustrated. 
                        Chicago
                    : American Medical Association Press, 1911. Pp. xxi, 393.
            [In this Department publications will be reviewed which deal with the history of
                    Indiana and the Old Northwest, and also books on other phases of history and on
                    political science written by Indiana authors.]
            Like other fields of Indiana history, that of its medical history has remained
                    untouched. Dr. Kemper has made the first attempt even in a meager way to sum up
                    the work done by the medical profession in Indiana. Of the many phases of this
                    work Dr. Kemper has given us an adequate treatment of only one.
            In the early days any man, red or white, was allowed by the law to practice
                    medicine. The practice was a strange confusion of science, herb nostrums and
                    Indian sorcery. From this condition the trained physicians from the Eastern
                    schools gradually lifted their profession till the Legislature provided for a
                    licensing board in each medical district of the State. These boards were
                    composed of the best physicians of the district, and, while they had no
                    effective way of preventing one to whom they refused a license from practicing,
                    yet the fact that one had been so refused greatly limited his uselessness. A
                    diploma granted by one of these district boards is reproduced by Dr. Kemper, p.
                    329.
            This first district organization, perhaps the earliest professional body in
                    Indiana, had a powerful effect on the profession in the State. The growth of
                    these organizations into the State Medical Society of 1849 would form an
                    interesting chapter in medical history. Dr. Kemper has published many valuable
                    descriptions of the work done by these early bodies, as remembered by some of
                    the later members and printed in the Transactions of the Indiana
                        State Medical Society, Chapters II, III, IV, V, VI, VIII, X, XI, XII,
                    XIII, XIV and XV. From the files of our early newspapers many interesting side
                    lights can be thrown on the subject of those chapters. The life of the early
                    practitioner rivalled in hardships that of the circuit rider. His practice
                    frequently extended over a territory twenty miles square. There were no roads,
                    often not even bridle paths through the forest. Many doctors lost their lives
                    swimming the streams on horseback. A glance at the biographies  in the back of Dr. Kemper's book will show
                    the hazards of the profession in the early days.
            Another interesting phase of the medical history of Indiana is that of education.
                    From the first lectures given by 
                        Vincennes
                     doctors at the old 
                        Vincennes
                     University, down to the present medical school maintained by
                    Indiana University at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is an era of struggle and accomplishment by the leaders of the
                    profession in the State that is worthy of a historian. Dr. Kemper has touched on
                    this field only briefly, noticing the work of Laporte Medical College and the
                    work of Dr. Bobbs at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            A third phase of Indiana medical history is that of prevalent diseases. Of these
                    perhaps cholera would be the most striking. Several old-time physicians have
                    left us good accounts of this disease and its terrors for the early Hoosiers.
                    The newspapers during the ‘30's and
                    ‘40's were full of news concerning the periodical ravages of
                    this disease. It seems to have been brought to the State during the early summer
                    by flatboatmen returning from 
                        New Orleans
                    , or on steamboats running the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    . Naturally the river cities suffered most, but such inland cities
                    as 
                        Salem
                     were depopulated.
            Almost as deadly as the cholera and more widespread in early Indiana was that
                    strange disease known as milk-sickness. The popular belief was that it was
                    contracted by drinking the milk of cows infected with the disease. It baffled
                    the physicians both in diagnosis and treatment. Early settlers avoided a place
                    afflicted with it as we would a community with bubonic plague.
            Most widespread but not so much feared was the ague—the
                    "ager" or "chills" of the good old days when
                    half of Indiana was a swamp and the other half covered with the miasma and bogs.
                    Many people regarded the chills as a joke. They were too often a prelude to the
                    malarial fevers which carried off thousands of early settlers and which are not
                    even yet unknown.
            These diseases, together with smallpox, measles and others, once dreaded, have
                    lost their terrors before the continuous warfare of the doctors.
            The development of surgery, the restrictions of the law regulating medical
                    practice, the construction of hospitals, the treatment of the insane, the
                    increasing attention given to sanitation and medical inspection of school
                    children are a few of the other phases of this subject whose treatment would be
                    found interesting to many readers.
            
            The volume under consideration is almost entirely biographical. Whatever else
                    there is included in it may be regarded as incidental. The author lists about
                    750 doctors who have practiced in the State. Their biographies, covering 130
                    pages all told, vary in length from one line to half a page. This book has a
                    good index.
            From a professional standpoint, the great fact in the medical history of Indiana
                    was the organization at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in June, 1849, of the State Medical Society. The Transactions of this society, issued annually, form the best source
                    for the historian. Dr. Kemper has used these freely. He has also made some use
                    of the different medical journals of the State, but of the general newspapers he
                    has made little or no use. Thirty-five portraits, many of them full page, add
                    value to the book. On the whole, though Dr. Kemper's book by no means
                    exhausts the subject, as a biographical dictionary of the profession in our
                    State, it is very valuable and we hope it may stimulate others to examine
                    further into this field.
            Does not the author on page 5 refer to Hon. Charles B. Lassalle where he has the
                    name Charles B. Lusdle? Dr. Key Kendall is the same as Kuykendall, the latter
                    being the usual form, at the bottom of page 18.
            L. E.
         
         
            
               The Essentials of International Public Law. By AMOS S. HERSHEY, Ph. D., Professor of
                    Political Science and International Law in Indiana University. Macmillan
                    Company, 
                        New York
                    , 1912. Pp. xlviii, 558.
            The best that can be said of any book is that it fully accomplishes its intended
                    purpose. In a peculiarly fitting sense this may be said of Professor
                    Hershey's book, which is intended "as an up-to-date text
                    adapted to the needs of the classroom," and as a "scientific
                    treatise" for the "specialist as well as the general
                    public."
            The first purpose is accomplished by a clear and concise statement of the
                    essentials of international public law. Its up-to-date character is evidenced by
                    brief but valuable chapters on "The Law of Aerial Space in Time of
                    Peace," "Aerial Warfare" and "International
                    Congresses and Conferences." Adequate treatment of the still generally
                    neglected subject of Insurgency (pp. 118, 119) marks this same spirit of
                    alertness. Though not always as readable as might be desired, the text is
                    characterized by the most admirable accuracy, and yet also by a delightful
                    freshness in point of view—made possible by the author's
                    breadth of vision and his clear perception of the (usually unnoticed) intimate
                    relation between international  law and the
                    other social sciences. These characteristics of the man, accentuated by his
                    marked independence of thought, give to his text a value rarely found in so
                    brief a book—a value perhaps greater for the specialist than for the
                    student in the classroom.
            The second purpose (possibly really first in importance in the mind of the
                    author), accomplished in part in the body of the text, is more signally achieved
                    in the elaborate mass of more or less extensive notes, which make up apparently
                    more than half the book. These notes will be of the highest value and
                    convenience to the trained scholar, not merely in 
                        England
                     and America, but on the continent as well, because in them the
                    author succinctly yet with surprising completeness discusses the more important
                    doubtful or disputed points of international practice, with especial emphasis
                    upon Anglo-American usage. Full and up-to-date references make this material
                    really a review of the "more important of the many recent contributions
                    to International Law contained in monographs and
                    periodicals—continental as well as Anglo-American." Perhaps
                    even more than the text, the notes are enlivened by Professor Hershey's
                    keen analysis of conflicting opinions or precedents, and by his often
                    iconoclastic attacks upon "obsolete" or undesirable portions
                    of present day law or practice—American practice occasionally
                    receiving well-deserved criticism, e. g., § 154,
                    "The Responsibility of States." Yet there are places where one
                    feels that the author's keen sense of what ought to be renders him
                    unfairly intolerant of things as they are, e. g., see his
                    unequivocal denunciation of the Anglo-American doctrine of
                    "Domicile" as "a travesty upon justice supported by
                    legal casuistry" (p. 444, n. 58).
            It is a pleasure to find a practically complete general bibliography built on
                    sound principles. This and the full topical bibliographies at the end of each
                    chapter mark a most commendable innovation in English textbooks of this kind. A
                    fairly complete index—Cuba, mentioned frequently in the text, is an
                    example of one omission—adds to the usefulness of the book.
            There is no space for the relatively unimportant criticism which might be made of
                    matters of detail, either of phraseology, of presentation or as regards
                    references, which, considering their vast number, are carefully made
            JAMES G. MCDONALD.
         
         
            
               The Rooster, Its Origin as the Democratic Emblem, is an
                    interesting little booklet by John F. Mitchell, Jr. Joseph Chapman, of 
                        Greenfield
                    , was an able and popular speaker and a great favorite on  account of his custom in his political
                    speeches of telling what large Democratic majorities there would be in every
                    county at the next election. This custom his opponents called
                    "crowing." About this time, in 1841, Jacob Page Chapman and
                    his brother, George H. Chapman, founded the Indiana State
                    Sentinel at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . These editors seized on the catchy phrase, "Crow,
                    Chapman, Crow," as their motto, and printed it regularly at the head of
                    their paper under a large rooster in the act of crowing. The editors of the Sentinel were not related to Joseph Chapman, of 
                        Greenfield
                    , and had nothing to do with the origin of the emblematic
                    "rooster," but the public knew little of Joseph Chapman and
                    soon associated Chapman's rooster with the editors of the Sentinel. The real "crowing" Chapman was killed in
                    the Mexican War. The old tavern which he kept still stands at 
                        Greenfield
                    .
         
         
            
               Social Progress in Contemporary Europe, by Professor FREDERIC A. OGG, of Simmons College. 
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1912. A brief survey of some of the more
                    important changes in social and economic conditions brought about in the
                    principal countries of Europe since the outbreak of the French Revolution.
                    Prepared for use as a required book by the Chautauqua Literary and Scientific
                    Circle in 1912- ’13, and hence popular in character.
         
         
            
               The Governments of Europe, by Professor FREDERIC A. OGG, of Simmons College. 
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1913. Prepared for textbook use in college
                    classes in government. Contains historical and descriptive treatment of all of
                    the national governmental systems of Europe, excepting those of Russia and the
                    Balkan states. Includes some treatment of political parties and of local
                    administration. More extended notice will appear later.
         
         
            NOTES AND COMMENT
            THE subject of "Indiana History in the Public
                    Schools" is a common one in teachers ’ circles just now, but
                    its meaning is anything but common to those that use it. Such materials as are
                    found in Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        , The Crossing, Stories of Indiana by Thompson, Historic Indiana by Levering, or the recent so-called school
                    histories of the State, make good supplementary reading, but should never be
                    confused with serious history.
            The field of Indiana history has never been covered by a historian  further than to 1816, at which point both Dillon
                    and Dunn stop. While Indiana has a great deal of history valuable in itself, its
                    chief value certainly lies in its relation to the larger history of the nation.
                    There is scarcely an important event in the national field of history but finds
                    its echo or counterpart in the State history. The Bank of the 
                        United States
                     should be studied through the State Bank of Indiana. The Erie Canal
                    should be linked with the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie. The 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Railroad, one of the very earliest in the 
                        United States
                    , was extended across Indiana in the early fifties. The demand for
                    the opening of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and the purchase of 
                        Louisiana
                     had its origin in the Ohio Valley States. The
                    whole question of Internal Improvements, the keystone of the Whig structure, can
                    be studied in Indiana as well as anywhere in the nation. The most picturesque
                    political campaign in American history was that of 1840. It was nowhere more
                    picturesque than in Indiana—indeed, its most dramatic incident was
                    the famous meeting on the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battlefield. The mobilization of armies and the scenes of real war
                    can be had in Indiana history during the Civil War. And so one might go on
                    through the fields of politics, education, commerce, religion, finding apt and
                    ample illustration in the records of our own State. It is matter for regret that
                    this material is not available for the teachers.
            THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY has recently published a Life of Thaddeus
                        Stevens, by Professor James A. Woodburn. A review will appear in the
                    next number of this magazine.
            PROFESSOR CHARLES AUGUSTUS TUTTLE, of 
                        Wabash
                     College, goes to Wesleyan University, 
                  Middletown, Connecticut
               , next year. As a parting honor, well
                    deserved, 
                        Wabash
                     College conferred on him the degree LL. D.
            PROFESSOR HARLOW LINDLEY
                    will spend the summer at the State Library, preparing a general plan for
                    indexing and arranging the historical materials in the library so that it can be
                    used more advantageously.
            PROFESSOR W. O. LYNCH, of the Indiana State
                    Normal, addressed the History Club of Indiana University Thursday evening, April
                    10. His address was on the "Economic Factors in the Election of
                    1840." The speaker discussed in detail the effect of the land laws,
                    especially the demand for gradation of prices, the banks, the National Road, the
                    work on the harbor at 
                        Michigan City
                    , and the influence of the 
                    State's Internal Improvement Scheme on the voters. Professor Lynch is
                    making a very valuable study and we hope to be able to publish it in this
                    magazine later.
            PROFESSOR A. S. HERSHEY, of Indiana
                    University, has been given leave of absence for the next year and will spend the
                    time traveling and studying. He has been awarded a Kahn Fellowship for the study
                    of International Law. He will first attend The Hague Peace Congress as a
                    delegate, after which he will spend considerable time in the Balkans, India,
                    China and Japan, studying the diplomatic situations in those countries.
            A WABASH COLLEGE HISTORICAL SOCIETY was formed during the past college
                    year, under the leadership of Professor Gibson, of the Department of History of
                    that institution. A strong initial membership indicates that 
                        Wabash
                     will sustain a good society and that these young students of
                    history will give a good account of themselves. Wabash has a worthy history of
                    its own, and this new society will be a helpful agency in preserving and making
                    known the notable past of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and 
                        Wabash
                    . At the first annual meeting of the 
                        Wabash
                     Society on June 5, 1913, Professor James A. Woodburn, of the
                    Indiana University, gave an address on "Local Life and Color in the New
                    Purchase." The address dealt chiefly with B. R. Hall's New Purchase, and with scenes and life in Indiana a hundred
                    years ago. It is to be hoped that similar societies will be formed at other
                    seats of learning. The field is large and each society would find a line of
                    interest of its own.
            DR. J. Z. POWELL, president of the 
                        Cass County
                     Historical Society, is writing a history of 
                        Cass County
                    . He expects to get it through the press this summer.
            THE INDIANA SOCIETY OF
                        CHICAGO has planned the publication of an Indiana
                    Souvenir as a part of its program for the centennial celebration. The late H. L.
                    Saylor had this work in charge and had planned a volume to be written by Dr.
                    Wynn, Dr. Bryan, Dr. Wood-burn, George Ade and others. The plan is to have
                    Governor Ralston furnish an introduction, calling attention to the desirability
                    of a celebration. President Bryan will suggest scope and plans for it, while
                    Professor Woodburn is expected to furnish a semi-serious sketch of the one
                    hundred years of State history. Gus Baumann, the wood-cut artist of 
                        Brown County
                    , will do the illustrations, assisted  in the field of character sketches by McCutcheon.
                    The venture promises to be a success.
            THE HISTORY SECTION OF
                    THE INDIANA STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION held its annual
                    meeting May 8, 9 and 10 at Caleb Mills Hall, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The first topic was "Moving Pictures as an Aid in
                    Teaching." Mr. Robert Lieber, the speaker, was enthusiastic in their
                    praise and used films by way of illustration. Ex-Superintendent of Public
                    Instruction Frank L. Jones followed him with a talk entitled, "Is Japan
                    a Great Nation?" admirably illustrated by colored stereopticon slides.
                    "The Industrial Movement in Its Relation to History" was
                    treated in a paper by E. E. Tyner, of 
                        Huntington
                    . The great question, as Mr. Tyner saw it, was whether the history
                    teachers could sway this industrial life in the interests of better living, or
                    whether it would dominate us completely. After a short discussion by Dr.
                    Harding, Miss Jennie McMullen took up the subject of "The High School
                    Course in History." Her plan was to shorten the time for ancient and
                    medieval history and put in more time on the modern period, dwelling
                    particularly on economic and civic phases. Frederic C. Melcher, an expert on
                    bookmaking with the W. K. Stewart Company, discussed the mechanical side of
                    textbook making. W. O. Wissler, of 
                        Richmond
                    , discussed "The Choice of a Textbook." Rev.
                    Robert N. Fulton discussed the Balkan situation, emphasizing the work of Roberts
                    College at Constantinople. On Friday afternoon Dr. James T. Shotwell, of 
                        Columbia
                     University, addressed the section. His remarks are printed
                    elsewhere in this number.
            At the Friday evening session the subject of the Centennial Celebration was
                    discussed by Lew O'Bannon, of Corydon, Demarchus C. Brown, State
                    Librarian, and Dr. Frank B. Wynn, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Resolutions favoring the celebration, and especially the work of
                    gathering and publishing the historical materials of the State's
                    history, were adopted.
            Saturday morning O. H. Williams, of 
                        Bloomington
                    , spoke on "Some Impressions of History Work from the
                    Students' Point of View." The last address of the meeting was
                    delivered by Professor James A. Woodburn, of Indiana University, on
                    "Indiana History and Its Celebration." This address we hope tb
                    publish later in this magazine. Officers for the ensuing year were elected as
                    follows: President—Harlow Lindley, Earlham College;
                    Vice-President—C. W. Haworth, 
                        Kokomo
                    ; Secretary—Hope W. Graham. 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
      
   
