
      ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 107, Issue 2, pages 89-194. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:107+issue:2+year:2011&browseMode=source
    
 ----FULL TEXT----
        
          
               
               
               
               
               
               

          
          
               
               

                    Stabbed in the Back

                    Vincennes, Slavery, and the Indian "Threat"

                    PATRICK BOTTIGER

                    During the opening decade of the nineteenth century, two towns on the
                         Northwest frontier stood in apparent opposition to one another. Native
                         Americans established Prophetstown as a haven against the cultural assault
                         of European Americans. European Americans, in the meantime, colonized
                                   Vincennes as an outpost
                         in what they saw as a bountiful wilderness surrounded by savages. This
                         simple dichotomy, however, fails even to scratch the surface of the complex
                         story of the divisions and factions that beset both communities. As the two
                         communities divided internally, they also moved toward overt conflict with
                         each other. The violence that eventually erupted between the Americans and
                         nativist Indians at the Battle of Tippecanoe in November 1811 was as much a
                         product of intra-community factionalism as it was of the increasingly
                         violent relationships between Indians and non-Natives on the frontier.
                         Conflicting national visions in Vincennes exacerbated Americans' fears
                         of Prophetstown and propelled them toward conflict with the nativist 
                              Patrick Bottiger is an assistant professor of history at Florida
                                   Gulf Coast University. He would like to thank the Bentley
                                   Historical Library at the University of Michigan, the Lilly
                                   Library at Indiana University, the University of Wisconsin, and a
                                   Carl J. Ekberg Research Grant from the Center for French Colonial
                                   Studies, North Central College, for supporting his
                                   research.
                         
                          Indians to their north.1 What happened in Vincennes gains particular importance in
                         contrast with other recent scholarship. Patrick Griffin argues that ideas
                         of innate racial difference crystallized in the northern Ohio River Valley
                         in the three decades after the end of the Seven Years War, largely as the
                         result of the polarizing effects of constant violence and warfare.
                         According to Griffin, white frontier settlers grudgingly recognized their
                         common racial heritage with the revolutionaries in the East and sacrificed
                         some of their autonomy in exchange for protection from the new government.
                         Peter Silver, in his study of residents of the middle colonies, finds that
                         they also developed a common racial identity because of shared
                         victimization from Indian attacks. Both historians highlight the
                         construction of late eighteenth-century Indian and European American racial
                         identities based upon frontier violence between the two groups. In
                         contrast, I argue that the concept of shared victimization was also
                         constructed by European Americans in order to marginalize other European
                         Americans. In Vincennes, American frontiersmen used issues surrounding
                         Native Americans and Prophetstown as the basis for attacks against their
                         political and social rivals; they showed equal or even greater concern with
                         defending their individual honor and their conflicting national visions
                         than with protecting their town or their shared racial identity.2 My work argues that the internal 
                              1Works including R. David Edmunds, The Shawnee Prophet (Lincoln, Neb., 1983); John Sugden, Tecumseh: A Life (New
                                             York, 1997); Sugden, Blue Jacket: Warrior of the Shawnees
                                             (Lincoln,
                                             Neb., 2003); Robert
                                   Owens, Mr. Jefferson's Hammer: William Henry
                                        Harrison and the Origins of American Indian Policy
                                             (Norman,
                                             Okla., 2007);
                                   Harvey Lewis Carter, The Life and Times of Little
                                        Turtle: First Sagamore of the Wabash
                                             (Urbana,
                                             Ill., 1987);
                                   Bradley Birzer, "Entangling Empires, Fracturing Frontiers:
                                   Jean Baptiste Richardville and the Quest for Miami Autonomy,
                                   1760-1841" (Ph.D. diss., Indiana University, 1998) analyze
                                   important figures in Vincennes and Prophetstown
                                   without fully evaluating the communities from which they emerged.
                                   Richard White, The Middle Ground: Indians, Empires,
                                        and Republics in the Great Lakes Region, 1650-1815
                                             (Cambridge,
                                             UK, 1991);
                                   and Gregory Dowd, A Spirited Resistance: The North
                                        American Indian Struggle for Unity, 1745-1815
                                             (Baltimore,
                                             Md., 1993) delve
                                   into larger social movements, but they only briefly evaluate
                                   Prophetstown and Vincennes. Scholars have
                                   framed their analyses around a racial dichotomy embodied by the
                                   expansionist-minded Americans whom the confederated Indians
                                   opposed. This article is part of a larger work that emphasizes
                                   how intra-community factionalism determined the relationships
                                   between Prophetstown and Vincennes.
                              2Barbara Jeanne Fields, "Slavery, Race,
                                   and Ideology in the United States of America," New Left Review 181 (May/June 1990), 95-118. Fields
                                   argues for the social construction of race; Patrick Griffin and
                                   Peter Silver have applied this theory to Indian affairs in the
                                   Ohio Valley. Patrick Griffin, American Leviathan:
                                   Empire, Nation, and Revolutionary Frontier
                                   (New York,
                                   2007); Peter Silver, Our Savage Neighbors: How
                                   Indian War Transformed America (New York, 2008).
                         
                         
                         
                              William Henry Harrison, portrayed as the victorious commander of
                                   the Battle of Tippecanoe in an 1840 lithograph by Currier and
                                   Ives. In 1811 Vincennes, Harrison was widely criticized by his
                                   opponents for his decision to attack Prophetstown and for the
                                   loss of troops during the battle. Later history was most likely
                                   to portray him as above.
                              Courtesy Prints and Photographs Divsion, Library of Congress
                         
                          divisions within Vincennes and
                         Prophetstown were as important to the development of racial ideologies, as
                         was the frontier violence that developed between American Indian and
                         European American communities.
                    Intra-community factionalism was nowhere more apparent on the Northwest
                         frontier than at Vincennes during the early 1800s. Located on the Wabash
                         River about 180 miles southwest of Prophetstown, Vincennes was not merely
                         an outpost of European American civilization. It was a community riven by
                         divisions, and as the factions contested with one another, they seized upon
                         the image of Prophetstown for their own political and economic purposes.
                         Such behavior was most apparent in their contest over the legal and moral
                         justifications for allowing slavery in the territory. Unable to compromise
                         over the role of slavery in the development of the territory, the Americans
                         began fighting each other for control of territorial politics in order to
                         institute their policies. Much of this debate focused on William Henry
                         Harrison's governance and policies-in particular, his handling of
                         Indian affairs. Eventually, Harrison and his supporters would attack his
                         political opponents by identifying them with Prophetstown, continually
                         connecting them with Tenskwatawa, his brother Tecumseh, and their militant
                         designs on Vincennes. The Harrisonians' attempts to silence their
                         adversaries failed; instead the rhetoric amplified perceptions of a
                         militant Prophetstown and intensified native-white antagonisms that were
                         ultimately unleashed in the Battle of Tippecanoe.3
                         While historians have analyzed the violent relationship that developed
                         between Vincennes and Prophetstown during the early 1800s, this article
                         examines the extent to which the resulting bloodshed between Indians and
                         Euro-Americans was a product of the factionalism that prevailed within
                         Vincennes.
                    Although the territorial dialogue treated slavery as a national issue, the
                         dispute was local in substance. The territorial government established in
                         1800 at Vincennes oversaw more
                         than 5,000 Anglos in 200,000 square miles. Most of the twenty territorial
                         officials lived within the confines of Vincennes and had few, if any,
                         connections to the outlying settlements. Settlers' security rested
                         fundamentally on their ability to maintain peaceful relationships with
                         nearby Indian communities and to 
                              3My use of the term "white" does
                                   not refer to a racial group, but rather to the community of
                                   American, French, Swiss, and other cultural groups who lived in
                                   or near Vincennes. Using the term "American" would only
                                   speak to one aspect of the community and so would exclude other
                                   cultural groups such as the French.
                         
                          earn a living by farming, trading, or
                         speculating in lands that both Europeans and Indians wanted. Competition
                         for resources demanded that Americans consider European and Indian
                         interests, which required a delicate balance of trade and goodwill between
                         the various peoples in the area. Vincennes as a political capitol was as
                         much, if not more, a product of the interplay between the local cultures as
                         it was of the political dictates from 
                              Washington, D.C. National laws
                         mattered very little in a society where no single culture or party held
                         sway.
                    Slavery, legally prohibited by the Northwest Ordinance of 1787, persisted in
                         the region after 1800: in part, because the French and Indian residents had
                         a long-standing practice of owning slaves, but also because territorial
                         governors like Arthur St. Clair and Harrison did not enforce its
                         prohibition. The federal government during the early republic lacked the
                         necessary machinery to regulate and check territorial governments.
                         Territorial governors enjoyed great power and expected to benefit from
                         their posts. Andrew Cayton argues that they were "frontier potentates,
                         legally responsible only to the president of the United States, who
                         appointed them to office in the first place."4
                         Such power meant that governors had no real impetus to do away with the
                         institution of forced labor—an institution that benefited them as major
                         landholders. Harrison's failure to enforce Article Six of the
                         ordinance risked no political repercussions because Thomas Jefferson was
                         not about to fire a fellow Virginian with whom he shared similar political
                         and racial ideals. Harrison also enjoyed an absolute veto over all
                         territorial legislation; he appointed the territorial judges and secretary
                         and thus controlled the opposition to slavery in the courts.5 It is no surprise that he supported and signed the proslavery
                         petition that the Indiana Territorial Convention sent to Congress in 1802.
                         Territorial leaders claimed that the ban on slavery had forced many people
                         to emigrate to the "Spanish side of the Mississippi, most of whom but
                         for the prohibition contained in the ordinance would have settled in this
                              Territory."6 Harrison and his 
                              4Andrew Cayton, Frontier
                                   Indiana (Bloomington,
                                   Ind., 1996), 229.
                              5Jefferson allowed Harrison to appoint the
                                   territorial judges and secretary. The president did not know
                                   them, felt that Harrison would make better choices, and returned
                                   the form on which he was supposed to have written the names, with
                                   his signature and the instruction to Harrison to fill it out
                                   himself.
                              6Memorial and Petition of the Indiana
                                   Territorial Convention to the U.S. Congress, December 28, 1802.
                                   Douglas E. Clanin and Ruth Dorrel, eds., The Papers of William
                                   Henry Harrison, 1800-1815 (microfilm, 12 reels,
                                   Indianapolis,
                                   Ind., 1994), reel 1, pp. 461-62; Cayton, Frontier
                                        Indiana, 188.
                         
                          supporters believed that the ban on
                         slavery inhibited rapid, large-scale settlement of the territory and thus
                         withheld revenues from the expensive territorial government at
                         Vincennes.
                    By 1805, slavery had become the most divisive issue in Vincennes. The
                         increasingly hostile environment in the town forced many of the territorial
                         leaders to take sides regarding Harrison's policies. The resulting
                         factions consisted of well-educated men from around the United States and
                         Europe who had a firm understanding of republican ideology and the
                         political atmosphere in Washington, D.C., which they used to defend their
                         territorial vision. Benjamin Parke, Thomas Randolph, Elihu Stout, and
                         William Henry Harrison were proslavery men who hoped to overturn Article
                         Six of the Northwest Ordinance or at least pass a law restricting its
                         application in the territory. From 1804 to 1808, Parke served as the
                         territory's attorney general, a position held thereafter by Thomas
                         Randolph, a first cousin to Thomas Jefferson. Stout, originally from
                         New
                         Jersey, had migrated to the territory from
                         Kentucky to serve as the
                         territorial printer in 1803. These four men represented Harrison's
                         core group of supporters and defended the governor's stance on slavery
                         as well as his policies toward the local Indians. They hoped to force the
                         Indians out of the territory by purchasing their lands, and then to open up
                         the area to slaveholders in order to spur settlement.
                    The anti-Harrisonians, while from divergent backgrounds, shared the belief
                         that slavery would undermine American labor and prevent the settlement of
                         the territory, and they disagreed with Harrison's Indian policy
                         because it seemed to punish the Indians for defending their property. One
                         of the influential leaders in this anti-Harrison faction was Swiss
                         immigrant John Badollet, who in 1804 had been appointed as register for the
                         new territorial land office. Besides Badollet, the most influential of
                         these men were Nathaniel Ewing, Dr. Elias McNamee, Judge John Johnson,
                         William McIntosh, and Jonathan Jennings. Ewing was the receiver of public
                         monies, McNamee a doctor in town, Johnson a territorial judge, and Jennings
                         worked with Stout before he became the territorial representative in
                         Congress. McIntosh had moved to the territory after fighting with the
                         British during the Revolutionary War, and had served as the territorial
                         treasurer until 1804.
                    The two factions' differing perspectives on slavery reflected the
                         developing economic structure in the territory. Most of the Americans owned
                         individual farms outside of Vincennes, while the French continued to farm
                         their communal holdings in town. Small manufacturers also popped up
                         throughout the southern half of the territory, so that by 1810,  33 gristmills, 14 sawmills, 28 distilleries,
                         1,256 looms, 1,850 spinning-wheels, and 18 tanneries produced nearly
                         $160,000 worth of manufactured goods.7 In other words, the local
                         environment gave independent laborers better opportunities because it was
                         conducive to small-scale manufacturing and farming, which dominated the
                         economic landscape in the region. Most American residents opposed the
                         legalization of slavery in the territory because it would provide incentive
                         for individuals to buy vast tracts of land while also undercutting the need
                         for hired help, thereby replacing free labor with slaves. Those who
                         supported slavery tended to own more land and stood to benefit from the
                         increased use of slave labor. They hoped that slaves and large-scale
                         agriculture would increase their profits.
                    Vincennes lacked the restrictive slave
                         codes present in the southern states, and, while the legal record reflects
                         this, the public rhetoric regarding slavery does not. Many European
                         Americans circumvented the Northwest Ordinance's ban on slavery by
                         freeing their slaves and then forcing them to agree to ninety-nine-year
                         indentures. Other residents found slavery in any form to be directly
                         against the soul of the American Revolution. The town's factions
                         argued about republican ideals and the founding fathers' relationships
                         with slaves, but without mentioning the actual slave community in
                                   Vincennes. The judicial
                         record of Vincennes reflects an African American community that enjoyed
                         relative social and legal freedoms when compared to the more restrictive
                         lives of slaves in the southern states. In 1807, for example, a female
                         slave lodged a complaint against her master for "ill usage & cruel
                         treatment"; the court responded in her favor.8 Slaves and free African
                         Americans gathered freely with each other and walked throughout the town
                         without passes or supervision; even when imprisoned, slaves could count on
                         the European 
                              7John B. Dillon, A History of
                                   Indiana (Indianapolis,
                                   Ind., 1859), 439.
                              8In December 1807, Ann, an indentured
                                   servant labeled a "Mulatto" and "Negroe" in
                                   the judicial record, lodged a complaint against her owner James
                                   Trimble for "ill usage & cruel treatment" in the
                                   Court of Common Pleas. The court ruled that Trimble "enter
                                   into recognizance" at the clerk's office and ordered
                                   that he "shall not in [the] future abuse or unreasonably
                                   chastise his said servant during the time she remains in his ...
                                   controle." Court of Common Pleas for Knox County—Saturday,
                                   December 5, 1807, box 12, folder 856, Indiana State Archives,
                                             Indianapolis. I use the term
                                   "slave" to describe indentured African Americans in
                                             Vincennes
                                   because their ninety-nine-year indentures made them de facto
                                   slaves.
                         
                          American community to protect their
                              rights.9 Yet despite a relatively greater degree
                         of African American mobility, the antislavery men in Vincennes continued to
                         point to slaveholding practices in the Carolinas and Georgia as exemplary
                         for Indiana Territory. The disconnect between local reality and the
                         antislavery rhetoric printed in The Western Sun reflected the extent to
                         which the parties would ratchet up their language in order to marginalize
                         their political enemies. The factions might have found common ground had
                         they actually discussed the practical application of slavery in their
                         community. Instead, they hardened in their opposition, seeking to influence
                         Congress through petitions and by electing a territorial representative
                         responsive to their views. Congress ignored their petitions, which left the
                         factions to settle the issue themselves. They would continue to bicker over
                         slavery and congressional representation, even as Indian affairs threatened
                         to undermine the safety of their town.
                    The Americans spent much of 1807 and 1808 arguing about slavery through
                         petitions and through attacks in the local newspaper, The
                              Western Sun; in 1809, the factions continued to argue the issue
                         when they began mobilizing for territorial elections. The rhetoric of the
                         debate was unique to Vincennes, following a peculiar course that
                         refashioned larger political ideologies and leaders in local terms.
                         Associations with Jefferson played well among the voters of the territory,
                         who increasingly feared the aristocratic tendencies of the Federalists. As
                         the 1809 election neared, the anti-Harrisonians focused on differentiating
                         pro-Harrison candidate Thomas Randolph from his cousin Thomas Jefferson.
                         McNamee and Badollet saw Randolph's political principles as
                         "diametrically opposite to those of Jefferson." McNamee even
                         called Harrison a Federalist, recalling his role as a delegate to Congress
                         from the Northwest Territory and relating how Harrison spoke in favor of
                         Federalist principles like the need for a standing army and advocated
                         "most of the extravigant measures of John Adams's
                         administration." McNamee also reminded people that it was Adams who
                         had "made [Harrison] governor of Indiana."10
                         By characterizing Harrison as a Federalist and then associating Randolph
                         with him, the 
                              9In 1808, authorities discovered a
                                   "coloured man" named Caleb dead in the town jail, but
                                   after the coroner, Jacob Kuykendall, and twelve men inspected the
                                   body, they concluded that Caleb died from "natural sickness
                                   & malady, and not otherwise." The town authorities made
                                   sure that the slave's rights had been protected. Court of
                                   Common Pleas for Knox County-October 1808, box 15, file 1013,
                                   Indiana State Archives.
                              10The Western Sun, May 13,
                                   1809.
                         
                          anti-Harrisonians hoped to undermine
                         Randolph's Jeffersonian connections and convince people not to vote
                         for him.
                    Each side constructed a version of Jeffersonian republicanism suited to its
                         own stance on slavery, focusing on issues including the religious rationale
                         for slavery and the ways in which slavery would affect free white labor.
                         Badollet, like other anti-Harrisonians, spoke of maintaining "free and
                         independent men" in the territory; another of his fellows argued that
                         "in the stocking of our country with herds of negroes the now poor
                         would become indigent, because in proportion as the negroes increase in our
                         territory, the price of labor will assuredly decrease," causing the
                         "hard working poor white man who now earns 50 cents per day to support
                         himself and family" to be displaced by the slave earning no more than
                         25 cents. Slavery, he continued, would "tarnish the fame of our
                         growing country, hitherto held up as the asylum of freedom!!" In
                         opposition, loyal Harrisonian Parke claimed that slavery was necessary in
                         the territory because a class of laboring poor did not exist in the area.
                         Residents were "too proud and independent to be day
                         labourers."' Slaves were like spinning machines and printing
                         presses—they were tools necessary for the advancement of industry and the
                         creation of a competitive and open market. If one restricted invention and
                         progress, one courted aristocratic autocracy. Legalizing slavery allowed
                         Americans to shape their own futures by creating the tools through which
                         they could succeed. Parke argued that God had ordained slavery by favoring
                         slave owners Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and he vowed to "unmask [the]
                         gentlemen" who opposed the institution so that the public could
                         "behold [them] in all [their] naked deformity."12 Badollet blamed Parke for laying the groundwork for a
                         factionalized Vincennes. Allarmed at the approaching destruction of all his hopes[,] ... he
                              [Harrison] formed with Judge Park & Randolph a Caucus wherein were
                              written & whence flew in every direction the most abusive and
                              artfull pieces. Parke whose republicanism had been neutralized in the
                              Governor's atmosphere, did not disdain at the nod of his master
                              to descend from his elevated station, to enlist in the ranks, nay to
                              place himself at the head of a faction.13
                         
                              11"For the Western Sun," The Western Sun, February 4, 1809.
                              12"For the Western Sun," The Western Sun, February 7, 1808.
                              13John Badollet to Albert Gallatin, November
                                   13, 1809, in Gayle Thornbrough, ed., The Correspondence of John
                                   Badollet and Albert Gallatin, 1804-1856 (Indianapolis,
                                   Ind.,
                                   1963), 122.
                         
                          Refusing to compromise on the issue,
                         Harrisonians and anti-Harrisonians alike hoped that the upcoming vote would
                         settle the debate. The factions viewed the election as a referendum on
                         slavery, but the results left the issue unsettled. The election was
                         extremely close—Jonathan Jennings, an antislavery advocate and friend to
                         Badollet, received 428 votes to Randolph's 402. The Harrisonians
                         refused to recognize the results, exacerbating the factionalism already
                              present.14
                    The anti-Harrisonians recognized their opportunity and quickly began
                         attacking Harrison and his policies. Once in Washington, D.C., Jennings
                         called for a six-part investigation of the governor in an attempt to negate
                         his reappointment. At the same time, John Johnson authored an article in
                         The Western Sun claiming that Harrison had dissolved the territorial
                         assembly when it failed to meet his expectations. Johnson's article
                         echoed similar accusations offered by McNamee in a letter to the president
                         of the Senate. The anti-Harrisonians recognized the governor's right,
                         under the Ordinance of 1787, to dissolve the assembly, but felt that he had
                         abused his power. In response, the Harrisonians sent Johnson's article
                         throughout the territory in an attempt to garner support against their
                         "malicious" and "vapid" enemies.15
                         The letter only further angered the governor's supporters, who were
                         already distraught over their loss in the territorial election. The
                         reassigning of the western counties of Indiana to Illinois Territory in
                         February 1809, as well as an increasingly democratic political atmosphere
                         that reduced property qualifications for white males to vote and allowed
                         territorial residents (rather than the House of Representatives) to elect
                         their legislative council, isolated and marginalized Harrison
                              thereafter.16 While the Harrisonians had sought to
                         construct a society around slavery, they were now fighting to maintain any
                         sort of political power.





                    
                         14Ralph D. Gray, Indiana History: A
                         Book of Readings (Bloomington,
                              Ind., 1994), 66.
                         15William Henry Harrison to Thomas Randolph,
                              November 13, 1810, William Henry Harrison Papers, reel 3, p. 645;
                              Gayle Thornbrough and Dorothy Riker, eds., Journals of
                                   the General Assembly of Indiana Territory, 1805-1815
                                        (Indianapolis,
                                        Ind., 1950), 268,
                              314.
                         16Andrew Cayton writes: "Congress declared
                              that the territorial delegate and the members of the legislative
                              council would hereafter be elected by the people rather than the house
                              of representatives. In addition, the legislature was to decide how to
                              apportion seats in the lower house. These measures, combined with a
                              reduction in the property qualifications for voting the previous year,
                              amounted to a significant opening of the political system in the
                              Indiana Territory." Cayton, Frontier Indiana,
                              248.
                    


                    

                    
                         John Badollet, from an undated lithograph. Badollet became one of the
                              leaders of the opposition to Harrison and his policies. He was
                              particularly influential because of his longtime friendship and
                              correspondence with Albert Gallatin.
                         Gayle Thornbrough, ed., The Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                              Gallatin
                    


                    Following the election, Harrison approached Badollet after discovering that
                         he had circulated an antislavery petition throughout the territorial
                         counties. Their heated discussion dampened what had been a sociable
                         relationship. Harrison took personal offense to the petition and
                         remonstrated against Badollet in a letter to Albert Gallatin, who was not
                         only Badollet's longtime friend, but also an influential diplomat
                         during his service as secretary of the treasury for Thomas Jefferson and
                         James Madison. The governor related his demand that Badollet explain his
                         actions, also writing that such an explanation was "Not given & a
                         distant & Cold politeness Succeeded to our former intimacy."
                         Claiming a desire to protect Badollet, Harrison wrote that he had
                         "prevented a petition being Sent from this County Signed as I am Sure
                         it would be by at least four fif[t]hs of the Citizens for the removal both
                         of the Register [Badollet] & Receiver [Ewing]."17 In an angry postscript comment, Harrison reminded Gallatin
                         that there were people in Vincennes 
                              17Harrison to Gallatin, August 29, 1809,
                                   William Henry Harrison Papers, reel 3, pp. 474, 477.
                         
                          intimately connected to Jefferson,
                         specifically Thomas Randolph. "Ewing's disposition for tatling
                         & scandal," he warned, would likely result in Thomas's cousin
                         John Randolph "calling upon you for an explanation." John
                         Randolph was an influential Virginian congressman and a supporter of
                         slavery. Harrison hoped that his claim to such a connection might
                         intimidate Gallatin. Moreover, the governor claimed that Ewing had
                         "said some time since at a tavern that [Gallatin] had informed him
                         that Mr. J. Randolph [second cousin to Jefferson] was known to be entirely
                         under British influence... & may probably have communicated it to his
                         relation-altho' he declared his disbelief of the story at the
                              time."18 In a terse, unsigned reply, Gallatin
                         defended Badollet and said that he had never made any comment about John
                         Randolph. To Harrison, Badollet was now an enemy. To Badollet, Harrison was
                         a "Moral cameleon" with a "nefarious and impolitic project
                         of introducing slavery into this Territory ... whereby he has greatly
                         impeded its population and filled it [with] intrigue and discord."19
                    Badollet's petition was just one element of a broader anti-Harrisonian
                         campaign. Before the election, the antislavery men had allied with the
                         proslavery Illinois factions in favor of territorial
                         division. The residents of Illinois
                         would win division from Indiana Territory and construct a government more
                         responsive to their needs.20 In the process, Harrison
                         would lose a large group of proslavery supporters.21
                         The governor's opponents, including Badollet and Ewing, saw this as a
                         victory for Indiana Territory and for Vincennes, reflecting their provincial focus
                         rather than a larger sense of national antislavery sentiment. Badollet said
                         Harrison "became enraged against Ewing & [himself], accustomed to
                         a 
                              18Harrison to Gallatin, August 29, 1809, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 113.
                              19Badollet to Gallatin, November 13, 1809,
                                   and Gallatin to Harrison, September 27, 1809, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert Gallatin,
                                   116-17, 113-14. Brackets added by the original editors.
                              20Paul Finkelman states that in 1809,
                                   "the new Illinois Territory adopted the statutes that had
                                   supported slavery and servitude in Indiana Territory." In
                                   fact, Illinois Territory prohibited free blacks from immigrating
                                   into the territory. Finkelman, Slavery and the
                                        Founders: Race and Liberty in the Age of Jefferson
                                             (New York,
                                   2001), 73.
                              21Francis S. Philbrick, ed., The Laws of Indiana Territory, 1801-1809
                                             (Springfield,
                                             Ill., 1930), xxx.
                                   Harrison had lost the western, heavily proslavery, counties
                                   currently in present-day Illinois and Wisconsin. Harrison continued to
                                   fight the territorial assembly and political factions within the
                                   region and as a result, "the Assembly instructed the
                                   delegate of the territory in Congress to procure a repeal of the
                                   absolute veto power, as also of the powers to prorogue and
                                   dissolve the Assemble, giving him only the powers held by the
                                   President of the United
                                   States."
                         
                          blind devotion to his mandates, he
                         could not conceive such indepen- dance, such rebellious boldness."22 Harrison's anger was understandable; he had
                         experienced a drastic decline in his ability to govern the territory on his
                         terms. Not only was he politically weakened by the loss of the western
                         settlements in Illinois country, but the
                         territorial representative was actively lobbying against him in Washington
                         City.
                    Harrison's anxiety during this period influenced his handling of Indian
                         affairs in the territory. While the governor was absorbed with the
                         congressional race between Randolph and Jennings, and then with the
                         political fallout from the latter's victory and new influence in
                                   Washington, a
                         new Native American settlement had appeared 100 miles to the north of the
                         territorial capital. In March 1808, the Shawnee leader Tecumseh and his
                         brother Tenskwatawa had moved their followers from Ohio to a new town at the confluence of the
                              Wabash and
                         Tippecanoe Rivers. Tecumseh and his supporters adamantly opposed the
                         continued westward settlement of non-Indians in the Wabash Valley, and now
                         a relatively short trip down the Wabash
                         would bring them to Vincennes. Both
                         Meriwether Lewis and William Wells, the government Indian agent at Fort
                         Wayne, warned Harrison of a possible war. The anti-Harrisonians waited, in
                         vain, for the governor to send emissaries throughout the region. Instead,
                         according to Badollet, Harrison "posted two companies... four miles
                         from Vincennes, where they spent the working
                         season in sloth and idle mockery of military manoeuvres."23 The anti-Harrisonians were especially angry at this
                         because they believed that the militiamen would not be prepared in the
                         event of an attack. While Badollet may have overreacted to the situation,
                         even Parke, a close confidant of Harrison's, expressed fear that the
                         Indians on the Wabash were a threat.24 Rumors of
                         killings at Prophetstown, coupled with Indian depredations further west in
                         Illinois Territory, convinced some residents that the violence was
                         spreading in the direction of Vincennes.25



                    
                         22Badollet to Gallatin, November 13, 1809, Correspondence ofJohn Badollet and Albert Gallatin,
                              121.
                         23Badollet to Gallatin, November 13, 1809, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                              Gallatin, 127-28. On the conflict between Wells and Harrison, see
                              Paul A. Hutton, "William Wells: Frontier Scout and Indian
                              Agent," Indiana Magazine of History 74
                              (September 1978), 204-222. 
                         24Clarence Edwin Carter, ed., The
                                   Territorial Papers of the United States, vol. 7, The Territory of Indiana, 1800-1810
                              (Washington,
                              D.C., 1939), 650.
                         25The rumors were reports that a small war party
                              of Ottawa and Ojibwe Indians killed an Indian woman at Prophetstown in
                              the spring of 1809, and reports of an attack on Fort Madison by Sac
                              and Ho-Chunk Indians in late 1808. Edmunds, Shawnee
                                   Prophet, 70-78.
                    


                    


                    The motives of the local Indian communities were increasingly at issue.
                         Tenskwatawa and Tecumseh adamantly opposed the continued westward
                         settlement of whites, but this opposition did not necessarily translate
                         into a predisposition for war and violence. Mounting a war against the
                         Americans or even attacking Vincennes was unlikely simply because the
                         settlers at Prophetstown lacked the unity, resources, and numbers to
                         maintain a prolonged conflict. Still, while Prophetstown may not have been
                         gearing toward war during this period, violence between Indians and whites
                         was relatively common. Fearing that a new Indian community would only
                         exacerbate frontier violence was a logical conclusion given past incidents
                         in the region. However, the polarized political atmosphere in
                         Vincennes, in
                         particular the debate over how Harrison handled Indian affairs, made the
                         growth of Prophetstown after 1808 a flashpoint.
                    Harrison had already demonstrated that he could deftly use his powers as
                         governor to expand American interests while marginalizing his political
                         rivals. Now he used the threat of an Indian war to challenge those
                         residents of Vincennes who had
                         undermined his authority and, he charged, exacerbated an already tense
                         situation with local Indian communities. Blaming his enemies for Indian
                         depredations was an easy way for the governor to undermine any support they
                         may have had in the territory. After several Wabash Indian communities
                         declined to meet the governor during the fall of 1809, Harrison addressed
                         the General Assembly at Vincennes, spreading the impression that, in
                         Badollet's words, "[he] had met with difficulties in his
                         negociation from the macchinations of certain enemies of their country
                         residing at Vincennes."26 Harrison suggested that
                         his political foes had failed to stop his policies in the assembly and had
                         then, in order to destabilize the governor's leadership, convinced the
                         local Indians to reject his attempts to negotiate treaties.27
                    As the factional strife became associated with differences over Indian
                         policy, the participants became more agitated, sometimes turning to
                         physical violence. Discovering that McNamee had questioned Harrisonian
                         policies in the newspaper, Randolph challenged the doctor 
                              26Badollet to Gallatin, November 13, 1809,
                                        Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 114. Brackets added by the original
                                   editors.
                              27Thornbrough and Riker, Journals of the General Assembly of Indiana Territory,
                                   321-22.
                         
                          to a duel.28
                         McNamee, a Quaker, refused and had Randolph arrested. He swore to Judge
                         Henry Vanderburgh "that Thomas Randolph of the county of Knox Esquire
                         hath challenged him to fight a duel, and that he hath good reason to
                         believe and doth verily believe that the said Thomas Randolph will take his
                         life and do him some bodily harm."29 Randolph
                         remained on the hunt, finding and attacking William McIntosh in the streets
                         of Vincennes.30
                         McIntosh suffered superficial cuts to his face, but Randolph was not so
                         fortunate. McIntosh stabbed him in the back, leaving him close to death for
                         several days. The vulgar rhetoric that had characterized the newspaper
                         debate spilled out into the streets, reflecting the extent to which
                         violence had replaced a balanced discussion of the issues.
                    The physical confrontation between the factions coincided with more rumors
                         that the anti-Harrisonians had attempted to undermine treaty negotiations
                         with the local Indian communities. Colonel John Small reported that
                         "some abandoned profligate, in the garb of an American, attempted to
                         frustrate, entirely, the treaty."31 This report,
                         which reinforced the fear propagated by Harrison in his speech to the
                         territorial assembly, may have been a ploy to discredit the governor's
                         political enemies. According to Small, someone had informed the
                         discontented Indians that the President of the United States did not agree
                         to the 1809 Treaty of Fort Wayne, the signing of which Tecumseh and
                         Tenskwatawa had refused to attend. Some residents of the territory believed
                         that Harrison had negotiated it only to "retrieve his declining
                         popularity," while others hoped to interrogate the men involved to
                         learn the truth of what had transpired. When questioned about his sources,
                         Small named Elias McNamee. When confronted, McNamee "said, that he had
                         never told colonel Small any such thing!!!"32 The
                         Harrisonians attributed McNamee's denial to yet another opposition
                         trick. Rather than arrive at any sort of conclusion on the issue, the
                         factions began using the information against each other.



                    
                         28Correspondence of John Badollet
                                   and Albert Gallatin, 119 n6.
                         29William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana
                              (Indianapolis,
                              Ind., 1883), 396-97.
                         30Carter, Territorial Papers of the
                                   United States, 7:667.
                         31The treaty of which Small speaks was an
                              addendum to the Fort Wayne treaty of 1805. The Western
                                   Sun, November 18, 1809.
                         32Ibid.
                    


                    
                    Stout simultaneously printed pro-Harrison accounts of the 1809 treaty and
                         requests for residents to return petitions in favor of the governor's
                         re-appointment to his office. People throughout the Ohio Valley and the
                         eastern seaboard read reprinted articles from The Western
                              Sun, and Stout hoped that his newspaper would not only cast
                         suspicion on Harrison's enemies but also demonstrate that the governor
                         was still widely popular throughout the region. Stout owed his job to the
                         governor, but he also shared Harrison's political ideals and feared
                         that the "envious ambition" of the anti-Harrisonians might show
                         "its demoniack crest, and malignant falsehoods ... in Washington
                         city," much as they had "in the Borough of Vincennes." The
                         editor described Harrison's "declining popularity" as a
                         myth, claiming that those who supported the governor "constitute[d] a
                         majority of nine tenths of the Territory."33
                         Stout's claim ignored the fact that many residents of the territory
                         were seeking to expel Harrison from power. Hundreds of settlers from
                                   Knox, Clark,
                                   Randolph, St.
                              Clair, and Harrison
                         Counties had petitioned Congress to remove Harrison in favor of a governor
                         who was "in principal opposed to slavery."34
                         The division of the Illinois country from the territory had left
                         Vincennes
                         as the last vestige of Harrisonian policies, but as governor, Harrison
                         still exercised a great deal of influence in the territory, specifically in
                         Indian affairs.35
                    The anti-Harrisonians believed that replacing Harrison with an antislavery
                         advocate would likely stop the political intrigue and violence. To that
                         end, they attempted to delay the governor's reappointment. McNamee
                         wrote to Vice President George Clinton and listed Harrison's offenses:
                         he had promoted his friends' efforts to profit from land speculation;
                         he had supported slavery; and he had ignored the law restricting Indian
                         agents and superintendents of Indian affairs from trade-related activities
                         with the Indians, entering into "a mercantile partnership with the
                         contractors for furnishing Indian provisions" and profiting from it by
                         switching similar local goods for the higher-quality 
                              33The Western Sun,
                                   November 18, 1809.
                              34Carter, Territorial Papers of
                                        the United States, 7:703.
                              35The western portions of Indiana Territory,
                                   while more supportive of slavery, felt that they were not
                                   represented in the territorial government. Francis Philbrick
                                   states that the governor's "appointments to territorial
                                   offices were indeed made exclusively from his intimates of
                                   Knox
                                   County." Philbrick, Laws of Indiana
                                        Territory, lvi.
                         
                          goods supplied by the government.36 McNamee characterized Harrison as a man motivated
                         by profit, not by a desire to protect the citizens of the territory.
                         Although the anti-Harrisonians lacked proof to substantiate their claims,
                         they continued to brand the governor's Indian policy as corrupt.
                         Harrison was aware of McNamee's attempts to undermine him and his
                         supporters. In November 1809, he wrote to Gallatin—a letter that departed
                         from his typical professional and diplomatic tone. He attacked Badollet,
                         Ewing, McIntosh, and others, in fear that their letters and complaints had
                         helped to delay his reappointment, already several months late.37
                    Amidst the calls for Harrison's replacement, Randolph traveled to
                                   Washington,
                              D.C., to protest the election results.38 The territorial election committee had declared
                         unanimously that Governor Harrison lacked the authority to hold the
                         territorial election from which Jennings had emerged victorious. After
                         making his case, Randolph left the federal capitol confident that Congress
                         would overturn the election and give him the advantage over Jennings for
                         the next election; however, the House of Representatives refused to do
                              so.39 Jennings was astonished by the efforts of
                         his "great enemy the Govenor" to overturn the election, but
                         Randolph's protest made sense in the context of the changing political
                         atmosphere ushered in by the election of 1809.40 By
                         1810, Vincennes had almost divided into two
                         separate communities-one in favor of slavery and against the Indians and
                         the other rejecting slavery and urging common sense with the Indians.
                         Badollet felt that "as long as our Governor is really or is thought
                         friendly to the admission of Slavery, this Territory will know no peace
                         .... Our next Executive ought surely to come from either the State of
                         New
                              York or Pennsylvania, no more Virginians."41



                    
                         36McNamee to the President of the Senate,
                              December 12, 1809, in Carter, Territorial Papers of the
                                   United States, 7:682.
                         37Philbrick, Laws of Indiana
                                   Territory, xliii nl.
                         38Harrison to Christopher G. Champlin, November 21, 1809, William
                              Henry Harrison Papers, reel 3, p. 655.
                         39Jonathan Jennings to David G. Mitchell, January
                              16, 1810, in Dorothy Riker, ed., Unedited Letters of
                              Jonathan Jennings (Indianapolis,
                              Ind., 1932), 172-74.
                         40lbid., 174.
                         41Badollet to Gallatin, November 13, 1809, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                              Gallatin, 144.
                    


                    

                    
                         Albert Gallatin, from a sketch by Van Huffel c. 1815. Gallatin was a
                              leading Republican, a policymaker and diplomat, and served as
                              secretary of the treasury under both Thomas Jefferson and James
                              Madison. Because of his influence, he received correspondence from
                              Harrison as well as from his supporters and opponents.
                         Courtesy Prints and Photographs Collection, Library of Congress
                    




                    Political changes in the territory greatly curtailed the powers of the
                         governor while extending the franchise to more white men. By 1812,
                         according to Andrew Cayton, "a centralized, vertical system of
                         politics" had transformed "into a decentralized, local
                              system."42 Control of the territory now rested
                         more with its inhabitants than with the governor and the officials in
                                   Washington.
                         Cayton refers to these democratic openings as the "revolution of
                         1808-1810," which culminated in Harrison's wartime resignation in
                         1812. Although federal policymakers may have wanted to replace Harrison for
                         his politics, they could not ignore his success in actively aiding
                         territorial expansion and especially in making 
                              42Cayton, Frontier
                                   Indiana, 251.
                         
                          Jefferson's and Madison's
                         Indian policies successful.43 Madison reappointed
                         Harrison, despite the changing political climate, because the governor
                         still had many influential supporters in the region, including several
                         French traders who helped him maintain his influence with the various
                         nearby Indian communities.
                    By the spring of 1810, fears surrounding events at Prophetstown began to
                         trump the slavery debate in The Western Sun. That spring,
                         tales of western tribes—including the Sac, Fox, and Kickapoo—visiting
                         Prophetstown spread throughout the countryside, alarming countless
                              settlers.44 Harrison called Badollet to a meeting
                         and told him that the Prophet intended to attack Vincennes, kill the governor, and then
                         attack the other residents. The governor, Badollet later wrote,
                         "painted his fears in lively colours and said that if it was not for
                         fear of spreading too great an allarm, he would immediately send his family
                         to Kentucky and convert his house unto a
                         fort." Although Badollet respected the intelligence concerning the
                         Indians, he noticed that most of the men present at the meeting were
                         Harrison's supporters, and he "suspected a trap."45 It appeared to Badollet that Harrison had
                         manipulated his followers into asking him to order out the militia so that
                         his actions would not appear heavy-handed.
                    Many residents of Vincennes favored sending a diplomatic mission to
                         Prophetstown, but Harrison asserted his right as territorial governor to
                         control diplomacy. Hearing rumors of a Native militancy, Toussaint Dubois,
                         one of the French traders trusted by both Harrison and Badollet, offered to
                         visit Prophetstown and inquire about Tenskwatawa's intentions. Despite
                         the fact that several public officials supported Dubois, Harrison decided
                         to send his own speech to the Prophet. In an impromptu meeting, Badollet
                         discussed the situation with Ewing and Judge Johnson. They all believed
                         "that the alarm was unfounded," like the governor's previous
                         warnings, but they agreed to respect Harrison's authority on the
                         issue. Dubois said that he would go only "if the Governor would send
                         him" and Badollet accepted that answer.46 Shortly 
                              43Owens, Mr Jefferson's
                                        Hammer; Cayton, Frontier Indiana,
                                   244-52.
                              44Edmunds, Shawnee
                                   Prophet, 83.
                              45Ibid., 151; Badollet to Gallatin, June 24,
                                   1810, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 152-53.
                              46Nathaniel Ewing to Gallatin, June 26,
                                   1810, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 162.
                         
                          thereafter, however, Badollet learned
                         from Ewing that the governor had ordered Judge Johnson to meet him at the
                         secretary's office. In front of several witnesses, Harrison "in
                         an angry magisterial and insulting manner had called him to account"
                         for his involvement with Badollet's faction. He accused the men of
                         treason and demanded that they abide by his decisions. Ewing said Harrison
                         "exults in the idea that he will make us smart severely for our daring
                         perseverance in opposing his darling and never abandoned plan of
                              slavery."47 Harrison's opponents on the
                         issue of slavery had again provoked his anger, this time by questioning his
                         policies regarding Native Americans. The governor proceeded to use his
                         authority in Indian affairs to marginalize his political enemies. If the
                         majority of people believed that the Prophet was a militant threat, then
                         the governor could legally condemn those who opposed his policies.
                    In a letter to Gallatin, Ewing detailed the extent to which Harrison had
                         manipulated the Dubois affair. On the night of the meetings described
                         above, Ewing and Judge Johnson had been on their way to complete some
                         business at Colonel Francis Vigo's residence. They stopped at
                         Badollet's office for a few minutes, where the judge noticed McIntosh,
                         Antoine Marechal, P. Rieue, John Caldwell, Elias McNamee, John Johnson (the
                         judge's son), and a few others, all of whom had opposed slavery or the
                         governor's policies. Judge Johnson, in his own version of the events,
                         stated: "The conversation turned on the common report of the Indians
                         being hostile it appeared to be the general opinion of those present that
                         there was no truth in the report which coincided with my own."48 Johnson insisted that no ulterior motive lay behind
                         the meeting and that all of the men present recognized and respected
                         Harrison's authority in the matter.49 Yet the
                         Harrisonians, Badollet protested, still spoke of "a treasonable meeting, the object of which was to bring the
                         indians on" Vincennes.50 The governor's 
                              47Badollet to Gallatin, June 24, 1810, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 156- 57.
                              48John Johnson to Gallatin, June 26, 1810,
                                        Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 165.
                              49Ibid. Johnson heard the discussion over
                                   Dubois and suggested that, "it would be well in doing this
                                   not to infring on the prorogative of the Governor as he had the
                                   exclusive superintendance of Indian afairs. McIntosh and some
                                   others present said they did not intend to interfer with the
                                   proceedings of the Governor in any respect whatever."
                              50Badollet to Gallatin, September 25, 1810,
                                        Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 169.
                         
                          supporters condemned the participants
                         as conspirators and then spread rumors "that numbers of us [those at
                         the meeting] had a close correspondence with the Prophet and had agreed
                         with him upon signals designating those who were to be sacrificed &
                         those who were to be spared."51 In order to
                         intensify the charges and to marginalize opposition leaders, Harrison
                         convened a grand jury of twelve men to consider whether the secret meeting
                         had constituted treason. Three of the "conspirators," including
                         Dubois (whom Harrison had referred to as "one of the most respectable
                         Indian traders in this country"), were grilled about the meeting and
                         the intentions of the anti-Harrisonians.52 The jury did
                         not agree on an indictment, and thus, according to Badollet,
                         Harrison's "diabolical plan" was "at last
                              disappointed."53 The Harrisonians, he noted,
                         continued to maintain that "certain individuals in calling public and
                         private meetings for the purpose of adopting measures relating to the
                         present crisis, have been dictated rather by personal enmity to the
                         Governor, than motives of public benefit."54 The
                         governor's opponents were well within their rights to question
                         Harrison's policies toward the Indians of Prophetstown; even if the
                         caucus had gone too far, their actions in no way had earned accusations of
                         treason.
                    After witnessing the governor's tirade, Ewing found himself increasingly
                         fearful of the Harrisonians, even writing Gallatin for "protection
                         against the persecutions of Governor Harrison." Ewing also worried
                         that Harrison had done little to protect the town if indeed the Indians
                         attacked. Although the governor "raised a dreadful alarm of Indians
                         [and] drafted two companies of militia," he stationed them at the
                         upper end of the town of Vincennes near Grouseland, prompting Ewing to
                         wonder if Harrison's real intent was to protect his own home. Ewing
                         was also suspicious of Harrison's policies toward Tenskwatawa because,
                         as he wrote to Gallatin, the Prophet and his people appeared 
                              51Ibid., 170.
                              52Ibid.; William Henry Harrison to Secretary
                                   of War William Eustis, April 18, 1809, William Henry Harrison
                                   Papers, reel 3, p. 392.
                              53Badollet to Gallatin, September 25, 1810,
                                        Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 170.
                              54Correspondence of John
                                        Badollet and Albert Gallatin, 156 n10, quoting The Western Sun, June 30, 1810.
                         
                          "peaceble" and treated
                         non-natives "well."55 Ewing respected the
                         Prophet's effort to cultivate corn, raise cattle, and build fences,
                         concluding that any disturbances were the result of conflicting religious
                         ideology. The Prophet and his people had no "intention to meddle with
                         the whites"; it was Harrison who intended "to make war on
                              them."56 Ewing saw a vengeful governor and a
                         town increasingly fearful of an attack, and he believed that he had few
                         options left but to complain to federal authorities.
                    While many frontier settlers feared the militancy of the Prophet, Tecumseh,
                         and Indians throughout the region, the anti-Harrisonians believed that the
                         inhabitants of Prophetstown were not a threat to Vincennes. Badollet
                         considered that the Prophet "had effected more toward civilizing them
                         & thereby seconding the benevolent and philanthropic views of the
                         General Government than all the indian agents that have been or may be sent
                         amongst them."57 Harrison, on the other hand,
                         could not comprehend why some Americans were helping the Indians, a people
                         he considered inherently predisposed to war. "The mind of a
                         Savage," Harrison argued, was "so constructed that he cannot be
                         at rest,—he cannot be happy unless it is acted upon by Some strong stimulus
                         ... if he hunts in the winter he must go to war in the Summer."58 By 1811, Stout saw a more malicious international
                         influence at play. He suspected a "deep laid scheme of villainy"
                         connected to the British rather than simply rogue Americans trying to hurt
                         the governor.59
                    Having weakened several powerful Indian groups through a series of treaties
                         and diplomatic measures, the governor grew irate at settlers who challenged
                         his authority in a region still suffering from periodic Indian attacks.
                         Harrison viewed the implementation of his policies as a personal
                         referendum. He interpreted opposition as a threat to his governorship,
                         rather than simply a reflection of the democratic political 
                              55Ewing to Gallatin, June 26, 1810, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 159, 161-62.
                              56Ibid., 163. Ewing recognized that peace in
                                   the region north of Vincennes would be profitable for a man who
                                   at times traded with the local Indians. George E. Greene, History of Old Vincennes and Knox County,
                                        Indiana (Chicago, 1911), 323.
                              57Badollet to Gallatin, September 25, 1810,
                                        Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 167.
                              58Harrison to Eustis, August 28, 1810,
                                   William Henry Harrison Papers, reel 4, p. 180.
                              59"Negotiations at an Indian
                                   Council," The Western Sun, August 10, 17,
                                   1811.
                         
                          process. When confronted, he usually
                         tried to isolate and attack his enemies rather than to negotiate. This
                         attitude was evident in his response to the territorial assembly's
                         1810 repeal of an 1805 act that had allowed slaves to be indentured when
                         brought into the territory. Badollet wrote to Jennings "with a
                         heartfelt pleasure" to tell him that "the law about slavery has
                         at length been repealed."60 Victory for Badollet,
                         however, produced a concomitant reaction from Harrison—a speech to the
                         assembly suggesting that those who had spread "falsehoods amongst the
                         Indians" be punished because they had undermined the foundations of
                         government and a peaceful society.61 Unconvinced, John
                         Caldwell challenged the governor, asking him to "lay before the house
                         such documents as were in his possession, proving the existence of a
                         treasonable correspondence between persons of this place and the indians,
                         & to name such persons."62 According to
                         Badollet, Harrison responded first with confusion, then retraction, and
                         finally by restating his previous conclusions. He offered no proof and
                         actually "gave in writing an errata or correction of his
                         message," retracting his statement that Vincennes residents had
                         associated with the Prophet.63 However, he remained on
                         the offensive, suggesting that the legislature pass a law against
                         traitorous activity and warning "that much mischief has been done by
                         others, who, actuated by no views that were inimical to their country, have
                         suffered their passions, prejudices, and personal animosities to lead them
                         astray, and to do that which their cooler judgments must condemn. Whilst a
                         penal law would perhaps deter the former," he continued, "it
                         would be the means, as an expression of the public sentiment, of reclaiming
                         the latter to their duty." Harrison hoped, in short, to use the
                         proposed law to silence those whom he suspected of undermining his
                              authority.64 Subsequently, he also withdrew his
                         recommendation of Caldwell as a deputy surveyor.65





                    
                         60Philbrick, Laws of Indiana
                                   Territory, 136-38; Badollet to Jonathan Jennings, December
                              25, 1810, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                   Gallatin, 175.
                         61"Message of the Governor," November
                              12, 1810, Thornbrough and Riker, Journals of the General
                                   Assembly of Indiana Territory, 352-55.
                         62Badollet to Jennings, December 25, 1810, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                              Gallatin, 176.
                         63Badollet to Gallatin, August 6, 1811, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                              Gallatin, 190.
                         64Thornbrough and Riker, Journals of
                                   the General Assembly of Indiana Territory, 355.
                         65Harrison to Jared Mansfield, March 6, 1811,
                              William Henry Harrison Papers, reel 4, p. 408.
                    


                    
                    Harrison's public theatrics, at least for the short term, exerted
                         greater influence on territorial policy than did the
                         anti-Harrisonians' voluminous letters to Washington, D.C. Harrison used the
                         occasion of Tecumseh's visit to Vincennes during the summer of 1811 as an
                         opportunity to draw a strict racial line between European Americans and the
                         Indians. Harrison had already portrayed the Indians as bloodthirsty savages
                         searching for a reason to murder the residents of Vincennes. Now the governor recognized
                         that such a visit provided an excellent political opportunity as well.
                         According to Badollet, as Tecumseh approached Vincennes, Harrison, "clad in a
                         hunting shirt, and addressing [the militia] by the familiar name of fellow
                         soldiers, drew an animated picture of the meditated blood shed with such
                         success, that it was with difficulty, that they could be refrained from
                         running to Tecumseh's camp" and slaughtering the inhabitants.66 Harrison ordered the townsmen to greet the
                         delegation of Native Americans clad in hunting shirts and holding their
                              weapons.67 He reminded the militia that there were
                         people in Vincennes who were
                         "friends" to Tecumseh, doing his best to direct white
                         residents' fears of an Indian attack to the Americans who were
                         supposedly aiding the Indians.68
                    Not everyone allowed Harrison's racial rhetoric to sway their
                         perceptions of the Prophet. Badollet had seen the governor's tactics
                         before: This is the third year that rumours of
                              indian war have been issued forth from head quarters here and the
                              parades of the militia have taken place in consequence thereof. It
                              appears plain to me that the first alarm and the mock precautions
                              resorted to, were intended to pave the way to the treaty, the second
                              to stifle
                         
                              66Badollet to Gallatin, August 6, 1811, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 182- 92, quote p. 187.
                              67Harrison to Eustis, August 13, 1811,
                                   William Henry Harrison Papers, reel 4, pp. 713-14. Harrison
                                   wrote: "Heedless of futurity, it is only by placing the
                                   danger before his eyes, that a Savage is to be control'd.
                                   Even the gallant Tecumseh is not insensible to an argument of
                                   this kind. No courtier could be more complaisant, than he was
                                   upon his late visit. To have heared him one would have supposed,
                                   that he came here for the purpose of complimenting me. This
                                   wonderful Metamorphosis in manner, was entirely produced by the
                                   gleaming & clanging of Arms, & by the frowns of a
                                   considerable body of hunting Shirt men, which accidentally lined
                                   a road, by which he approached to the council House."
                              68Badollet to Gallatin, August 6, 1811, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 183- 84.
                         
                         
                         the discontents of the Indians arising therefrom.
                              This present apparent panic has the same object and to induce a belief
                              at Washington that the Prophet is a
                              chief of banditti, a very designing and dangerous man from whom the
                                        United States and especially this
                              place have every thing to dread.69
                         McIntosh accused Harrison of "defrauding the Indians in the
                         Treaties" that he had made with them, "making chiefs to answer
                         [his] own particular purposes" by excluding those Native leaders who
                         might oppose him.70 In his correspondence, Badollet
                         continued to portray the Prophet as a peaceful man who had settled along
                         the Wabash in an
                         effort to aid his people. They had "cleared, fenced in and planted in
                         corn," constructed homes, refrained from alcohol, "[gone]
                         regularly to work every morning," and most importantly, they
                         "appear[ed] to be governed by regular kind of institutions, &
                         rise, go to their meals, and to their rest at stated hours with as much
                         regularity as monks, they seem[ed] to taste the comforts of civilized
                         life." For Badollet, Prophetstown represented the realization of the
                         civilizing ideal behind Jeffersonian philanthropy. He spoke of a
                         "perfect peace" in the area and of people passing Prophetstown
                         daily, "not only undisturbed but well treated."71
                    Despite his success in marginalizing his enemies in Vincennes, Harrison feared that the
                         anti-Harrisonians might have enough influence in Washington, D.C., to succeed in
                         replacing him as governor. He wrote to Secretary of War William Eustis and
                         asked him to disregard any charges that his actions toward the Prophet had
                         been "premature and unfounded." Harrison reminded Eustis that the
                         president was "too just to censure an officer for an unintentional
                         error or to lend a favourable ear to the calamnies" produced by the
                         governor's enemies.72 The governor also sought the
                         support of the religious men of Vincennes to legitimize those of his
                         policies that had come under attack. He had 
                              69Ibid. Badollet's letters are often
                                   very colloquial, as, in this instance, he refers to Harrison et
                                   al. as "head quarters."
                              70Harrison to Eustis, April 23, 1811, in
                                   Logan Esarey, ed., Messages and Letters of William
                                   Henry Harrison, vol. 1, 1800-1811
                                   (Indianapolis,
                                   Ind.,
                                   1922), 509.
                              71Badollet to Gallatin, August 6, 1811, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 184- 86.
                              72Harrison to Eustis, July 10, 1811, Papers
                                   of William Henry Harrison, reel 4, p. 630.
                         
                          succeeded at intimidating Tecumseh,
                         but had failed to silence the anti-Harrisonians, a fact that fueled his
                         fear that Madison might "censure" him.73 With
                         Harrison's support, Presbyterian Rev. Samuel T. Scott and Baptist
                         minister Alexander Devin formed a committee to draft a letter advocating an
                         attack on Prophetstown. Three members of the group were ministers or were
                         associated with missionary work, and Francis Vigo had acquired great
                         standing in the town after aiding George Rogers Clark in his campaign
                         against the British. Vigo and Luke Decker (a slave trader) were both
                         adamantly proslavery; Scott and Devin, accompanied by McClure, may have
                         hoped to court Harrison's favor in order to access federal funds for
                         their missionary work.74 Most of these men had a stake
                         in seeing Harrison and his policies succeed. The committee's completed
                         letter to President Madison claimed that the governor's measures
                         against the Prophet had stopped the "destruction of this place, and
                         the massacre of the inhabitants."75 The
                         anti-Harrisonians viewed the committee as "too ignorant to be
                         consulted on public measures" because the men had not played any role
                         in policy decisions or diplomatic negotiations. Badollet described it as
                         "one of the trics of our immaculate Governor," whom he accused of
                         using the committee members like puppets.76
                    Having spent several years negotiating treaties with Indian tribes in the
                         territory, Harrison recognized the extent to which his policies had upset
                         and in some cases polarized relationships between Indians and settlers. He
                         was worried especially by Tecumseh's trip to the southern states in an
                         effort to win support for the Prophet's efforts at Prophetstown.
                         Believing that Prophetstown was the logical result of this growing
                         polarization and that it represented an immediate threat to the region, the
                         governor moved to destroy the nativist settlement. However, he encountered
                         problems mobilizing an effective fighting force. By late October 1811, his
                         troops numbered less than 800 men—Indiana 
                              73Earlier that year, Jennings had written:
                                   "The governor is very unpopular here and daily becomes more
                                   unpopular—I have received depositions and certificates with
                                   charges against Harrison and have shwen [sic]
                                   them to several members of Congress and they all tell I am bound
                                   to give them their usual cause and declare he ought to be out of
                                   office—His political career is ended. I shall lay the
                                   groundwork of an impeachment before ten days. The above is
                                   confidence until I see you." Jennings to unnamed, January
                                   22, 1811, in Riker, Unedited Letters of Jonathan
                                        Jennings.
                              74Owens, Mr Jefferson's
                                        Hammer, 133.
                              75The Western Sun, August
                                   3, 1811.
                              76Badollet to Gallatin, August 6, 1811, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 189.
                         
                          militiamen, Kentucky volunteers, and
                         army regulars-just over half of his force he had upon leaving Vincennes.
                         Harrison attributed this problem to his personal enemies, who had
                         "united with the British agents in representing that the expedition
                         was entirely useless & the Prophet as one of best & Most pacific of
                              Mortals."77
                    In late September 1811, Harrison marched a force of 1,300 regulars and
                         militia eighty miles north of Vincennes (near present-day
                         Terre Haute) to
                         construct Fort Harrison, built as a staging area and a point for
                         Harrison's men to prepare, if need be, for an assault on Prophetstown.
                         While laying the foundation for the fort, the regulars and militia argued
                         "to such a pitch that both parties were ready to fall on each other
                         but by the interference of the officers" whose efforts stymied
                         "their mutinous conduct."78 A full-scale
                         fight had nearly erupted within the ranks of Harrison's army, which
                         likely convinced many militiamen to go back to their farms.79 Rather than admit his failure to unite the militia, Harrison
                         blamed the intra-community factionalism in the territorial capitol.
                    Many Vincennes residents believed that
                         Harrison's march toward Prophetstown during the fall of 1811 had been
                         made necessary in part by his failed policies. In their view, the best
                         option left to the governor was to destroy the Indian town at
                         Tippecanoe
                         with minimal casualties and to hope that the corresponding accolades would
                         reinvigorate his leadership. Badollet and other anti-Harrisonians continued
                         to doubt claims that the Prophet and his brother planned a massive attack,
                         and they questioned the intelligence behind an article in the National
                         Intelligencer reporting Tecumseh's plan to sack Vincennes.80 Badollet lamented: "All I fear is that such a
                         madman [Harrison] will goad the Indians into some act of despair to make
                         good all what he has got published of their pretended views. Oh God! Oh
                              God!"81





                    
                         77Harrison to [Governor] Charles Scott, December
                              13, 1811, William Henry Harrison Papers, reel 5, pp. 146-47.
                         78Henry Swearingen letter, October 7, 1811, OM
                              0066, Indiana Historical Society, Indianapolis.
                         79Historians have not discussed the problems
                              within Harrison's force or adequately explained why such large
                              numbers of soldiers defected.
                         80National Intelligencer, September 17, 1811;
                              Badollet to Gallatin, October 15, 1811, Correspondence of
                                   John Badollet and Albert Gallatin, 195.
                         81Badollet to Gallatin, October 15, 1811, Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                              Gallatin, 195.
                    


                    

                    Badollet was able to use his son Albert, a member of the militia, to spy on
                         their activities. Albert wrote his father a few times during the march
                         toward Prophetstown, expressing his own anxieties about the mission.
                         Reminding him that he was serving "involuntarily" and that he
                         possessed pure morals and "conduct unlike that of many of [his]
                         age," John asked his son to keep a journal. "I beseech you to do
                         it," he wrote, because "it will be an useful exercise for you,
                         and will afford me a great satisfaction in reading your unsophisticated
                         reflections on the passing events."82 More
                         importantly, the elder Badollet requested that Albert "note down every occurrence as they take place, such an exercise
                         [would] have the advantage of making time hang less heavily upon
                              [him]."83 Given his actions during the
                         previous months, Badollet's insis- tence on his son's journaling
                         may have been part of a larger effort in his campaign to undermine the
                         governor.
                    Badollet and his supporters saw their fears realized in the attack on
                         Prophetstown and in the aftermath of the Battle of Tippecanoe. The battle
                         of November 1811 was only a minor disruption in a region divided by
                         discord. What appeared to be solely a racial struggle was in fact a far
                         more complicated event built upon factional relationships. As
                         Harrison's force marched back to Vincennes with nearly 130 wounded, they
                         feared an attack from the many Indians who roamed the area. Soldiers had
                         burned Prophetstown to the ground, but they had also desecrated an Indian
                         burial ground, possibly inciting many neutral Indians. They returned to
                                   Vincennes minus
                         sixty-two soldiers who had died on the field of battle. The death count
                         included Thomas Randolph. It was ironic that the violence at
                         Tippecanoe
                         had resulted in the death of Randolph, who had been Jennings's main
                         challenger for territorial representative to Congress. Many
                         anti-Harrisonians believed that the governor's rhetoric about
                         Prophetstown had been the result of his frustration in not getting Randolph
                         elected, so that, in a way, Harrison's decisions had led to the death
                         of his ally.
                    As Harrison's men marched into Vincennes, they were not greeted by
                         victorious fanfare or congratulatory cheers. Most of the soldiers 
                         wondered if they had just ignited a frontier war, while others questioned the
                              
                              82John Badollet to Albert Badollet, October
                                   18, 1811, John Badollet Papers, Regional History Collection #6,
                                   Lewis Historical Library, Vincennes University,
                                   Vincennes,
                                   Indiana.
                              83Ibid., italics added by author for
                                   emphasis.
                         
                          need to attack Prophetstown in the
                         first place. The experienced soldiers feared that more of their neighbors
                         would die when the Indians counter-attacked, but such an attack never came.
                         Many of the neutral Miami had fled the area around Prophetstown, while
                         Indians from other tribes withdrew after watching their harvest and homes
                         go up in flames. The Prophet had not organized the first attack, nor did he
                         want to put his community at further risk with another.84
                    While the residents of Vincennes initially came
                         together to mourn their dead, they spent the months following the battle
                         confronting each other. There was a funeral every day, sometimes two, as
                         injured soldiers died from their wounds. Each day reminded the residents
                         that they had paid a heavier price than the Indians, even though the
                         Americans had burned Prophetstown to the ground. Coffin processions were
                         "followed by a soldier ... marching to the tune of Roslein Castle beat
                         upon muffled drums."85 As the shock of the battle
                         passed, people began questioning the governor's leadership during the
                         late action, and some even wondered if their loved ones had died in vain.
                         Rumors spread throughout the territory that the militia had tried to
                         retreat during battle because of Harrison's ineffective leadership.
                         Almost two months later, reports surfaced that the Indians were resettling
                         Prophetstown. Residents of Vincennes, eyeing the many fresh graves,
                         wondered just who had benefited from the battle.
                    Within weeks, the factions began using the battle as a way to attack each
                         other. They had a well-established tradition of using territorial affairs
                         against each other, and the Battle of Tippecanoe proved no exception.
                         Badollet wrote that the "little band of the Prophet and his brother,
                         were not a banditti" but "a set of orderly sober and industrious
                         men ... whom we have driven to despair, in spite of their repeated cries
                         for peace."86 Rumors circulated through town that
                         one of the sentinels who had heard the first shots had actually shot
                         himself by accident or been shot by one of his fellow soldiers. Some people
                         now believed that the 
                              84Alfred A. Cave, "The Shawnee Prophet,
                                   Tecumseh, and Tippecanoe: A Case Study of Historical Myth
                                   Making," Journal of the Early Republic 22
                                   (Winter 2002), 653-54.
                              85Lydia B. Bacon, entry for November 30,
                                   1811, Journal, May 9, 1811-August 19, 1812, New York Historical
                                   Society Manuscript Collection, New York.
                              86Badollet to Gallatin, December 30, 1811,
                                        Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert
                                        Gallatin, 220. The quote is from a letter written to
                                   Col. John Boyd, a copy of which Badollet enclosed in his letter
                                   to Gallatin.
                         
                          battle had started due to incompetence
                         and not because the soldiers had tried to protect themselves.
                    The anti-Harrisonians used the rumors to disparage Harrison and went as far
                         as claiming that Harrison had panicked during the battle and was
                         responsible for the death of several soldiers. Several members of the
                         faction created a resolution which praised Col. John P. Boyd, who had
                         served as second-in-command at Tippecanoe. The document neglected to
                         mention Harrison's leadership of the militia forces. Several of
                         Boyd's supporters, including Judge Johnson, Caldwell, Ewing, and
                         Badollet, met in secret and issued a public statement extolling the conduct
                         of the regular army, while failing to offer any comment about the local
                         militia. The Harrisonians took offense at what they regarded as blatant
                         libel. Parke and several militiamen, gathered at Parmenas Beckes's inn
                         in Vincennes on December 7, 1811, adopted
                         resolutions that rejected the public appraisals of Boyd.87 They "resolved unanimously" that the address put
                         forth by the anti-Harrisonians was done to "injure the character of
                         Governor Harrison."88 Parke's group condemned
                              the conduct of said individuals (almost every one of whom are the avowed enemies of the Commander
                                   in Chief—and several of whom have uniformly discountenanced and
                                   opposed every measure of the government, in respect to the
                                   Shawanoe Prophet and his party, and none of whom were on the
                                   Campaign) in daring to speak in the name of the Militia, as
                              highly presumptuous and unwarrantable.89


                     As if to stoke the fire, and probably to sell more papers, Stout published
                         these resolutions in his January 4, 1812, edition of The
                              Western Sun. It quickly engulfed the town in yet another dispute.
                         For the Harrisonians, the attack on their governor was personal. In their
                         view, 
                              87Robert S. Lambert, "The Conduct of
                                   the Militia at Tippecanoe: Elihu Stout's Controversy with
                                   Colonel John P Boyd, January, 1812," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History 51 (September 1955), 239-41.
                              88Resolutions adopted at a meeting of the
                                   Knox County Militia, William Henry Harrison Papers, December 7,
                                   1811, reel 5, p. 159. This document is one of two enclosures in a
                                   Dec. 18 letter from Harrison to Gov. Scott. Italics
                                   original.
                              89Ibid., 160.
                         
                          American settlers had incited the
                         Indians in an effort to end Harrison's governorship; now the regular
                         army had assaulted the governor. Harrison responded by trying to control
                         people's perceptions of the battle.
                    As the governor and his supporters worked to rally public opinion, John
                         Johnston, the Fort Wayne Indian agent, concluded that Native forces at
                         Prophetstown had been far fewer in number than Harrison's command.
                         Such a low estimate looked very bad, considering the much higher number of
                         Americans who had died. The imbalance demonstrated to the governor's
                         enemies that Harrison was indeed poorly equipped to lead a militia force
                         against the Indians and reinforced calls for his resignation. The governor
                         claimed that "it is impossible to believe that there were less than
                         seven hundred Indians in the late action," an estimate that would have
                         made the American and Indian forces relatively equal. He questioned
                         Johnston's "false" report and concluded that the
                         agent's estimate reflected what the Indians had told him, which
                         Harrison believed to be unreliable. Harrison even claimed that Johnston had
                         failed at his duty: "Sixteen days after the action he was replenishing
                         the powder horns and pouches of many of those Indians whom he knew" to
                         have participated at Prophetstown.90 Johnston was not
                         the only person questioning the governor's efforts at the battle.
                         Residents of Vincennes were mailing
                         out information to national newspapers, including Pennsylvania's The Reporter, which claimed that Harrison was to blame
                         for the death of Maj. Joseph Hamilton Daviess. After hearing that the New York Commercial Advertiser published a derogatory
                         letter sent by a resident of Vincennes to Congress, Harrison told Stout
                         that he would "give a reward of ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS for the names of
                         the Writer, and the person to whom it was addressed."91 Angered by the attacks on the governor, several Harrisonians
                         signed their own letter, expressing their opinion "that the Governor
                         was calm and deliberate—that his orders were precise and distinct"
                         during the battle and that "victory was obtained by his vigilance and
                              activity."92 The debates raging in
                         Vincennes,
                         although framed around the meaning of Tippecanoe, fell 
                              90Harrison to Eustis, January 14, 1812,
                                   William Henry Harrison Papers, reel 5, p. 273.
                              91Harrison to Stout, February 12, 1812,
                                   William Henry Harrison Papers, reel 5, p. 359.
                              92Statement by Officers, November 19, 1811,
                                   in Esarey, Messages and Letters of William Henry
                                        Harrison, 1:634.
                         
                          across the same factional lines that
                         had crystallized during the debate over slavery.
                    Similarly, some residents of Vincennes continued to invoke the Prophet as a
                         means to express their feelings by publishing editorials concerning the
                         battle in Stout's newspaper. Convinced that he must defend Harrison,
                         Stout continued the fracas with an editorial of his own. After learning
                         that Colonel Boyd planned to travel east on a furlough (an undeserved trip
                         in Stout's eyes), Stout published an article that mocked Boyd's
                         leadership and commitment. The article closed with a highly inflammatory
                         and sarcastic paragraph: We cannot withhold from
                              the Colonel our sense of his merit and the great
                              loss our country will sustain by being deprived of his services. Should there be a second expedition against
                              the Indians, the Man, who by his personal skill and bravery decided
                              the action of the 7th November, and took with his own hands the war club of their great warrior, the magic cup of the Prophet, and the scalp
                              of a Chief, together with a number of other acts of bravery not
                              necessary here to mention, but which will forever immortalize the
                                   Hero.93


                    Incensed at the articles and demanding vengeance, Boyd's party (which
                         consisted of several anti-Harrisonians) insisted that Stout reveal the
                         author of the article. When Stout refused, Boyd marched into his office
                         demanding to know the author's identity. Stout, with self-proclaimed
                         "mildness and a smile" answered: "You may consider me as the
                              author!"94 Boyd swung at Stout with his cane,
                         but the nimble printer grabbed Boyd and his stick and then beat him in
                         self-defense. Boyd's orderly, Josiah Bacon, seized Stout and tried to
                         restrain him, but militia Lt. Robert Buntin yanked Bacon away from the
                         printer and hurled him to the office floor.95 Boyd
                         retreated, leaving Stout to gloat in victory in that week's newspaper
                         in an article headlined "ANOTHER BATTLE on the
                              Wabash, or
                              Colonel JOHN P. BOYD'S DEFEAT!!" 
                              93The Western Sun, January
                                   18, 1812.
                              94Lambert, "Conduct of the Militia at
                                   Tippecanoe," 243-44.
                              95Ibid., 244.
                         
                         
                         Does not, or is not every one ready to cry out
                              shame! that such an experienced officer who has so
                              highly boasted of his superior skill and abilities, should be thus ingloriously defeated, by
                              a man who had never seen a "tented field?"
                              Can such a man be trusted with the defense of our common country? Has
                              he talents adequate to a corporals command? The Printer pronounces
                              he has not!!96


                    Even after the governor and the army defeated the Prophet at
                                   Tippecanoe, Tenskwatawa
                         retained a symbolic influence in the town. As a tool for the factions in
                                   Vincennes, he became
                         central to their political identities. The people of Vincennes endured years of palpable
                         fear that the Indians at Prophetstown would strike. Few could have imagined
                         that the only substantive attack in Vincennes would be initiated by one American
                         upon another. Understood in context, the violence at Stout's office
                         makes sense. Its underlying causes stemmed less from Prophetstown and more
                         from disputes surrounding Vincennes's role in and symbolic value
                         to the future of a republican nation. Would slavery be tolerated? Would
                         territories be governed by an autocratic governor and his council, or by
                         the larger white community? These were questions central to the political
                         and economic life at Vincennes during the
                         early 1800s, and while territorial residents rightly questioned and even
                         feared Prophetstown, their understanding of the Prophet devolved within the
                         polarized political atmosphere of the town. While fear of an Indian attack
                         was certainly real, fear over the decline of the republican ideal was just
                         as present. Both fears co-existed at Vincennes and shaped how territorial
                         residents in Indiana discussed and
                         understood the Indians at Prophetstown. As a result, Prophetstown came to
                         symbolize the debate over slavery and questions over Harrison's
                         governance—issues that the Battle of Tippecanoe failed to settle.
                    The debate in Vincennes was local in
                         substance, but also added to larger racial developments in the
                                   United
                                   States during the early republic. Fearful
                         of an Indian war in the Ohio Valley and a rapidly expanding slave
                         population in the South, Americans increasingly attributed the problems
                         between themselves, Indians, and slaves to inherent 
                              96The Western Sun, January
                                   25, 1812.
                         
                          differences among racial groups.97 The motivation for violence between whites and
                         Indians in Indiana Territory was racial in part, but the actions of
                                   Vincennes's
                         political factions further polarized regional relationships to such an
                         extent that room for any diplomatic measures quickly dissipated by 1810. As
                         a result, violence erupted at the Battle of Tippecanoe and with it came
                         strained and bloody relationships between white settlers and Native
                         Americans on the frontier. At a time when racial theory was gaining greater
                         acceptance, Americans were more likely to see that violence as a product of
                         their encounters with inherently inferior and violent American Indians,
                         rather than to recognize the complicated political factionalism that had
                         led to war in Indiana Territory.

                    
                         97Michael A. Morrison, Race and the
                                   Early Republic: Racial Consciousness and Nation-Building in the
                                   Early Republic (Baltimore,
                              Md., 2002); Bruce Dain, A Hideous Monster of the Mind: American Race Theory in
                                   the Early Republic (Cambridge,
                              Mass., 2003); Nancy
                              Shoemaker, A Strange Likeness: Becoming Red and White in
                              Eighteenth-Century North America (Oxford, UK, 2006).
                    
               

               
               
                    From Dickens to Sampson

                    An Examination of NCAA Rules Violations at Indiana University

                    DAVID PIERCE AND GALEN CLAVIO






                    Since the formalization of the National Collegiate Athletic
                         Association's enforcement powers in the early 1950s, Indiana
                         University has shown a general history of compliance with that
                         organization's rules. However, two discrete periods—the Phil Dickens
                         football era in the late 1950s and the Kelvin Sampson basketball era of
                         2006-2008—stand as reminders of the potential consequences of a lack of
                         institutional control over the university's athletic department. The
                         NCAA investigation of IU's "Sampson Era" resulted in
                         citations for five major infractions, leading to NCAA-imposed penalties,
                         significant personnel changes in the athletic department, and the loss of
                         nearly every player from the previous year's team.
                    While the recruiting violations may have shocked many IU basketball fans, the
                         sanctions against the program served as an unfortunate reminder of an
                         earlier time in Hoosier athletic history when recruiting violations in
                         football had wreaked havoc on all of the school's athletic teams. Both
                         sets of violations were products of their eras, and while the 
                              David Pierce is an assistant professor of sport administration
                                   at Ball State University, Muncie, Indiana, and the program
                                   coordinator of the undergraduate sport administration program at
                                   Ball State. Galen Clavio is an assistant professor of sport
                                   management at Indiana University, Bloomington, and serves as
                                   editor-in-chief of the Indiana University Sport Communication
                                   website, http://www.iusportcom.com.
                         
                          school's culpability in each case
                         is clear, the NCAA's punishment was disproportionate to the
                         accompanying crimes. This article focuses on the football recruiting
                         scandal of the late 1950s and its impact on the athletic department between
                         1957 and 1964. It then concludes by examining the Sampson-era violations
                         and comparing the impact of the two scandals upon collegiate athletics at
                              IU.1

                    The 1950s saw rapid change and growth in the organizational structure of
                         intercollegiate athletics. The NCAA's Sanity Code, implemented in
                         1948, set strict standards for adhering to amateurism, academic standards,
                         and recruiting. The most controversial and divisive of the new regulations
                         prohibited athletes from receiving financial aid on the basis of their
                         athletic ability. Scholarships could be given only on the basis of need and
                         could not exceed tuition costs. Athletes could also be paid for working
                         jobs. The code included an enforcement mechanism, but the only punishment
                         that could be rendered was expulsion from the NCAA.2
                    Southern schools refused to comply with the new regulations. In the East and
                         the Midwest, where jobs were readily available, the requirement that
                         athletes be paid through work was successful. But with fewer employment
                         opportunities available in southern states, colleges in that region viewed
                         the code as an attempt by powerful northern schools to decrease their power
                         and to control college athletics.3 The Sanity Code was
                         short-lived. In 1950, seven schools were brought before the NCAA convention
                         for noncompliance. The membership did not produce the required two-thirds
                         majority vote to expel the schools, effectively rendering the code
                              useless.4
                    The failure of the Sanity Code and the rise of booster organizations working
                         closely with athletic departments to subsidize athletes created the need to
                         develop a financial aid system without implementing an 
                              1John Watterson, College
                              Football: History, Spectacle, Controversy
                                   (Baltimore,
                                   Md., 2000), 211.
                              2John Falla, NCAA, the Voice of
                                        College Sports: A Diamond Anniversary History,
                                        1906-1981 (Mission,
                                   Kan., 1981), 132; Robert N. Stern,
                                   "The Development of an Interorganizational Control Network:
                                   The Case of Intercollegiate Athletics," Administrative Science Quarterly 24 (June 1979), 261;
                                   Watterson, College Football, 209-10.
                              3Watterson, College
                                        Football, 213.
                              4Falla, Voice of College
                                        Sports, 134; Watterson, College
                                        Football, 218.
                         
                          outright pay-for-play system.5 In 1956, a major scandal in the Pacific Coast
                         Conference (PCC) involving slush funds at the University of Washington,
                         UCLA, USC, and the University of California not only led to the dissolution
                         of that conference, but also demonstrated the need for establishing
                         standardized rules for recruiting student-athletes and distributing
                              grants-in-aid.6 The NCAA levied significant
                         penalties against each institution, including an all-sports postseason ban
                         against three of the four PCC institutions. After the scandal was revealed
                         in 1956, the NCAA subsequently implemented full-ride scholarships for
                         student-athletes. Not only did the PCC scandal provide the impetus to
                         standardize financial aid policies, but it also showed the ability of the
                         NCAA to overcome regional politics and harshly penalize institutions in
                         violation of the rules.7
                    Aiding the NCAA in its efforts was the organization's success in
                         negotiating football telecasts and controlling postseason competition.
                         Possessing the ability to withhold television revenue and to prevent teams
                         or entire athletic departments from competing in NCAA championships, the
                         association, with an expanded staff, created a more effective enforcement
                              mechanism.8
                    The NCAA now faced the task of determining how to institute a fair system of
                         financial aid for athletes. In 1956, in the aftermath of the PCC slush fund
                         scandal, the association implemented full-ride athletic scholarships, which
                         allowed schools to pay for tuition, fees, and room and board, and provided
                         $15 per month for nine months of every school year. Executive director
                         Walter Byers reasoned that such scholarships would clean up college sports
                         by establishing a true standard of amateurism: athletes were receiving
                         money only for expenses; they were not being paid to perform on the
                         athletic field; and the institution was the sole entity providing funds.
                         Prior to the 1948 code, players had received payments directly from
                         boosters and alumni for their performance on the field. The association
                         soon realized, however, that full-ride 
                              5Walter Byers, Unsportsmanlike
                              Conduct: Exploiting College Athletes
                                   (Ann Arbor,
                                   Mich.,
                                   1995), 74.
                              6Watterson, College
                                        Football, 285.
                              7John R. Thelin, Games Colleges
                                        Play: Scandal and Reform in Intercollegiate Athletics
                                   (Baltimore,
                                   Md., 1994), 155.
                              8Watterson, College
                                        Football, 284.
                         
                          scholarships represented a form of
                         money laundering that allowed boosters, fans, and alumni to give money to
                         athletic departments that might then provide those same funds to their
                              student-athletes.9
                    By the late 1950s, the NCAA had emerged as the primary investigative and
                         enforcement agency in collegiate sports. While regional differences and the
                         power of individual conferences had undermined previous efforts to
                         establish national rules and reforms, and while some conference
                         commissioners still attempted to thwart NCAA investigations or conducted
                         separate investigations, the association was able to transcend regional and
                         conference politics and apply a relatively standard enforcement program on
                         all members of the association. Ultimately, the NCAA won the power struggle
                         with conferences for control of intercollegiate athletics.10
                    From its new position of power, the NCAA permitted conferences some leeway in
                         implementing its new financial aid policies. The Big Eight Conference, for
                         example, granted one-year full-ride scholarships; the Southwest Conference
                         granted four-year full-ride scholarships; the Ivy League offered no
                         athletic scholarships; and the Big Ten Conference initially implemented
                         one-year need-based aid to replace the previous job-based program.11 At a special conference meeting in August 1956,
                         faculty athletics representatives and athletic directors discussed whether
                         to adopt full-ride or need-based scholarships, or to continue the job-based
                         program. The Big Ten decided to base its financial aid on the expected
                         ability of a student-athlete's parents to pay for college expenses.12 The conference's newly created financial aid
                         office subtracted the expected family contribution from the cost of
                         attendance and informed prospects of the amount of aid to be received. In
                         order to receive any aid in their first year, incoming freshman athletes
                         were required to finish in the top two-thirds of their high school class.
                         Full scholarships were available only to those who finished in the upper
                         fourth of their high school class and continued to meet conference academic
                         requirements in subsequent years. Lastly, the Big Ten continued its policy
                         of allowing 
                              9Byers, Unsportsmanlike
                                        Conduct, 72-73.
                              10Watterson, College
                                        Football, 284; Thelin, Games Colleges
                                        Play, 115; Byers, Unsportsmanlike
                                        Conduct, 123.
                              11Byers, Unsportsmanlike
                                        Conduct, 105.
                              12Bruce Erickson, "History of Financial
                                   Aid to Athletes in the Big Ten, 1941-1961" (M.A. thesis,
                                   University of Wisconsin, 1970), 65.
                         
                         
                         representatives of athletics interests (boosters) to help athletes find
                         jobs, provided that the athlete was paid commensurate with the going
                         wage.
                    The Big Ten's need-based aid policy failed and in 1962 was eliminated in
                         favor of full-ride scholarships. Need-based aid failed not only because it
                         increased the conference's administrative workload, but also because
                         it hindered the ability of conference schools to recruit the best athletes
                         within the rules. Because other major football conferences had implemented
                         full-ride scholarships, the Big Ten faced a significant competitive
                         disadvantage in recruiting. Prospects could receive a larger grant-in-aid
                         package at schools in other conferences, including some conferences that
                         offered four-year scholarships instead of one-year renewable
                              scholarships.13 Recognizing the Big Ten's
                         noble yet naive attempt to implement a unilateral need-based aid system,
                         former NCAA head Walter Byers noted that, "competing schools laughed
                         at the Big Ten as they mined the lode of athletic talent in the Big Ten
                              area."14 Ultimately, conference schools faced
                         the option of cheating and staying competitive or following the new rules
                         and losing. In 1956, a Big Ten committee recognized that "the most
                         profitable football programs, such as Michigan's, would have the money
                         to obtain blue-chip talent, and the want-to-be's would have to resort
                         to underhanded methods."15 Duffy Daugherty, head
                         football coach at Michigan State University from 1954 to 1972, later
                         reflected with humor on the years of need-based aid by honestly admitting,
                         "We had need once, as you know, and we don't want to have to
                         cheat again."16 A Big Ten recruiter at the time
                         admitted, "Let's face it. We all do a little bit for the kids on
                         the side. You almost have to these days if the kid is any good at
                              all."17
                    Big Ten schools may have believed that they were forced to break the
                         conference financial aid policy. Doubtless, some institutions offered
                         illegal payments in order to win games. The success of the Big Ten in
                         interconference football during the years of need-based aid can be
                         attributed partially to illegal payments, but it is also important to
                         recognize 
                              13Ibid., 68.
                              14Byers, Unsportsmanlike
                                        Conduct, 105.
                              15Watterson, College
                                        Football, 299.
                              16Mervin D. Hyman and Gordon White, Big Ten Football, its Life and Times, Great
                                        Coaches, Players, and Games (New York, 1977),
                                   41.
                              17Jack Olsen, "What's So
                                   Funny?" Sports Illustrated, May 16, 1960,
                                   22-25.
                         
                          that during the same time period many
                         Big Ten schools were recruiting African American players before the same
                         practice was adopted by southern schools.18 The Big
                         Ten's winning percentage in interconference football games during the
                         years of need-based aid was .744—much better than its record in the five
                         years prior (.655) and five years after (.544) the need-based aid
                              policy.19
                    The structure of the rules and the expectation for alumni involvement also
                         played a key role in the violations at Indiana. Like the other Big Ten
                         institutions, IU relied on its alumni and boosters to identify, contact,
                         and recruit prospective student-athletes. These and other representatives
                         of an institution's athletic interests were expected to serve two
                         critical functions. First, NCAA rules required that the representative make
                         the initial home contact with a prospect; athletic department staff could
                         not make a home visit until the scholarship was signed. Second,
                         representatives were needed to finance each prospect's recruiting
                         visit to campus. NCAA rules, prior to 1959, prohibited schools from paying
                         for visits to campus. Big Ten athletic departments needed boosters even
                         after a tender had been signed, because the prospect could still sign with
                         another institution outside of the conference. Indiana athletic director
                         Frank Allen, in a letter to alumni and fans, urged his recruiters to
                         "sell the boy on the overall, worldwide prestige which Indiana
                         University and her alumni have attained in the education, professional, and
                         business world."20
                    A final element in the problems that unfolded at IU was the rapid rate at
                         which NCAA and conference rules were changing at the time. Coaches
                         sometimes intentionally violated the rules, believing that current rules
                         would soon change and therefore they did not need to comply with them.21 Coaches and administrators knew, for example, that
                         the need-based aid policy implemented by the conference placed its schools
                         at a competitive disadvantage and believed that a full-ride scholarship
                         system would soon be adopted.




                    
                         18Watterson, College Football,
                              315.
                         19Records were compiled from James Howell's
                              college football site at http://www.jhowell.net/cf/
                              scores/ScoresIndex.htm.
                         20Frank Allen to Indiana University Friends and
                              Alumni, February 25, 1958, box 2, Series: Subject Files 1940-1964,
                              Indiana University Athletics Committee Records, collection 102,
                              Indiana University Archives, Bloomington,
                              Indiana.
                         21Erickson, "History of Financial Aid to
                              Athletes in the Big Ten," 77.
                    


                    
                    Indiana's recruiting philosophy was shaped by its football fortunes.
                         From 1900 through the 1956 football season, IU had experienced a history of
                         losing. With only seven winning seasons in conference play and one
                         conference championship over the fifty-seven-year period, Indiana football
                         was clearly the doormat in the conference. The school's only
                         conference championship had come in 1945, when the playing field had been
                         leveled due to the number of players serving in World War II.
                         Indiana's last winning season had come in Bo McMillin's final
                         season as coach in 1947. Coach Clyde Smith compiled an 8-27-1 record
                         between 1948 and 1951, and Coach Bernie Crimmins compiled a 13-32 record
                         between 1952 and 1956. Alumni and boosters had long lamented Indiana's
                         lack of success in football, and they perceived recruiting as a major
                         problem. The heavy emphasis on basketball within state high schools and the
                         IU athletic department; the small number (less than 200) of state high
                         schools that fielded football programs, especially in southern
                         Indiana; and
                         the fact that there were three major college football programs within the
                         state—all these factors handicapped IU's ability to recruit talented
                         football players.22 In 1952, Big Ten commissioner
                         Kenneth "Tug" Wilson told IU athletic director Paul J. Harrell
                         that he was "firmly convinced Indiana University is slowly digging its
                         own grave athletically in the state" due to an emphasis on recruiting
                         players outside the state. Harrell's reply emphasized that there was
                         not enough football talent in the state to permit three major teams to
                         compete; that the best football programs took the best Indiana athletes;
                         and that, while it was not difficult to recruit 15 basketball players from
                         800 high schools, it was much harder to find enough football players from
                         the 157 Indiana high schools that had football programs.23 Clearly, a change in recruiting philosophy was essential for
                         Indiana to be successful in football.
                    Phil Dickens, hired in February 1957 after completing an undefeated season at
                         the University of Wyoming, brought his entire coaching staff with him to
                                   Bloomington.
                         Dickens's hiring was heralded as a major step forward for the IU
                         football program for two reasons. First, Dickens had been a highly
                         successful coach at Wofford College and Wyoming, with a career record of
                         69-27 and no losing seasons, and he was seen as 
                              22Thomas D. Clark, Indiana
                                        University, Midwestern Pioneer, vol. 3, Years of Fulfillment (Bloomington,
                                   Ind., 1977),
                                   335.
                              23Ibid., 336.
                         
                         
                         
                              Coach Phil Dickens and his staff during his first season at IU,
                                   1957. NCAA penalties for recruiting violations by Dickens and
                                   assistant coaches kept IU athletic teams from postseason
                                   competition for four years.
                              Courtesy Indiana University Archives
                          a top recruiter of football talent. Second, the athletic
                         department had proposed the construction of a new athletics plant north of
                         campus to replace the existing centrally located complex, which meant that
                         the football program needed to make money in order to finance the
                         construction of new facilities. The planned expansion also gave Dickens
                         additional incentives with which to recruit top players. The hire
                         complimented President Herman B Wells's 1956 four-step proposal for
                         improving athletics: hiring the best coaches, engendering new interest
                         among faculty and alumni, creating a student athletics committee, and
                         building new facilities.24
                    Coach Dickens's hiring coincided with implementation of the Big
                         Ten's need-based aid policy. Conference commissioner Wilson had the
                         difficult task of explaining the new rules to returning and newly hired
                         coaches. Wilson later claimed that he made a special effort to inform the
                              
                              24Ibid., 339.
                         
                          new coaches.25
                         Dickens, however, knowing that Indiana was a difficult place to win and
                         that the entire conference faced a competitive disadvantage in recruitment,
                         blatantly disregarded the rules. In the first three months of
                         Dickens's coaching tenure, Wilson received reports of seventeen
                         violations by the IU football program. The reports typically stated that
                         the school was offering $50 per month or expense-paid travel between the
                         prospect's hometown and Bloomington. In other cases, athletes who had
                         been brought to IU and then visited another school reportedly asked why
                         they could not receive as good a deal as had been offered by the Dickens
                         staff. Wilson also received calls from high school coaches who reported
                         what their athletes had been offered on recruiting trips to Indiana. Even
                         though none of the offers was actually consummated, Wilson decided to make
                         a strong statement that the new financial aid policies must be followed.26 As a result, he gave Indiana the option of
                         withdrawing from the conference or suspending Dickens for one year.27 Wishing to retain its membership in the conference,
                         Indiana chose to forbid Dickens from performing any coaching-related
                         activities during the 1957 football season. Using the research conducted by
                         the Big Ten conference staff, the NCAA subsequently placed Indiana on
                         probation for one year.
                    In response to the conference penalties, university administrators admitted
                         that they had not adequately communicated the new financial aid rules to
                         their new football coaching staff. According to a statement released by
                         President Wells after the penalties were imposed, "Indiana voted for
                         adoption of the new rules of the Conference. These rules became effective
                         almost coincident with the change by the University in its football
                         coaching staff. The new rules and a new staff which arrived late resulted
                         in much confusion and misunderstanding."28 Coach
                         Dickens echoed this sentiment, stating that "I can say in good
                         conscience that if I was in violation of the rules in statements attributed
                         to me I was not aware of it, nor did I intend to violate the
                              rules."29


                    
                         25Kenneth Wilson and Jerry Brondfield, The Big Ten (Englewood
                                        Cliffs, N.J., 1967),
                              298.
                         26Ibid., 300.
                         27Tug Wilson to Herman Wells, July 18, 1957, box
                              1, Series: Subject Files 1940-1964, Indiana University Athletics
                              Committee Records, collection 102, Indiana University Archives.
                         28Bill Reed, Western Conference Press Release,
                              July 28, 1957, box 1, Series: Subject Files 1940- 1964, Indiana
                              University Athletics Committee Records, collection 102, Indiana
                              University Archives.
                         29Ibid.
                    


                    


                    In order to avoid future problems with conference and national enforcement,
                         Indiana needed to fix the problems prevalent in the football program.
                         However, both athletic director Frank Allen and President Wells
                         underestimated the severity of the problem and the extent to which coaches
                         and boosters were willing to go to recruit the best players. Even though
                         Allen responded to the conference's punitive action by making several
                         administrative and structural changes to the department, the changes did
                         not go far enough to stop the culture of cheating that had infected the
                         football program.30 In an effort to eliminate
                         recruiting problems, the athletic department adopted a policy forbidding
                         coaches from discussing financial aid with recruits. That responsibility
                         would fall to newly hired administrative assistant Chris Dal Sasso, a
                         former IU football player who was designated as the only person in the
                         athletic department to discuss financial aid with recruits. The department
                         also hired Bob Dro, a member of the 1940 championship basketball team, to
                         serve as assistant athletic director in charge of rules compliance and
                         alumni groups.
                    Unfortunately, there was a major flaw in Allen's restructuring decision:
                         he had hired two administrators with deep ties to the university. What
                         Allen needed was an objective administrator willing to enforce the new
                         conference policies and to tell boosters and coaches when they stepped out
                         of line. Another missed opportunity to correct the problem can be traced to
                         the Board of Trustees. Following the 1957 season, rather than criticizing
                         the football program's recruiting violations, the trustees instead
                         declared that "football must be raised to the competitive level which
                         the university has achieved with notable success," only heightening
                         the pressure to field a winning team.31
                    In 1957, IU struggled amidst the turmoil of Dickens's suspension. Under
                         the leadership of coach-in-charge Bob Hicks, the team finished its season
                         with one win and eight losses. After the disappointment of 1957, Coach
                         Dickens was reinstated; the subsequent football seasons were, by IU
                         standards, very successful. The team finished its 1958 season 5-3-1 overall
                         and 3-2-1 in the conference. After a surprising 8-6 victory at Michigan
                         late in the season, Dickens placed third in Coach of the Year 
                              30Herman Wells to Walter Byers, October 14,
                                   1958, box 2, Series: Subject Files 1940-1964, Indiana University
                                   Athletics Committee Records, collection 102, Indiana University
                                   Archives.
                              31Clark, Indiana University,
                                        Midwestern Pioneer, 3:343.
                         
                          voting and was named Midwest Coach of
                         the Year.32 The Hoosiers finished their 1959 season
                         4-4-1 and nearly scored an upset victory at Ohio State, but IU settled for
                         a tie when a questionable call on the game's final play disallowed
                         what would have been the game-winning touchdown in a 0-0 contest.33 Indiana's 26-7 triumph over Michigan on
                         November 14 was the final home victory in old Memorial Stadium.
                    Indiana's success on the field in 1958 and 1959 brought further
                         investigation by the NCAA and Big Ten. The investigation and the resulting
                         penalties in 1960 are consistent with what some scholars have described as
                         the NCAA's "cartel behavior," based on the
                         organization's use of probabilistic evidence—such as rapid changes
                         from losing to winning seasons—as a method to detect rules violations.34 "One would expect," write Arthur
                         Fleisher, Brian Goff, and Robert Tollison, "to see enforcement and
                         punishment actions brought against members performing extraordinarily well
                         given their historical performance."35 This theory
                         partially explains the NCAA's interest in Indiana. Not only was IU
                         likely to be re-investigated based upon the one-year probation handed down
                         in 1957, but the football program also enjoyed too much success and
                         defeated the wrong schools in the following two years. The team's 1958
                         record was its best in eleven years; IU notched its first four-game win
                         streak in twelve years; it defeated West Virginia, a team that had averaged
                         over seven wins the past six seasons, 13-12 in Bloomington; and it soundly
                         defeated perennial power Michigan on their home field.36 Just seven months after that victory, the NCAA officially
                         opened its investigation against the athletic department, which included
                         testimony from a West Virginia football player alleging that IU had made
                         illegal financial aid offers.37



                    
                         321959 Indiana University Football
                                   Media Guide.
                         33Personal interview with former Indiana
                              assistant coach Bob Hicks, February 6, 2006.
                         34Arthur Fleisher, Brian Goff, and Robert
                              Tollison, The National Collegiate Athletic Association: A
                              Study in Cartel Behavior (Chicago, 1992), 100; Andrew
                              Zimbalist, Unpaid Professionals: Commercialism and
                              Conflict in Big-Time College Sports (Princeton,
                              N.J., 1999),
                              chap. 8.
                         35Fleisher, Goff, and Tollison, The
                                   National Collegiate Athletic Association, 32.
                         36This was the first game in IU football history
                              in which the team wore light blue jerseys. The team wore the blue
                              jerseys at home for the remainder of the season. 2003
                                   Indiana University Football Media Guide.
                         37The NCAA opened its preliminary investigation
                              one day after Indiana was removed from the one-year probation in
                              October 1958. However, the NCAA did not open its official
                              investigation until June 1959.
                    





                    
                    
                         IU Athletic Directors Frank Allen and Bill Orwig (photographs 1957 and
                              1961). Allen and President Herman B Wells were responsible for
                              defending the university before the NCAA; all three were tasked with
                              the repercussions of the penalties imposed on the university.
                         Courtesy Indiana University Archives
                    


                    
                    Numerous university personnel—including President Wells and athletic director
                         Allen—and student-athletes were interviewed in the course of the NCAA
                         investigation. In April 1960, the association's Committee on
                         Infractions concluded by charging Indiana with six rules violations:38
                         
                              An alumnus offered a prospective student-athlete free vacation
                                   transportation between home and IU
                              A representative of athletics interests offered a prospective
                                   student-athlete free vacation transportation, clothing, a
                                   monthly cash stipend, and a cash bonus
                              An alumnus working with an assistant coach offered a prospective
                                   student-athlete a cash bonus, a monthly stipend, and free medical
                                   care for the athlete's invalid father
                              A fictitious alumnus identified as "Dr. Palmer"
                                   offered a cash bonus and free vacation transportation, while an
                                   assistant coach advised that the athlete could rely upon what
                                   "Dr. Palmer" had said
                              Two prospective student-athletes stayed at the house of a
                                   representative of athletics interests for eight days prior to
                                   their enrollment at IU
                              An assistant coach used an alias on at least two occasions in
                                   the recruitment of a prospective student-athlete, one of these
                                   times referring to himself as "Dr. Palmer"
                         
                    The university faced an uphill battle in fighting the charges brought by the
                         committee. Nevertheless, IU officials and Commissioner Wilson traveled to
                         Atlanta to present their defense before the NCAA Council.39 IU offered seven defenses in an attempt to draw lighter
                         penalties from the committee.40 First, the school
                         denied all but one allegation (offer of a suit of clothes to a prospect)
                         and concluded that Big Ten, NCAA, and IU investigations had left room for
                         differences in judgment. The conflicting testimony offered by
                         student-athletes to IU, conference, and NCAA investigators made it
                         difficult to determine the facts. Second, 
                              38Major infractions cases are available on
                                   the NCAA website in the Legislative Services Database,
                                   http://www.ncaa.org.
                              39Wilson and Brondfield, The
                                        Big Ten, 316.
                              40Indiana's argument presented to the
                                   NCAA is found in Herman Wells's prepared speech given to
                                   members of the Athletic Committee, April 25, 1960, box 2, Series:
                                   Subject Files 1940-1964, Indiana University Athletics Committee
                                   Records, collection 102, Indiana University Archives.
                         
                          Commissioner Wilson lobbied for
                         penalties to be applied strictly to the football program. Wilson was
                         concerned that the NCAA would impose a blanket postseason ban—already
                         imposed on fifteen occasions over the previous five years. IU officials
                         trusted Wilson and appreciated his support. On July 31, 1959, Frank Allen
                         had written to faculty representative John Mee: "Tug Wilson is
                         definitely a friend, cohort, and ally of ours in this instance. As a matter
                         of fact, Tug stated that he has investigated each one of the instances
                         under question by the NCAA and that he has cleared us of any suspicion or
                         improper actions."41
                    Third, IU officials emphasized that none of the recruits who allegedly
                         received offers of illegal financial assistance had actually attended the
                         university—two attended Purdue, one attended Clemson, and one attended West
                         Virginia. Additionally, they pointed out that their two most bitter
                         recruiting rivals, Purdue and Kentucky, were in the center of three of the
                         cited cases. The two recruits who had allegedly stayed at an alumnus's
                         home were attempting to escape the aggressive recruiting tactics employed
                         by Kentucky.
                    Fourth, IU emphasized that all of the alleged inducements were made by a
                         representative of athletics interests and not an athletic department staff
                         member. Indiana knew this was a weak defense that had not been accepted in
                         prior NCAA and conference decisions. Wilson had already written to Mee:
                         "I am inclined to think that Bob Dro and Phil Dickens both feel it is
                         impossible to control alumni, but you will remember that in the Michigan
                         State case this was held a direct responsibility of the university, that
                         alumni are responsible to the institution, and where alumni are asked to
                         help recruit, they become in fact representatives of the
                              university."42
                    Fifth, IU pointed out that it had terminated the employment of the assistant
                         coach who used an alias and had dissociated itself from the alumnus who had
                         admitted to offering a suit of clothes to a recruit. Sixth, officials
                         questioned the methods employed by NCAA investigators, finding particular
                         fault with the interview of a student-athlete at West Virginia who had been
                         flanked by two of that school's assistant coaches during the interview
                         and maintaining that the young athlete 
                              41Frank Allen to John Mee, July 31, 1959,
                                   box 2, Series: Subject Files 1940-1964, Indiana University
                                   Athletics Committee Records, collection 102, Indiana University
                                   Archives.
                              42Tug Wilson to John Mee, January 29, 1960,
                                   box 2, Series: Subject Files 1940-1964, Indiana University
                                   Athletics Committee Records, collection 102, Indiana University
                                   Archives.
                         
                          would never have said anything
                         contrary to what his coaches wanted him to say. Finally, President Wells
                         pleaded for penalties that would not devastate the university: I think it must be borne in mind that reputations of
                              educational dignity and purpose are inevitably affected adversely by
                              actions which certain of these processes contemplate... As an
                              institutional head who feels deeply his total responsibilities to and
                              on behalf of his University and higher education generally, my earnest
                              conviction that the vast powers of this body must be exercise[d] with
                              utmost discretion, a conviction which I am certain you share with
                                   me.43


                    Despite the university's earnest attempt to defend itself against all
                         charges, the NCAA placed IU on a four-year probation, which included an
                         all-sports ban on television appearances and NCAA championship competition.
                         Further, the school was not permitted representation on any NCAA
                         legislative decision-making committees. The association justified its
                         penalties on several grounds.44 Most importantly, five
                         of the six violations had occurred while Indiana was still on probation for
                         the 1957 violations.45 Second, the NCAA concluded that
                         there was a close similarity between the offers made in 1958 and 1959 and
                         those made by the football staff in 1957. Third, the association determined
                         that the illegal offers were not the actions of outsiders acting
                         independently or of one assistant coach acting irresponsibly, but rather
                         were the result of a system of illegal aid orchestrated by the head coach.
                         Even if Dickens had not orchestrated the aid, the NCAA argued, as head
                         coach he was still responsible for the entire program. Fourth, the NCAA
                         concluded that the assistant coach cited in the violations could not have
                         set up the necessary alumni contacts without the help of the head coach,
                         because the assistant was on his first recruiting trip when the violations
                         occurred in 1958.




                    
                         43Herman B Wells, speech to members of the
                              Athletic Committee, April 25, 1960, box 2, Series: Subject Files
                              1940-1964, Indiana University Athletics Committee Records, collection
                              102, Indiana University Archives.
                         44Major Infractions Cases, Legislative Services
                              Database, http://www.ncaa.org.
                         45Walter Byers to Herman Wells, June 30, 1959,
                              box 2, Series: Subject Files 1940-1964, Indiana University Athletics
                              Committee Records, collection 102, Indiana University Archives.
                    


                    
                    The Big Ten, based on its own investigation, presented its summary of
                         violations on June 6, 1960.46 The conference, which
                         examined a larger number of reported irregularities than the NCAA,
                         concluded that four recruits were offered and received illegal aid and then
                         withdrew from the university; that three recruits received illegal aid,
                         although no offer was established, then withdrew from the university; that
                         another five recruits were offered illegal aid but did not enroll; and that
                         three cases could not be resolved. Additionally, Big Ten investigators
                         reported that a considerable number of student-athletes interviewed during
                         the investigation believed that football players were receiving illegal
                         aid, and that six former student-athletes had referred to the existence of
                         sponsors, sugar daddies, and big daddies for athletes at IU.47
                    Indiana's response to the Big Ten's summary of violations was
                         similar to the one presented before the NCAA in April.48 President Wells emphasized that the Big Ten should take into
                         consideration Indiana's sixty-year membership in the conference, its
                         record of compliance with the rules, and its longstanding healthy attitude
                         toward athletics. Second, the university invoked the concept of double
                         jeopardy, reminding Commissioner Wilson of the severe punishment already
                         doled out by the NCAA. Third, administrators attacked the character and
                         credibility of the players who had brought charges, pointing out instances
                         in which these particular students had been in trouble with the law,
                         received poor grades, or had proven themselves to be dishonest during the
                         course of their enrollment. Wells noted in reference to one student who had
                         made especially fantastic claims, "If a maladjusted, vindictive,
                         sadistic, and wholly unreliable individual ever tried to cause trouble for
                         a public institution, this character seems to be it."49
                    Fourth, Indiana again questioned the methods used by conference
                         investigators. The most egregious impropriety, according to the 
                              46Summary of Allegations Against Indiana
                                   University, June 6, 1960, box 2, Series: Subject Files 1940-1964,
                                   Indiana University Athletics Committee Records, collection 102,
                                   Indiana University Archives.
                              47Ibid.
                              48Herman Wells to Tug Wilson, undated [c.
                                   mid-June 1960], box 2, Series: Subject Files 1940- 1964, Indiana
                                   University Athletics Committee Records, collection 102, Indiana
                                   University Archives.
                              49Ibid.
                         
                          university, was that investigators had
                         illegally posed as FBI agents. Conference investigators had also claimed
                         that other schools were being investigated and had violated the rules, both
                         of which were untrue. On one occasion a student-athlete was interviewed
                         while under the influence of alcohol; the university also noted a pattern
                         of students simply agreeing with the line of questioning employed by the
                         investigator-a practice that led to both Big Ten and IU investigations
                         producing a large amount of conflicting evidence.
                    University officials also restated their opposition to disgruntled
                         student-athletes lodging allegations against the athletic department; Wells
                         argued that such students found it easy to accuse the school of making
                         illegal offers and payments because they held no loyalty to the
                         institution. Wells also urged the Big Ten to interview dissatisfied
                         student-athletes at other conference schools to see if they would turn
                         against their own athletic programs. Finally, Indiana argued that the
                         conference had violated basic principles of American justice by refusing to
                         allow the accused to face their accusers.
                    Despite IU's arguments and the intercession of Indiana Governor Harold W
                         Handley, Commissioner Wilson concluded that "I have grave doubts any
                         such practices on the scale suggested by the cases at hand could possibly
                         have been carried on without the knowledge of and, indeed, the approval of
                         the football coaching staff."50 Based on the
                         evidence, the Big Ten placed Indiana on one year of probation and excluded
                         the school from sharing in television revenues from the 1960 season and
                         from counting the season's football games in the conference
                         standings.
                    Indiana University now faced the daunting task of repairing its tarnished
                         image and the reputation of its athletic department. The penalties levied
                         against the school adversely affected team performance, took a toll on the
                         athletic department budget, and caused a major structural overhaul of the
                         athletics administration.
                    While the NCAA sanctions hindered the competitiveness of the historically
                         poor football program, more damage was done to the highly successful IU
                         teams. Punitive action by the NCAA and Big Ten ensured 
                              50Tug Wilson to Herman Wells, July 29, 1960,
                                   box 2, Series: Subject Files 1940-1964, Indiana University
                                   Athletics Committee Records, collection 102, Indiana University
                                   Archives.
                         
                          that all of the university's
                         athletic teams were ineligible to compete in NCAA championships for four
                         years. Coaches in every sport were impaired in their ability to recruit the
                         best athletes; the IU swimming program was probably hurt most of all,
                         losing chances at three national championships. As Thomas Clark writes in
                         his history of IU: "The wound of indiscreet football recruiting was
                         indeed deep and infectious, reaching out and denying a generation of top
                         quality athletes an opportunity to share in the glories of a conference
                         which laid great store by physical excellence."51
                    The overall performance of athletic teams at Indiana was only moderately
                         hampered during the probation years. In the four years prior to receiving
                         the all-sports ban from the NCAA, IU's baseball, football, basketball,
                         golf, gymnastics, tennis, and wrestling teams recorded a 133-137-7 record
                         (a .493 winning percentage) against Big Ten competition. During the
                         four-year probationary period, the same teams notched a 123-143-2 record
                         against Big Ten competition-a decline of just 3 percent in winning
                              percentage.52 However, the probationary status did
                         not affect the performance of the swimming and diving program. James
                         "Doc" Counsilman and Hobie Billingsley led that program to
                         perfection in conference competition, posting an undefeated record and
                         winning the Big Ten championship every year during probation.
                    Coach Doc Counsilman's status as a leader in the sport of swimming
                         attracted the top athletes in the world to IU.53 The
                         swimming program notched an undefeated dual-meet record from 1960-1964 and
                         1967-1978, won twenty consecutive Big Ten championships from 1961- 1980,
                         and earned six consecutive NCAA titles from 1968-1973. The swimming program
                         finished third in 1959 and 1960, so it is safe to assume that Indiana could
                         have won more than six national championships, had they been given the
                         opportunity to compete in 1961, 1962, and 1963. (The four-year postseason
                         ban was later shortened to three 
                              51Clark, Indiana University,
                                        Midwestern Pioneer, 3:350.
                              52Compiled based on historical team records
                                   in Bob Hammel and Kit Klingelhoffer, Glory of Old
                                   IU: 100 Years of Indiana Athletics
                                   (Champaign,
                                   Ill.,
                                   1999). Cross-country and track were not used in the compilation
                                   of the records because they did not face Big Ten competition in
                                   the four years prior to the probationary period.
                              53Doc Counsilman: Making
                                        Waves, produced by Kelly Morris and directed by Jay
                                   Kincaid (Bloomington,
                                             Ind., WTIU, 2003),
                                   videocassette.
                         
                         
                         
                              U Swimming Coach Doc Counsilman, 1961. Counsilman and his
                                   top-ranked swim teams were among those most adversely affected by
                                   the NCAA ban on postseason competition.
                              Courtesy Indiana University Archives
                          years, allowing the swimming team to participate and finish
                         second in the 1964 championships.) Commenting on the ban in 1962,
                         Counsilman said: "Naturally, we're disappointed. We're very
                         disappointed. We've been called the No. 1 college swimming team in
                         the country, and we'd like a chance to prove it."54
                    The Big Ten penalties also significantly affected the athletic department
                         budget, creating a major financial shortfall at a critical point in the
                         development of the university's competitive athletics program. The
                         penalties were handed down at the same time that the new athletics plant,
                         constructed through the issuance of bonds at no cost to taxpayers, was
                         completed at a cost of $6 million. Conference penalties hampered the
                         athletic department's ability to repay the bonds in three ways. First,
                              
                              54Clark, Indiana University,
                                        Midwestern Pioneer, 3:350.
                         
                          the elimination of television revenue
                         from the 1960 football season cost the athletic department $70,000. Second,
                         as new athletic director Bill Orwig remarked, "the penalties imposed
                         on us by the NCAA and the Big Ten was [sic] a consideration of financial
                         groups bidding on our bonds"-increasing the interest rate on the bonds
                         and resulting in an additional estimated cost of $350,000 to the athletic
                              department.55 Third, the poor performance of the
                         football program had a negative impact on gate receipts. From 1960-1964,
                         still under the leadership of Coach Dickens, Indiana won only three
                         conference games and six home games, and recorded a 11-34 overall record.
                         Average attendance during this time was 24,047, only 49 percent of the
                         stadium's seating and revenue-generating capacity.56
                    To ensure future compliance with NCAA and Big Ten regulations, the IU
                         athletic department hired new personnel and implemented new policies.57 As noted above, Bill Orwig replaced athletic
                         director Allen, who had retired after the NCAA investigations concluded.
                         Former basketball coach Everett Dean was hired to travel across the country
                         to speak to alumni and friends of the university about the penalties levied
                         against IU and to explain Big Ten and NCAA recruiting rules. From a policy
                         standpoint, the athletic department created and continually updated a list
                         of representatives of athletics interests, required that all names of
                         prospective student-athletes be given to the president, charged each head
                         coach with ensuring that all rules be followed, hired a former FBI agent to
                         spot-check athletes for offers of illegal aid, placed showcause orders on
                         offending staff members not in compliance with the rules, and dissociated
                         itself from representatives of athletics interests if a rules violation
                         occurred. Finally, Coach Dickens's contract was renewed following the
                         penalties, but was conditional upon strict adherence to the rules.



                    
                         551960 Indiana University Football
                                   Media Guide; Bill Orwig to the Big Ten Conference, May 9,
                              1961, box 2, Series: Subject Files 1940-1964, Indiana University
                              Athletics Committee Records, collection 102, Indiana University
                              Archives. Cost for the plant included the football stadium, site
                              development, and the parking lot.
                         56Based upon 48,344 stadium capacity, documented
                              in 1960 Indiana University Football Media Guide. The
                              current capacity is listed at 52,354. The largest crowd to ever see a
                              game in Memorial Stadium occurred on October 20, 1973, when 53,183
                              witnessed Ohio State drub IU 37-7.
                         571960 Indiana University Football
                                   Media Guide.
                    


                    

                    At the end of Indiana's one-year probation in the Big Ten, the athletic
                         department sent a report to the conference indicating the changes that had
                         been made to ensure compliance. In addition to new policies and new
                         personnel, the university offered its philosophy and objectives for
                              athletics:58
                         
                              Ensure 100 percent compliance with the rules
                              Develop a competitive athletic program
                              Maintain a diversified athletic program
                              Provide alumni seeking recruits with a brochure that sells the
                                   university and explains the recruiting rules
                              Maintain high academic standards
                              Encourage coaches to develop a closer relationship with the
                                   faculty
                              University administration will support the coaches
                              Schedule only non-conference opponents who meet Indiana's
                                   standards
                              Increase scholarship funding through the Varsity Club
                         
                    The report never addressed formal plans for controlling alumni and boosters.
                         Orwig stated that all stakeholders involved with the athletic program at IU
                         had been educated regarding the rules, and he indicated that each coach was
                         responsible for all the boosters associated with his program, but he did
                         not offer a clearly delineated plan for preventing the same recruiting
                         problems. Instead, the report implied that Indiana had learned its lesson
                         and would not be careless enough to go through the punishment again. Orwig
                         also offered the university's alumni a possible explanation for how
                         the rules violations had occurred: Under the work
                              program in operation before the adoption of the present
                              financial-assistance program, a large number of alumni employed
                              athletes and paid them for services rendered in these jobs. When the
                              work program was eliminated by the adoption of the current plan, it is
                              assumed that these alumni, probably misguided in their zeal to help
                              and certainly badly uninformed as to the rules and what they could do
                              under them, continued to make payments for these services, although
                              the job had become 
                                   58Bill Orwig to the Big Ten Conference,
                                        May 9, 1961, box 2, Series: Subject Files 1940-1964, Indiana
                                        University Athletics Committee Records, collection 102,
                                        Indiana University Archives.
                              
                               nonexistent. There is probably
                              circumstantial evidence sufficient enough to perhaps indicate that a
                              member or members of the athletic staff were cognizant of these doings
                              or perhaps had a reasonable feeling they were occurring, but possibly
                              made no effort to curb them. However, this evidence is completely
                              circumstantial and as such, I do not feel should be used as
                              implicating any member of the staff. Orwig went on to say
                         that: I feel the less we say both publicly and
                              otherwise about our probation the better off we are going to be. We
                              should go quietly about the things we have to do and get our house in
                              order, letting the people at the university who have the
                              responsibility for this to get the job done... Cooperation and
                              loyalty also go hand-in-hand with morale. We have to have it within
                              our athletic department and we have to have it among our players. A
                              house divided against itself cannot stand. And certainly if we are
                              divided in our loyalty as Indiana alumni we cannot stand either.59


                    The Big Ten's 1956 prediction that struggling teams would turn to
                         illegal recruiting to compete with powerhouse schools proved, in IU's
                         case, to be true. A Sports Illustrated article published immediately
                         following the announcement of the NCAA penalties concluded that other
                         schools were cheating by paying players, but that Indiana was guilty of not
                         knowing how to break the rules.60 Because IU recruiters
                         showed no finesse and openly made offers of illegal assistance instead of
                         allowing alumni to quietly make payments behind the scenes, word of the
                         offers traveled fast to the NCAA and Big Ten investigators. Despite all the
                         controversy and bad press, alumni and fans still fervently supported Coach
                         Dickens, believing he was being used to set an example and questioning why
                         the NCAA had picked on a team with a beleaguered football history. For
                         their part, Big Ten university presidents and conference leaders 
                              59Bill Orwig, "On Athletic
                                   Picture," Indiana University Alumni
                                        Magazine (April 1961).
                              60Watterson, College
                                        Football, 299; Jack Olsen, "What's So
                                   Funny?" Sports Illustrated (May 16, 1960),
                                   22-25.
                         
                          were eager to prove that a need-based
                         financial aid system could work in intercollegiate athletics; to do so, the
                         conference had to crack down hard on schools suspected of offering more
                         than what was legally permitted.
                    Indiana University had placed itself in harm's way. Eager alumni who
                         wanted a winning football program tried to accomplish too much too fast at
                         the beginning of the Phil Dickens era. They enthusiastically offered
                         recruits financial assistance above what was permitted. Even after the
                         penalties of 1957, the athletic department failed to adopt a strong booster
                         education program to explain the new NCAA and conference rules by which
                         Indiana must abide. The department also failed to hire outside, objective
                         personnel to guide its decision-making process, instead bringing in two
                         former athletes, in addition to athletic director Allen, himself a former
                         IU football player. Thus, the top three athletics administrators at the
                         university were former IU athletes, with strong personal ambitions to
                         achieve a winning football program.61
                    In conclusion, the structure of conference and NCAA financial aid,
                         enforcement, and recruiting policies, combined with Indiana's
                         historically poor performance in football, set the stage for the
                         infractions and subsequent severe penalties levied against Indiana between
                         1957 and 1964. The Big Ten's need-based aid policy placed each school
                         in the conference at a competitive disadvantage in relation to schools able
                         to offer full scholarships to prospective student-athletes. Big Ten
                         institutions, including Indiana, felt pressure to break the need-based aid
                         policy in order to stay competitive with conference and national foes.
                         National recruiting rules added another factor as each institution relied
                         upon its alumni, fans, and boosters to play a significant role in
                         recruiting prospective student-athletes. Allowing boosters to make the
                         initial home visitation with a recruit opened the door for illegal
                         inducements. The enforcement powers only recently attained by the NCAA-in
                         part due to its ability to control postseason championship participation
                         and television revenue-enabled the association to punish institutions in
                         violation of its rules. Big Ten leaders, for their part, wanted to prove
                         the need-based aid policy could work and needed to demonstrate that it
                         could investigate and punish those institutions in violation of the
                         policy.




                    
                         61Bob Dro and Chris Dal Sasso served Indiana
                              University Athletics well over their administrative careers. In fact,
                              both are members of the IU Athletics Hall of Fame based upon their
                              on-field performances and service to the university.
                    


                    
                    In contrast to Coach Dickens in the 1950s, Kelvin Sampson inherited an
                         Indiana University men's basketball program that had, up until the
                         previous four seasons, enjoyed a long history of success: five NCAA titles,
                         one National Invitation Tournament title, one Collegiate Commissioners
                         Association title, and twenty Big Ten Conference championships. The
                         athletic department's firing of Bob Knight, the iconic and polarizing
                         head coach of the program from 1971-2000, resulted in considerable turmoil
                         among fans and alumni. His replacement, Mike Davis, proved unable to keep
                         the team competitive at its historic levels. During his final three years
                         as head coach, the Indiana program missed the NCAA tournament twice, and
                         Davis opted to resign effective at the end of the 2005-2006 season.
                    Against this backdrop, Indiana University hired Sampson, the longtime head
                         coach from the University of Oklahoma. Sampson had earned a reputation as a
                         hard-nosed defensive coach who had elevated the obscure programs of Montana
                         Tech and Washington State to respectability, and the previous decade had
                         seen Sampson's Oklahoma squads experience a good deal of success on
                         the court, including a Final Four appearance in 2002. Sampson had also
                         previously served as one of the chairs of the National Association of
                         Basketball Coaches ethics summit in 2003.62
                    Despite his impressive coaching resume, some saw Sampson's hiring as a
                         risk, due to allegations of NCAA rules violations during his tenure at
                         Oklahoma. The unusual circumstances surrounding the hire served to
                         highlight the lack of institutional order that would come to haunt the
                         program. Following the initial news that Sampson was IU's choice to
                         replace Davis, national media sources noted that Sampson and Oklahoma were
                         currently under investigation for impermissible phone calls to recruits.63 According to some press reports, Oklahoma's
                         administration had gone to the extreme step of discussing his termination,
                         before instead settling on freezing his salary and bonuses until the
                         investigation was completed.64 Despite these
                         questionable circumstances, 
                              62Andy Katz, "Sampson receives NCAAs
                                   harshest penalty," November 25, 2008, http://sports. espn.
                                   go.com/ncb/news/story?id=3725832.
                              63Andy Katz, "Sampson replaces Davis at
                                   Indiana," March 29, 2006, http://sports.espn.go.com/
                                   ncb/news/story?id=2387372.
                              64Gregg Doyel, "Now? Indiana wants
                                   Sampson as coach now?" March 28, 2006,
                                   http://www.cbssports.com/collegebasketball/story/9343485; Herald Times Online, "Kelvin Sampson
                                   Sanctions Timeline," February 13, 2008,
                                   http://www.heraldtimesonline.com/stories/ 2008/02/13/iusports.qp-
                                   5132965.sto.
                         
                          then-President Adam Herbert vouched
                         for Sampson in a March 29, 2006, news release, calling Sampson "the
                         right man to maintain and build upon IU's long and storied
                         traditions." Herbert went on to state his conviction that Sampson
                         understood the importance of IU's "high academic expectations and
                         the core character values of the university."65
                    Approximately one month after his hiring at Indiana, Sampson was found to
                         have made impermissible phone contact with potential recruits at Oklahoma,
                         and both Indiana and Sampson were placed on probation.66 The terms of the NCAA probation forbade the head coach from
                         making off-campus recruiting visits, placing phone calls to recruits, or
                         receiving performance-based salary increases.67
                    The investigation of Sampson's Oklahoma recruiting violations took place
                         at a time when the face of collegiate recruiting was changing. Technology,
                         particularly cell phones, and new media outlets, including text messaging,
                         Facebook, and Twitter, were beginning to play dominant roles in the
                         recruiting landscape. Just one week after the aforementioned sanctions were
                         announced by the NCAA, an investigative story by ESPN's "Outside
                         the Lines" portrayed Sampson and his staff as searching for new
                         methods of contact that were not affected by the imposed prohibition of
                         phone calls. This story did not document any infractions by Sampson or his
                         assistants, but it noted that the lack of a text-messaging ban had created
                         a significant loophole through which the head coach and staff could
                         continue recruiting.68 The NCAA would eventually move
                              
                              65"Sampson Named Hoosiers' Head
                                   Coach," Indiana University Athletic Media Relations News
                                   Release, March 29, 2006. In the wake of Sampson's firing,
                                   several journalists filed Freedom of Information Act requests for
                                   a series of IU athletic department emails pertaining to the
                                   action. In his April 3, 2008, blog for the Bloomington Herald Times, James Boyd reported that, in one
                                   of the obtained emails, former IU Alumni Association president
                                   Ken Beckley had expressed his opinion that support for the hire
                                   had extended beyond President Herbert to include one or more
                                   members of the university's board of trustees. James Boyd,
                                   "Beckley: At Least One Trustee and the President Led the
                                   Charge to Hire Sampson," April 3, 2008,
                                   http://blogs.heraldtimes online.co/iusp/?p= 1890.
                              66National Collegiate Athletic Association,
                                   "University of Oklahoma Public Infractions Report,"
                                   May25,2006,https://web l
                                   .ncaa.org/LSDBi/exec/miSearch?miSearchSubmit=publicReport&key
                                   =623&publicTerms=THIS%20PHRASE%20WILL%20NOT%20BE%20REPEATED.
                              67Ibid; National Collegiate Athletic
                                   Association, "Notice of Allegations to the President of
                                   Indiana University, Bloomington," February 8, 2008,
                                   http://assets.espn.go.com/ media/pdf/ 080213/
                                   ncb_noticeofallegations.pdf.
                              68John Barr and Lindsay Rovengo,
                                   "Outside the Lines: Text Appeal," May 31,
                                   2006,http://sports.
                                   espn.go.com/ncaa/news/story?id=2461072.
                         
                          to close this loophole, banning text
                         messaging in August 2007, and upholding that ban in January 2008.69 Even with text messages banned, technology
                         continued to affect recruiting, as direct messaging on Twitter and Facebook
                         were expressly allowed by the NCAA.70 Perhaps aware of
                         their lack of control over the new media, the NCAA developed a heightened
                         sensitivity to communication-related issues in recruiting.
                    At the very least, the ESPN report on Sampson's search for new ways to
                         contact recruits should have engendered caution within the IU athletic
                         department in relation to their new head coach's recruiting
                         activities. So too should the NCAA report itself, which noted, among other
                         things, that Sampson had fostered an environment of "deliberate 
                         non-compliance" in his program at Oklahoma.71 However,
                         this time period also stands as one of the least dangerous times in NCAA
                         history for large athletic departments who were engaging in rule-breaking
                         activities. As noted in several articles in the popular press at the time,
                         the NCAA had established a troubling track record of swiftly and
                         unequivocally punishing schools with small athletic departments, while
                         failing to punish large programs.72 The association was
                         also in the midst of a period that saw the lowest number of successfully
                         investigated and prosecuted major infractions cases against big-time
                         football or men's basketball programs since 1962.73 Sports journalists and collegiate sports insiders publicly
                         noted the lack of enforcement, a factor which may have contributed to a
                         feeling within big-time athletic programs, including that of IU, that the
                         NCAA was uninterested in pursuing major violations. Athletics
                         administrators at IU may also have been encouraged by the fact that
                         Sampson's violations at Oklahoma yielded no significant penalties from
                         the NCAA.
                    In October 2007, the IU athletic department announced that Kelvin Sampson and
                         his coaching staff might have violated the terms of 
                              69Katie Thomas, "N.C.A.A. Ban on
                                   Text-Messaging as Recruiting Tool Will Remain," January 13,
                                   2008,
                                   http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/13/sports/13ncaa.html.
                              70Ryan Corazza, "Twitter Enters
                                   Recruiting Fold," May 15, 2009,http://sports.espn.go.com/
                                   espnmag/story?id=4168518; Corazza, "Be Careful what you
                                   Tweet, NCAA Coaches," May 12, 2009,
                                   http://sports.espn.go.com/espnmag/story?id=4161341.
                              71Doug Lederman, "Oklahoma Basketball
                                   Violations Tarnish Indiana," May 26, 2006,
                                   http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2006/05/26/ncaa.
                              72Dan Wetzel, "Does the NCAA Play
                                   Favorites?" March 31, 2004, http://rivals.yahoo.com/ncaa/
                                   basketball/news?slug=dw-ncaafavorites.
                              73Dan Wetzel, "NCAA Naps During Golden
                                   Age of Cheating," September 24, 2008,
                                   http://rivals.yahoo.com/ncaa/football/news?slug=dw-ncaacheating092308.
                         
                          the probation established by the NCAA.
                         The department self-reported these violations to the NCAA, fired an
                         assistant coach involved in the potential violations, and placed additional
                         restrictions on Sampson and his staff.74 The situation
                         came to a head in February 2008, when the NCAA served the Indiana
                         University athletic department with a notice of allegations, highlighting
                         five major violations that had occurred during Sampson's tenure at the
                         school. These allegations included a failure on the part of Sampson and two
                         of his assistant coaches to comply with the terms of Indiana's
                         probation, a series of impermissible phone calls placed by Sampson and an
                         assistant coach after the probationary period had expired, an effort by
                         Sampson to knowingly provide false information to investigators from both
                         the IU athletic department and the NCAA, the usage of a non-authorized
                         phone line for recruiting purposes by an assistant coach, and impermissible
                         recruiting contact with a prospective student-athlete by Sampson and an
                         assistant coach.75 Approximately two weeks after the
                         notice of allegations from the NCAA, Indiana University negotiated a buyout
                         of Sampson's contract and accepted his resignation as men's
                         basketball coach.76
                    In May, Indiana University submitted a response to the NCAA's notice of
                         allegations, wherein the school essentially agreed with the
                         association's findings on each of the violations.77 Athletics Director Rick Greenspan, who was involved in hiring
                         Sampson, announced a restructuring of the athletic department in the wake
                         of these allegations. Following a hearing in June, the NCAA added an
                         additional charge, alleging that the IU athletic department failed to
                         properly monitor the men's basketball program.78
                         Greenspan subsequently announced that he would resign as athletic director
                         by the end of the year.79


                    
                         74Terry Hutchens, "IU: Intern Uncovered
                              Violations - School's Earlier Review had not Spotted Illegal
                              3-way phone calls," Indianapolis Star, October
                              16, 2007, Al.
                         75National Collegiate Athletic Association,
                              "Notice of Allegations to the President of Indiana University,
                              Bloomington," February 8, 2008,
                              http://assets.espn.go.com/media/pdf/080213/
                              ncb_noticeofallegations.pdf.
                         76ESPN, "Indiana, Sampson Reach $750,000
                              Settlement to Part Ways," February 23, 2008,
                              http://sports.espn.go.com/ncb/news/story?id=3258506.
                         77Indiana University, "Response to NCAA
                              Allegations," May 8, 2008, http://assets.espn.go.com/
                              media/pdf/080512/sampson_response_756p. pdf.
                         78Dana O'Neil, "Indiana Faces Another
                              NCAA Charge, Uncertain Future," June 27, 2008,
                              http://sports.espn.go.com/ncb/news/story?id=3462716.
                         79Pete DiPrimio, "IU names team to replace
                              AD Greenspan," The Fort Wayne News-Sentinel,
                              August 2, 2008.
                    


                    
                    On November 25, 2008, the NCAA Committee on Infractions publicly released its
                         report on violations that had occurred under the tenure of men's
                         basketball coach Kelvin Sampson. The penalties section of the report noted
                         that, while Indiana University had "an almost 50-year history free of
                         major infractions," the failure to effectively monitor Sampson and his
                         staff, despite the former's prior violations at Oklahoma, warranted
                         the imposition of penalties.80 These penalties included
                         a three-year period of probation, a one-scholarship reduction for
                         men's basketball, and limitations on recruiting activity. Furthermore,
                         the infractions committee imposed a five-year "show-cause"
                         penalty against Sampson, effectively barring him from meaningful employment
                         with an NCAA member institution during that time.
                    As it had been in the 1950s, the impact of NCAA and self-imposed sanctions on
                         Indiana University athletics was crippling. While the Sampson-era
                         violations affected only the basketball program, the resulting poor team
                         performance has been historic. In the aftermath of the NCAA sanctions, six
                         players either transferred to different schools or were dismissed for
                         disciplinary reasons, and two key veteran players left college for the NBA.
                         Senior D. J. White was selected as the twenty-ninth pick of the first round
                         of the National Basketball Association draft by the Detroit Pistons;
                         leading scorer Eric Gordon left after his freshman year and was drafted
                         seventh overall by the Los Angeles Clippers. When former Marquette coach
                         Tom Crean took over as head coach in 2008-2009, the team had only one
                         returning player with any significant playing experience at Indiana. In
                         that season, the team finished 6-25 overall and 1-17 in Big Ten
                         competition. In Crean's first three years as head coach, the team won
                         less than 30 percent of its games and twice finished last place in the
                         conference. The two-year span immediately following the sanctions contained
                         the least number, and lowest percentage, of wins in the history of
                         men's basketball at the school, and it marked the first stretch since
                         1968-1970 that the team's winning percentage had fallen below 34
                         percent. This period also represented the first time since the 1968-1970
                         stretch that the basketball program did not participate in a postseason
                         tournament for two consecutive years.




                    
                         80National Collegiate Athletic Association,
                              "Indiana University Public Infractions Report," November 25,
                              2008, p. 40, https://webl.ncaa.org/LSDBi/exec/miSearch?miSearchSubmit=
                              publicReport&key=660&publicTerms=THIS%20PHRASE%20WILL%20NOT%20BE%20
                              REPEATED.
                    


                    
                    The severity of the penalties was influenced in part by the occurrence of new
                         violations during a probationary period. The prior incidents did occur at a
                         different institution, but the NCAA noted that not only was IU fully aware
                         of these violations, by virtue of having sent representatives to the
                         Infractions Committee meeting for the Oklahoma case, but that the
                         university had also created a plan-based on these prior incidents-to
                         monitor Sampson and his staff. There are obvious parallels between the
                         infractions in the Sampson and Dickens cases: IU was fully conscious of
                         each coach's initial transgressions, yet was willing to vouch for his
                         supposed desire to play by the rules, ostensibly due to the school's
                         desire to field a winning program. Both cases unfolded within a period of
                         rampant cheating—without obvious ramifications—in college sports, as the
                         NCAA failed to enforce its rules successfully.81 It
                         requires no stretch of the imagination to assume that at least some of
                         Indiana's athletics decision-makers, in each case, may have felt that
                         the initial infractions were no worse than what was taking place at
                         competitors' institutions, and that Indiana's status as a Big Ten
                         member and leading athletic program would shield it from major
                         penalties.
                    In both cases, the NCAA's reaction to the violations initially appeared
                         justified, based upon the occurrence of repeat violations by the same
                         coaches within a short period of time. However, upon further reflection,
                         both sets of penalties appear to have exceeded the actual violations
                         committed. The penalty handed down in the football case unfairly targeted
                         the entire Indiana University athletic department, for no apparent reason
                         other than that the other programs, and their student-athletes, had the
                         misfortune of sharing an athletic department with the football program. It
                         is difficult to imagine a similar approach to enforcement passing the
                         public muster in today's collegiate sports environment.
                    In the case of the basketball violations, the NCAA saw fit to punish Indiana
                         heavily for the same types of actions that Sampson had committed at
                         Oklahoma, yet chose to hand out major infractions to IU because the actions
                         were now repetitive in nature. Legitimate questions can be raised as to
                         whether the NCAA's decision to pursue major violations stemmed from
                         the severity of the violations, or from the association's
                         embarrassment at having let Sampson off without major sanctions two years
                         prior. In either case, the punishment again seemed to outstrip the 
                              81Wetzel, "Does the NCAA Play
                                   Favorites?"
                         
                          violations committed by a wide margin,
                         especially considering the wide variety of uninvestigated and unprosecuted
                         incidents of grade fraud and illicit payments that dotted the collegiate
                         sport landscape at the time.82 As damaging as the
                         punishments were, the NCAA intimated that they could have been more severe,
                         but that the negative effects on the program had been considered when
                         constructing the sanctions. In fact, some media members seized on comments
                         made by the infractions committee that the "current condition of the
                         program" was a mitigating factor in the level of punishment given out,
                         noting that smaller schools that had been punished in that same time period
                         were given no such consideration.83
                    Indiana's punishments were still the most severe handed out to any major
                         college athletics program during that time period, and the lack of
                         enforcement involving other big-time programs calls into question whether
                         the NCAA's punishments were indeed appropriate, or were intended to
                         signify that the NCAA still "meant business" in its enforcement
                         aims.
                    Time and analysis have yielded a context for the IU athletic program's
                         violations of the late 1950s. The passage of time is creating a remarkably
                         similar context for Indiana's violations of the mid-2000s. In both
                         cases, the Indiana University athletic program's lack of institutional
                         control combined with a lack of NCAA-wide enforcement and shifting
                         recruitment policies to create a situation in which Indiana athletics
                         unexpectedly became a focal point of rules-breaking in college sports.


                    
                         82lbid.
                         83Dan Wetzel, "The NCAAs Predictable
                              Injustice," December 10, 2008, http://rivals.yahoo.com/
                              ncaa/basketball/news?slug= dw-indianal20908.
                    

               


               

               
                    A Life in Public History
                    A Conversation with John Herbst

                    As director of three of this state's most influential historical
                         organizations, John Herbst has been an unusually influential shaper of
                         historical practice in early twenty-first century Indiana. Before assuming
                         his current position as president and CEO of the Indiana Historical Society
                         (IHS) in 2006, Herbst held the same title at the Indiana State Museum,
                         Historic Sites and Foundation. He preceded that experience, in turn, at
                         Conner Prairie in Noblesville, where his five-year term as president was
                         marked by an administrative struggle that ultimately resulted in the
                         historic site's independence from Earlham College, whose trustees had
                         until that time controlled the Conner Prairie Endowment.
                    Herbst had arrived at Conner Prairie in 1997 with a busy and successful
                         career in museums and public history already under his belt. His
                         professional accomplishments began in the history classroom of a
                                   Paterson,
                                   New Jersey, high school in
                         1974; they expanded first at the Paterson Museum and then at the New Jersey
                         Historical Society, where for four years he served as director of
                         education. In 1983, Herbst returned to Paterson to establish and then
                         direct the American Labor Museum.
                    Herbst went on to gain national recognition for his leadership of the
                         Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania from 1986 to 1997, a period in
                         which that institution enhanced its profile and moved to its current
                         quarters in the Heinz History Center, a converted ice warehouse in downtown
                                   Pittsburgh. A short
                         time after the center's opening, he made the move to
                                   Indiana, where he has since resided.

                    

                    
                         John Herbst in the "You Are There 1924: Tool Guys and Tin
                              Lizzies" exhibit. The 1917 Ford Model T is part of a living
                              recreation of a 1924 photograph of a Hartford
                                   City, Indiana, repair
                              shop for the society's Indiana Experience.
                         Courtesy Indiana Historical Society
                    




                    We spoke with Herbst in his IHS office in late August 2010. During a
                         conversation of about two hours' duration, he reflected on changes in
                         the history and museum professions, on the challenges of institutional
                         leadership, and on the things that made Indiana unique. The transcript of
                         our talk, which follows, has been lightly edited for length and
                         clarity.

                    IMH Can you tell us about a bit about your career—in
                         particular about your professional and personal ties to other places before
                         you came here to Indiana?

                    JH I've been blessed in that the role of the
                         institutions I've served has been to help define place—to identify a
                         region's characteristics and what makes it special. That part of my
                         career has been extremely rewarding, and I've been lucky to be on the
                         scene in places at critical moments. My  museum career started in Paterson, New
                              Jersey, in the last gasp of the textile and the
                         machine and locomotive industries that had been so important to it. I was
                         fortunate to be in a position to go in and document the last vestiges of
                         the silk industry. That was very exciting: my Dad's family were German
                         immigrants who worked in the Paterson silk mills and got involved in the
                         labor difficulties there, and who did all the things that immigrants do to
                         survive and eventually to flourish.
                    Then I went to Pittsburgh, which
                         shares an industrial and ethnic theme with Paterson. I was there at the very point
                         that the steel industry was disappearing, and I participated in documenting
                         the Homestead steelworks and in interpreting the steel industry and other
                         emblematic businesses. During my time there, we took in corporate
                         collections from the Mellon Bank, US Steel, and H.J. Heinz—the companies
                         that, together, really influenced the Pittsburgh area. But we also worked hard to
                         document the ethnic groups that worked in the industries, and we were there
                         at a very good time for rescuing and undergirding the sense of ethnic
                         identity that a lot of these groups had. I will always consider that to be
                         another privileged experience.

                    IMH When you go back to New
                                   Jersey or western Pennsylvania now, what do you
                         see in those places? What's changed since you were there, and how has
                         history—or historical awareness—made a difference?

                    JH In Paterson, the people whose parents or grandparents
                         worked in the textile industry are aging—I'm not sure how much the
                         younger generation has a sense of why it's called Silk City. Almost
                         forty years of urban challenges have not strengthened or advanced the
                         institutions that care for Paterson's history very much, and
                         that's kind of disappointing to see.
                    I like to think that Pittsburgh has a very strong institution now that is
                         capable of taking care of history. When I started there, the Historical
                         Society of Western Pennsylvania—while old—could not handle the collections
                         it had, and could not be aggressive about new collecting. At the same time,
                         people were afraid of losing their history, afraid it wasn't being
                         taken care of, that it was being literally trashed and destroyed. Many
                         groups did not feel that the historical society belonged to them. In the
                         intervening years, establishing the Heinz History Center, we built up a
                         cultural institution that became a major player in the city—and that had a
                         sufficient level of staffing to be stable and to manage the components a
                         historical museum needs to do its work in the community. I would hope that
                         people now feel there is a home for Pittsburgh  history—one that they can trust and depend
                         on, and one that depends on community ownership.

                    IMH How do you make the people of a community
                         "own" their historical society, when they haven't
                         previously?

                    JH We formed advisory committees of different ethnic
                         groups, and we began to collect their materials. Then, before the History
                         Center opened, we introduced a number of groundbreaking social history
                         exhibits that allowed us to address the history of those groups for the
                         first time. One, Pittsburgh Rhythms: The Music of a Changing
                              City, allowed us to deal with all kinds of groups and their music
                         up to the advent of radio. We did another one, called Homestead: Story of a Steel Town, which also reflected the
                         history of a lot of different types of people and the emblematic steel
                         industry. Eventually, through these efforts, when we opened the History
                         Center we not only had touched on many different groups of people that
                         lived there, but we also had specific exhibits: one on the Jewish community
                         and their philanthropic efforts, and another, From Paese to
                         Pittsburgh, on Italians in western Pennsylvania. In our permanent
                         exhibit we touched almost every community. I had a Slovak Lutheran woman go
                         through during the first week. She said, "As small as our community
                         is, I got to see a membership card for the Slovak Lutheran Benevolent
                         Society!" She was so excited, because her parents had been members of
                         that benevolent society and she got to see a little piece of herself.
                         People felt it legitimized their presence in what was a very class- and
                         ethnically stratified city.

                    IMH So, when people say they want to "see
                         themselves" in museums, do they still identify themselves in ethnic or
                         religious terms?

                    JH There is a point early in the immigration and
                         naturalization process at which people are too busy to seek out that kind
                         of thing. In my own family, the newcomers were busy establishing a new life
                         for themselves. But after people have been here for a while—say, the
                         children or the grandchildren of the newcomers—they become very interested
                         in the historical context and the stories that one might tell, based on
                         kinship ties that go all the way back. Many years ago,
                         "genealogy" was a dirty word for historians, but it's really
                         come into its own. People have gone beyond just looking for the next set of
                         dates of marriages, births, and deaths. So you really see a resurgence of
                         people's interest in ethnicity and  family history, and in the history of immigration, settlement, and so
                         forth. We just had our Midwestern Roots conference, and I was struck by who
                         was in the audience and the kinds of questions that they asked. Immigration
                         occurred 100 to 150 years ago, yet many of the boomer generation feel a
                         strong personal connection to their ancestors.

                    IMH Is there still something about the melting pot story
                         that makes us want to embrace both the Americans we become and these other
                         people who we once were?

                    JH I think so. There is a quest to find yourself, wherever
                         that leads you. It's not done anymore—as it was in the late nineteenth
                         and early twentieth century—to search for noble ancestors and connections
                         so that you'd gain social status. People are just as interested in the
                         murder story, or the story of why somebody left the old country, or all the
                         other dramatic stories that are not associated with class or prestige. They
                         just want to know who they are. So the idea of "seeing
                         themselves" in our museums and in our collections is still an enduring
                         one. We've gotten much, much better at it, and much more inclusive,
                         but I think it's still a challenge—both programmatically and in terms
                         of collections.

                    IMH How do you get people to identify with particular
                         collections, especially given the standardization and the globalization
                         that characterize our lives today?

                    JH Well, it's true that many of the things that people
                         use are the same things that they use everywhere. Mass production has had a
                         unifying effect on how people live, and what you find in various households
                         is not unique to one or another ethnicity. But still, I think there are
                         differences. It's not that a bowl from Kmart, itself, really speaks to
                         ethnic groups: it's what they're doing with it that we need to
                         document. And while we're very open to collecting things that document
                         events that have already occurred, we're not as good at going out
                         there and documenting things as they happen. That's a matter of
                         resources, more than anything. So much of collecting has been
                         exhibits-driven: you decide you're going to do a program on this,
                         hence you go out and collect within a community whose materials have not
                         been collected, and that's the reason you begin to collect. Hopefully,
                         you form some lasting ties with people so that a stream of documentation
                         continues in. But tying collection to exhibitions is a very expensive
                         endeavor: you have to have the  money
                         to do something worthwhile. To say, "We have a gap in our collection
                         regarding the Mexican community," on the other hand, requires a less
                         extensive commitment of resources than an exhibition, but even mounting a
                         collection effort can still be a problem.

                    IMH We've been talking about standardization, but of
                         course there's also a lot of variety that remains in our culture
                         today—from one region to another, for example. As you said, your own roots
                         are in New Jersey. You found your first work close
                         to home and then you went to Pittsburgh, which shares some characteristics,
                         in terms of its people and its industries. So what did Indiana represent
                         for you before you came here?

                    JH It took me a while to get over the topography, and to
                         understand how it might actually work to create more of a defined identity
                         for people. The contrast was Pittsburgh, where a very complex topography
                         retained and helped to protect ethnic communities and historic
                         neighborhoods, and tended to discourage people from moving out of the place
                         where their families had settled. I felt that this was the reason why it is
                         hard to identify ethnic neighborhoods in Indianapolis. There were ethnic
                         neighborhoods, but retaining them has been kind of impossible for
                                   Indianapolis, because
                         of the topography. Also, homogeneity is a much stronger force in the
                         Midwest than it is in the East. You see that in ethnic identity; you see it
                         in food. Take bread for instance—bread is so different on the East Coast,
                         where it reflects ethnic groups and backgrounds. On the positive side,
                                   Indianapolis is a
                         very egalitarian city, where people are judged and accepted on merit.
                         It's not a very socially stratified place—which I mean as a
                         compliment. The city is open to accepting and embracing newcomers and the
                         best efforts on everybody's part. You don't have to be connected
                         socially, which was a big thing in Pittsburgh.

                    IMH And historically? Do you feel like the story of this
                         place is quite different from the other places where you have worked?

                    JH Yes, I do, actually. The wide-open space has provided a
                         context for people to achieve here, and make a life for themselves.
                         That's very different from the ruggedness of the
                         Pittsburgh area,
                         which made it difficult for people to get along and which fostered very
                         top-down leadership. I really do think there's something about
                         midwestern values, and the egalitarian spirit of this region, that's
                         very distinct from the East Coast.


                    
                    IMH What's your impression of the state of
                         Indiana
                         history as an industry-such as it is? Historical work goes on in all
                         ninety-two counties, as you know. Is it healthy, or is it suffering from
                         the economic downturn that's affected all cultural institutions?

                    JH The good news is that we have very fine institutions in
                         a number of places. Here in the state capital, we partner a great deal with
                         the State Museum, because they collect the artifacts and we collect
                         archival material. Like us, because of the recent serious economic
                         downturn, they have been reduced somewhat in size, but not really yet in
                         scope. Both are still offering the same kind of services that we had, and
                         we are very fortunate in that way. The state has supported the State
                         Museum, while we've developed primarily through philanthropy.
                         We're blessed in this state by the tradition of philanthropy,
                         especially the Lilly family, and now others—in our case the Glick family,
                         whose recent support has allowed us to expand during hard times. But I
                         think the presence of a major philanthropic force like the Lilly family in
                         a sense took up the slack that in other states had to be borne by the state
                         governments. In both Pennsylvania and
                                   New Jersey, government
                         support was until recently a major force in establishing organizations. And
                         actually, a lot of money was available in the last thirty years to allow
                         museums to bootstrap themselves and become more professional. We
                         haven't had that kind of support in this state for endeavors like
                         that. Tourism is not as valued as it is, say, in the other two states where
                         I've worked, where it is a big industry. We just haven't had very
                         much in the way of support for heritage tourism here.

                    IMH Isn't it partly a question of how Hoosiers view
                         the role of government, in comparison with residents of these other
                         states?

                    JH Yes. There is a small-government, low-tax attitude here.
                         But to bring us full circle, New
                              Jersey, New York,
                                   Pennsylvania, and other
                         states I'm familiar with have now all seen tremendous cutbacks in
                         government support. Other midwestern states that had different attitudes
                         toward government than Indiana, like
                                   Minnesota and Wisconsin, have also suffered greatly from this
                         economic downturn.

                    IMH Let's turn from region to venue. You've
                         directed historic sites, museums, living-history centers, and now a
                         historical organization built upon a library and archive. Does each present
                         a different challenge for you?

                    
                    JH The issue of facilities has faced me in multiple sites.
                         In Pittsburgh, we were in a 1913,
                         15,000-square-foot building that had filled up in the 1920s and was badly
                         designed for a public history mission. We had to have a new history center
                         if we were going to take care of history in the right way. It took a
                         ten-year effort, door-to-door, to create the 160,000-square-foot Heinz
                         History Center. The Conner Prairie Museum Center was such a poorly planned
                         and dysfunctional building, and we worked hard to make it more effective.
                         The State Museum had already built a new facility that was designed for
                         visitors and for exhibition and display, although we did tinker with the
                         friendliness of it. Here at the Indiana Historical Society, our challenge
                         is to take a monumental building and better tune it to let the public use
                         more of it—and not just the library reading room.

                    IMH At a more personal level, is there something
                         fundamentally different about working in a historic site—at Conner Prairie,
                         the farm itself; in Pittsburgh, the icehouse; in Paterson the private house
                         that told the city's story—and working in a building meant simply to
                         contain historical materials?

                    JH I was very fond of the building in
                         Pittsburgh—not so
                         much because it was tied into the industrial story as because it was a big
                         ice warehouse, and you could adaptively reuse the interior in whatever way
                         you wanted. It became a dramatic, classic building that I think will really
                         hold up over the years. We had looked at newly constructed buildings, ten
                         or twenty years old—like the State Museum in Harrisburg—and just felt,
                         "Gosh, those buildings don't look so good after however many
                         years." You can make a lot of mistakes with new architecture when
                         you're really trying to convey a historical agenda. In the case of the
                         Heinz History Center, I picked the building, I helped design every inch of
                         it, and I was intimately involved with all decisions made about it—so I got
                         what I wanted in the end, pretty much. Directing Conner Prairie was very
                         enjoyable apart from Earlham. I guess one thing I don't miss is how
                         the weather influenced attendance, which is something you have to
                         constantly be worried about for half of the year. Otherwise, that was a
                         unique site, staff, and product, and it really did improve tremendously
                         while I was there. But as far as different types of settings go, I think
                         the Indiana Historical Society, and what it does, offers a fantastic
                         situation for a professional doing public history. There are so many
                         wonderful things about this institution.


                    
                    
                         John Herbst and dignitaries at the dedication for the Heinz History
                              Center in Pittsburgh,
                                        Pennsylvania, 1996.
                              Herbst led the Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania during the
                              building of and relocation to the new center.
                         Courtesy John Herbst
                    



                    IMH What about the visitor's experience of these
                         different sorts of sites? Do people learn differently, according to whether
                         they are in a historic site or in a box that contains historic materials
                         and experiences? Is there something fundamentally different that goes on at
                         Conner Prairie, for example, as you look out over the fields?

                    JH Our flagship word there was "authenticity."
                         Setting it outdoors, and having the weather and the seasons become part of
                         the experience, lets people connect viscerally to what others went through.
                         But in the end, no matter what your setting is, authenticity applies for
                         all historical organizations. You have to capitalize on whatever your
                         environment is and what your collections are.

                    IMH What drove you to make the considerable investment
                         required to create a tactile historical experience here at IHS, in a
                         building that hadn't been built for anything like it?

                    JH We call it the Indiana Experience.
                         Part of it is "You Are There," and part of it is
                         "Destination Indiana." Both grew out of a sense that, as  wonderful a facility as this is, and
                         as well as we maintain collections that we can share with researchers, it
                         was an awfully large place to have only a small part available to the
                         public for the purposes of discovering Indiana history. We started with the
                         fact that the building could do more to connect the public to the past.

                    IMH Did the board understand that you felt this way when
                         you were first interviewed for the job?

                    JH The ideas really developed after I was hired and took a
                         hard look at the situation. I truly wasn't looking for an
                         institutional sea change at this point in my career—I thought I had already
                         climbed a lot of big mountains. But when I got here and began assessing
                         what our challenges were as an institution, we saw that our building was
                         under-used, and that people didn't know what was housed here. The
                         public didn't understand our archival collections, and the average
                         person did not get to share them in a meaningful way. Further, as an
                         organization blessed with an income from our endowment, we really
                         hadn't had to go to the public for community support—and that actually
                         was a negative, in terms of our long-term success. It's a healthy
                         thing to have your community invest in you—not just from a pure cash income
                         basis, but for the sense of involvement and value that they place on the
                         institution. We could do a lot of wonderful things before we built this
                         building, but not all of them were wise, and they seldom depended on public
                         input or involvement. So I think we were maybe a little out of touch in
                         some ways, even though we had done fantastic work with county historical
                         societies, and in publishing, and so many other important areas. That,
                         basically, summarizes my motivation: the building could do more for us, we
                         needed to find new ways to share our collections with a broader public, and
                         we needed to broaden public support of the institution.
                    So we got our staff and board together and we started to brainstorm: What
                         could we uniquely offer visitors that did not compete with or duplicate
                         other institutions in town—particularly our near neighbor and collaborator
                         the State Museum? What new ideas could we come up with to share our
                         collections? The components of the Indiana Experience are
                         what we came up with. When we started off I said, "Let's look at
                         our absence of artifacts as not a negative but a positive. We are
                         artifact-free—let's look at that as an advantage. We don't have
                         to worry about having artifacts behind cases or ropes or not touching
                         anything." That certainly 
                         
                              An interpreter and a visiting student in the "You Are There
                                   1914: The Violin Maker Upstairs" exhibit. The society
                                   currently features three exhibits allowing visitors to step into
                                   a photograph or an event from Indiana's past.
                              Courtesy Indiana Historical Society
                          was liberating, and it led us to some of the ideas for time
                         travel that we do in "Destination Indiana" and "You Are
                         There."

                    IMH What are your reactions so far? What's exceeded
                         your expectations, in terms of transformations in the building?

                    JH What's exceeded our expectations is the level of
                         engagement that we are able to obtain with visitors. The photographs that
                         you pass through as you go into "You Are There" have turned out
                         to be a big success—very provocative for people. They're rating it
                         very highly. Likewise, the "Destination Indiana" program turned
                         out so wonderfully. In the beginning, I challenged the staff:
                         "Let's do a time travel program where you can travel to a place
                         or explore a topic in the past and use our collections to do that."
                         The way they actualized this has been so fantastic that it appeals to
                         people of all ages. It has unlimited potential for us to put new journeys
                         on there—there is an infinite number of possibilities. We're  very happy with that. On the other
                         hand, I knew it was going to be a challenge to establish ourselves as a
                         destination attraction. The building was open for ten years before we
                         introduced the Indiana Experience and while we were used
                         by the public for lots of purposes, it really wasn't for history. Our
                         program attendance was relatively small. So we are having to put a lot of
                         effort and resources into advertising and PR and marketing to make sure
                         that we have an audience for this. But I see this as something that's
                         being built up by word-of-mouth and social networking as well as by
                         traditional media: we're giving people such a good experience when
                         they're here that they're telling others and making us a must-see
                         attraction. It's going to take a while for us to build up attendance
                         to a level that I think is exemplary.

                    IMH Has it had an effect upon how people view the
                         institution?

                    JH Tremendous financial support certainly is one measure of
                         the satisfaction that people have with us. Corporate and individual support
                         are up; we started our campaign three years ago, and we've raised over
                         $17 million so far. Secondly, our related sources of revenue—our annual
                         fund, corporate sponsorship, and other areas—have gone up significantly. So
                         I think people are excited about what we're doing. And they're
                         financially supporting the endeavor.
                    IMH How about the everyday user, the visitor?

                    JH Our visitor evaluations show a high degree of
                         satisfaction with the Indiana Experience. We did a public
                         awareness study in January 2009, right after we had prototyped some of our
                         ideas, and we'll be doing another in January 2011. That should tell us
                         a lot about whether we really moved the needle on general public perception
                         of who we are and what we do.

                    IMH One of the striking things about your career—and public
                         history more generally—is how often it courts conflict, even at times when
                         we might not expect it. You've been involved in sites that documented
                         the history of conflict—for example, the labor scene in cities like
                                   Paterson and
                                   Pittsburgh—but
                         you've also been involved in very contemporary conflict in
                         institutions where you've worked. What is it that generates such
                         conflict or tensions in historical organizations—does it come down to
                         competing points of view about history, or is it really about bottom-line   questions concerning money and
                         real estate—the day-to-day stuff that creates conflict in the business
                         world, as well?

                    JH One of the greatest services that the IHS provides to
                         other historical organizations in the state is our local history services
                         department. It's constantly counseling boards and staff statewide
                         about institutional growth and development and conflict. All
                         not-for-profits and all museums have this, depending on where they are in
                         the evolutionary cycle. I think it has less to do with whether a historical
                         organization tells a story of class or economic conflict, and much more to
                         do with how you run organizations. One issue I ran into in my career is
                         what I like to call "founderitis," which is a terrible disease
                         afflicting a non-professional who seeks to found a museum and then cannot
                         part from it, and will do whatever he or she can to control it. Founderitis
                         has severely hindered a number of organizations. Or it has provoked
                         conflict in organizations that have to grow and move on and dramatically
                         break with their founder. It's often very painful for everybody
                         involved.
                    The conflict whose resolution I'm proudest of is what happened at Conner
                         Prairie. It was a conflict that had been brewing for thirty years between
                         Earlham College—which thought it was the owner of the museum, but it turned
                         out was the trustee of a public charitable trust—and the community-based
                         board that was running Conner Prairie. My part in resolving the conflict
                         was, first, to identify the fact that there was a glass ceiling over the
                         museum, as far as fundraising and community support (because of
                         Earlham's control of the finances); second, to point out some very
                         unfair practices that were going on with regard to the financial
                         arrangements between the college and the museum regarding the Lilly gifts;
                         and thirdly, to say to the board, "I think this would be important for
                         you to resolve, and you should not make protecting me a factor in working
                         to resolve this." Prior CEOs had worried that a push to resolve this
                         might result in something happening to them and their job. My predecessor,
                         Marcia Semmel, was not there a long time, but she had a lot of interesting
                         plans, and the board had gotten excited about the potential of Conner
                         Prairie. I came in as an actualizer of that potential, and I ran smack into
                         Earlham's control of the museum and the fact that they were really
                         most interested in the income that was available to them through this
                         relationship with the museum.


                    IMH You paid a high price for your "proud
                         resolution."

                    
                    JH Yes. I have to admit to having fallen in love with
                         different institutions that I served in my career, and Conner Prairie was
                         one place that I held in a very special regard, which is why I wanted to
                         see this get done. While it turned out really terrific for the museum, I
                         wasn't able to go back and that was a disappointment for me.

                    IMH So you've seen a number of institutions at a point
                         of crisis or change.

                    JH Throughout my career, I have faced the challenge of
                         either building an institution from scratch or leading it through a major
                         transformation. My work at Pittsburgh was a product of being very young
                         and ambitious—not personally ambitious but institutionally ambitious. I was
                         convinced that the Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania was the
                         organization to take the leadership in creating a history center for
                                   Pittsburgh, and that no
                         other organization's institutional mission fit that goal. But it
                         wasn't easy. After we had worked for five years to move this idea
                         along, we hired a consultant to prepare a report on the potential of a
                         capital campaign. And while I personally got high marks, the consultant
                         wrote that people were very negative about our organization's chances
                         in pulling it off. But I looked at that report, and I said, "Well,
                         we've got to use this as a blueprint of what we have to tackle to get
                         this done." And by the end of my time there, the Historical Society of
                         Western Pennsylvania was a totally different organization. To go from five
                         employees to ninety, to go from a 15,000-square-foot building to a
                         160,000-square-foot building, from an operating budget of a 
                         couple-hundred-thousand dollars to $4 million over a ten-year period was an
                         amazing transformation. We faced so many brick walls over those
                         years—we'd hit one, then go around it, then hit another—it was really
                         something to be involved in. A lot of people didn't want it to happen,
                         but others came along and did a great deal to make it happen. Ten years is
                         a long time in somebody's career to see that type of process
                         through.

                    IMH Sounds like you miss it.

                    JH Well, I do have an affinity for Pittsburgh. But I got
                         such a great experience there that it has certainly helped me in the rest
                         of my career. And it brought me to Indianapolis, which I love. Conner
                         Prairie was, of course, viewed as a very difficult situation, impossible to
                         resolve as it was not in Earlham College's financial interest to
                         resolve it. Earlham had  to fire the
                         community board of directors and me to avoid a resolution. I think that I
                         played a major role in doing so, but I have to credit Berkley Duck, the
                         chairman of the board at the time. He was an exemplary leader, and he lent
                         so much courage, credibility, and energy to that whole messy battle.
                         Berkley reconstituted the board as a not-for-profit called "Save the
                         Prairie" and he made the legal arguments to the Attorney General that
                         resolved the issue. No one could have replaced him, in my view. He was one
                         of those unique individuals who appears on the scene at just the right
                         time, gets involved, and has a unique tool bag to fix the problem,
                         including the backbone to see it through.

                    IMH Let's turn to the future: What do you see as
                         breakthrough models, or exemplars, in historical practice—things that
                         either represent the way things are already going, or that in some way you
                         could imagine a future generation taking advantage of?

                    JH Let me address that by posing another question
                         that's more direct to this institution: someone might ask, "Do
                         the things that you have just implemented—at a fairly substantial price
                         tag—represent where you see the IHS in five years?" What I would say
                         to that is, "This happens to be what we're doing right now, using
                         technology that's available to us at the moment—the fog screen element
                         and hologram for "You Are There," the technology for time travel
                         in "Destination Indiana." But while I'm pleased and excited
                         and proud of all we've been doing, in seven years or ten years we may
                         be doing something very different. Twenty or thirty years ago, I
                         couldn't have imagined the technique of stepping into a photo as we do
                         in "You Are There" or the technology for "Destination
                         Indiana." But we started "You Are There" with the idea that
                         many people who have looked at the historical photographs have thought,
                         "Boy, I would love to step in there and be part of that—to see how it
                         really was." That was a kind of inspiration for us in working this
                         out. But I don't think we could've imagined stepping literally
                         into the photographs, and we certainly couldn't have imagined a
                         technology that would get us to "Destination Indiana." Which
                         means that right now, we probably can't imagine new things on the
                         horizon, especially given the way technology is so rapidly changing.

                    IMH What really got you there was not the medium itself but the 
                        long-standing desire to step into the past, right? Are there other long-standing
                         instincts that draw people to history?
                    



                    
                         John Herbst, aged 22, at the start of a career in public history in 1974
                              as a new teacher at Paterson Catholic High School, New Jersey.
                         Courtesy John Herbst
                    


                    JH Yes. The technology is just the means to get people to
                         realize that desire. I did a presentation, using clips from books, movies
                         and television, about time travel and popular culture. It is several
                         hundred years old or more, this fascination with going back in time.

                    IMH When you look at the history of museums, you see many
                         that have made what they thought, at the time, was an unprecedented step
                         into the past. Streetscapes like they have in the Detroit Historical
                         Museum, which now seem so old and quaint, were wonders of their day.

                    JH As a child, I remember being romanced by the diorama of
                         New Amsterdam at the Museum of the City of New York. I just thought that
                         was the coolest thing to see the city in that way. When I first started
                         teaching, I had a photograph of that view that you could put together in
                         overlapping pieces, and I displayed it around the perimeter of the
                         classroom.



                    
                    I also remember a school book called America, My Home,
                         about one family in upstate New York, from colonial times to World War II.
                         I grew up in a blue-collar family, and we didn't have a lot of books
                         in our house, but my uncle had left his school books, including this one,
                         in the attic. Each period began with a view of the same place—first, a
                         cabin on the river overlooking the falls, then a community around a mill,
                         and then around factories and businesses. The family house remained there—
                         until it was made into a museum at the very end. That book mesmerized me. I
                         read it a million times, and later realized I was attracted to any book
                         that showed the same place over a period of time or the story of the family
                         over time.

                    IMH When you were a child, and when you subsequently
                         started studying history, did you imagine yourself on a career path like
                         the one that has brought you to Indiana?

                    JH When I was an undergrad majoring in history, I was
                         focused on being a high school teacher; I intended to teach social studies
                         for grades eight through twelve. I had no idea about museum work. I had
                         visited tons of historic sites and knew people who worked there, but I
                         really was focused on teaching. Then after three years of teaching, a job
                         opportunity came along at the city museum in Paterson, and because I'd
                         worked on local history projects with my students, I was able to enter the
                         field without museum training. I then did some training in curatorial work
                         and I got my masters degree later on. So really, it was very much by
                         accident. The only deliberate part was the time spent with my junior
                         historians' club, which I started as a branch of the New Jersey
                         Historical Society. I very deliberately thought, "This is how I'm
                         going to spend unpaid time and summers: working on history projects with
                         the kids." None of it was compensated; it was just something I wanted
                         to do. Once when my wife complained about the time I was spending, my
                         father-in-law—who was a teacher—said to her, "Let him do this, you
                         never know where this might lead." She's a dedicated teacher
                         herself, but here I was spending my summers hauling kids around to do
                         research all over Paterson in a derelict '67 Dodge with some doors
                         that wouldn't open and some windows that wouldn't roll down. He
                         was a visionary who said, "You never know where this could lead."
                         It led me here. 

               
               
               
                    REVIEWS




                    FARMfood Green Living with Chef Daniel Orr By Daniel Orr
                                   (Bloomington: Indiana
                         University Press, 2009. Pp. xiv, 259. Illustrations, index. Paperbound,
                         $29.95.)

                    Cafe Indiana Cookbook By Joanne Raetz Stuttgen and Jolene
                         Ketzenberger (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 2010. Pp. xi,
                         141. Bibliography. Paperbound, $24.95.)

                    Indiana Cooks! Great Restaurant Recipes for the Home Kitchen By
                         Christine Barbour and Scott Feickert (Bloomington: Indiana University
                         Press, 2005. Pp. xiv, 144. Illustrations, map, list of sources, index.
                         $29.95.)


                    What do three recent Indiana cookbooks have to say
                         about Indiana history? What can contemporary regional cookbooks tell
                         historians about state and local history? When studying historic community
                         (fundraiser) cookbooks, I look for the history of the organization, what
                         the recipes and the organization suggest about the foodways of the
                         book's place and time, the intention behind the publication (in
                         addition to raising funds), how the recipe contributors present the
                         recipes, and what elements are included in addition to the recipes. Each
                         book reviewed here contributes to Hoosier history in a different way by
                         documenting three kinds of restaurants and chefs on the
                         twenty-first-century Indiana landscape. Two books compile recipes and other
                         information from restaurants that are new on the scene, historically
                         speaking, and one documents small-town cafes that have a longer history to
                         consider. Histories of restaurants and other aspects of food history are
                         not always easy to find, though some midwestern states have published
                         worthwhile titles like Food in Missouri: A Cultural Stew
                         (1994) and Minnesota Eats Out: An  Illustrated History (2003).
                         Eateries that survive to a big anniversary year may produce or commission a
                         history, but that too is rare. They are more likely to publish a cookbook
                         than a history. Hence this review.
                    FARMfood: Green Living with Chef Daniel Orr is a big square
                         book, full of recipes and photographs created by the chef, that lives up to
                         its subtitle with sections on gardening season by season, composting,
                         butterfly- and hummingbird-friendly planting, and edible flowers (beginning
                         with dandelion greens). The book organizes its recipes in an unusual way,
                         beginning with spice blends and continuing with breakfast, soups,
                         sandwiches, drinks, snacks, pies, starters (mostly salads), suppers,
                         vegetables, desserts, and sauces. Orr writes about food and gardening, food
                         and his travels, and food and friends made along the way. He weaves his
                         delicious-sounding and often unusual recipes into a story that tells
                         readers about who he is and the often exotic paths he has traveled to
                         arrive at his Bloomington restaurant. Orr's recipes, to this upper
                         midwesterner, reflect a bit more of the southern roots of
                         Indiana cooking
                         than its Great Lakes aspect, though the nods to fried smelt, walleye, and
                         lake perch point north.
                    Cafe Indiana Cookbook is a labor of love of another kind, a
                         collaboration between a folklorist and a food writer who had written an
                         earlier book on the state's small-town cafes. It describes a different
                         kind of eating, one in which breakfast is the biggest meal of the day and
                         local men are the primary diners, followed by vacationers, with local women
                         the smallest group of customers. The recipes are the kind cafe customers
                         order and eat week after week, year after year, even when the chefs may
                         wish they would be willing to try something new. The word "local"
                         may mean something different here than in the other two books. Many
                         activities for local benefit are planned over coffee and food in these
                         community gathering places.
                    The book highlights cafes from towns around the state that draw on a number
                         of ethnic traditions, as the preface helpfully (though briefly) describes.
                         People who study community cookbooks frequently argue about whether we can
                         know if families really ate the dishes for which they contributed recipes.
                         In the case of the Cafe Indiana cookbook, readers know
                         that those who frequent the cafes within really do eat the dishes whose
                         recipes are given. These recipes do not tell us what the diners eat at
                         home, but they get close. Consider a continuum that extends from home
                         cooking, dishes taken to potlucks (or church pitch-ins), small-town cafes
                         and modest city eateries, cafeterias, taverns, and roadhouses, to more
                         expensive restaurants and big fancy restaurants. (Fast food is not on this
                         continuum.) Cafe cooking is often pretty close to what customers eat at
                         home.
                    The preface nods at ways Indiana's geography affects which foods  are grown where in the state—this
                         would have been interesting to read more about. (For a handsome and
                         informative map that gives a more detailed idea of what is grown where,
                         visit the Indiana Humanities Council's "Food for Thought"
                         blog at: http://www.indianahumanities.org /pdf/Indiana_State_Fair_Food_Map.pdf.)
                         
                    Cafe Indiana is also potentially useful to
                                   Indiana historians and others interested in
                         the state's history because it describes the audience for these dishes
                         as well as the ingredients and the chefs. This cookbook was also the only
                         one of the three to discuss foods I had never heard of, like the German
                         sausage called goetta, and topics like the multiple origins of a common
                         poor-people's food like cornmeal mush. Here it is traced to
                         Appalachian and Pennsylvania Dutch migrants to Indiana. In Minnesota it often comes from South
                         Slavic and Italian roots, and regionally is associated with the
                         state's Iron Ranges, where it is called polenta. There may be cafes in
                         the Upper Midwest where one can find Swiss heritage eier datch (egg
                         pancakes served with apple butter and maple syrup) but I've not found
                         any—yet. I am familiar with apple butter primarily as a homemade product
                         that may be judged annually at county and state fairs, but in
                         Indiana it
                         seems to be a food made for public consumption as well. Most of the apple
                         butter I have eaten in my life comes from an Iowa friend who uses a
                         delicious family recipe to share with her friends, so it is home food for
                         me.
                    The question of noodles versus dumplings is one of several indications of a
                         culinary divide between northern and southern Indiana. The differences were enlightening to
                         read about, as were choices about pinto or Great Northern beans and
                         southern-style cornbread or northern-style. Encountering a rolled dumpling
                         for the first time, I would probably think it was a noodle. Dropped
                         dumplings, on the other hand, I am familiar with, having grown up with
                         German dumplings on chicken soup and beef stew. Czech ones I have
                         encountered during Minnesota dining adventures.
                                   Minnesota's Norwegian dumplings might
                         take Indianans some getting used to. Made of potatoes and called klub or kumle, they might or might not
                         have a piece of sausage or salty ham in the middle. They might be cooked in
                         pig's blood. However they are made, they usually are
                         the meal, not an accompaniment. In some small-town cafes in western
                                   Minnesota, klub is served
                         once a week, the same day each week. No one would mistake klub for a noodle.
                    Another difference between the cafes and the local-ingredient-driven eateries
                         is the willingness of those who feed many people all day every day to use
                         shortcuts like brown gravy mix and frozen mixed vegetables. Unlike the Diners, Drive-Ins, and Dives celebrated on the Food
                         Network, the book's recipes reveal that not every  small-town cafe chef insists on making every
                         part of every dish from scratch.
                    Though there is an element of nostalgia present when reading and writing
                         about small-town cafes, the Cafe Indiana Cookbook does
                         not just celebrate timeless charm. Some things stay the same, others
                         evolve. An example is the Ethiopian food served Friday evenings only at
                         Daniel's Ligonier Cafe, where the rest of the time most of the food
                         served is "traditional Hoosier food made from scratch." Different
                         customers show up on Friday evenings than come to eat the rest of the
                         week.
                    Fried bologna sandwiches are not a dish often seen on Minnesota small-town cafe menus, but recipes
                         involving fried bologna do show up in community cookbooks from the 1950s
                         and earlier. I would speculate that like apple butter, fried bologna in the
                         Upper Midwest may be home food more than public food. Breaded pork
                         tenderloin sandwiches, on the other hand, are deliciously available in
                         Iowa and Minnesota
                         restaurants as well as Indiana cafes.
                    The book of the trio that has the least to say to people interested in
                         Indiana history is Indiana Cooks! Great Restaurant Recipes for
                              the Home Kitchen. It demonstrates—and documents—that Indiana does
                         indeed have many good, small, independent fine-dining restaurants, but the
                         chef biographies and many of the recipes do not sound very different from
                         each other or from many nice small restaurants in Minnesota
                         and Wisconsin
                         where the interest in local foods has also intensified in recent years.
                         Future historians of Indiana's foodways will want to note the
                         appearance and evolution of this type of restaurant in many places in the
                         state, supplementing but not supplanting the more traditional cafe
                         eateries. This reader would have appreciated more about the towns or
                         neighborhood locales of the restaurants, although the book does provide a
                         welcome list of some of the local farms and food producers whose products
                         the chefs use.
                    The cookbooks helped me remember some of the good meals I have enjoyed during
                         visits to Indiana, at places like the Red Geranium
                         Restaurant at the New Harmony Inn in New Harmony. They will also influence
                         home cooking in Indiana, as talented cooks
                         throughout the state try out new dishes for the family table from one or
                         all of these books. With some of these recipes, I am planning a Hoosier
                         potluck to honor two friends who grew up in Indiana.
                    Historians interested in what, when, where, and why people ate in the past
                         need to pay attention to cookbooks of all eras along with other good
                         sources like letters and diary entries, photographs and blogs. Bon appetit!
                         Or in cafe lingo: Eat hearty!

                    DEBBIE MILLER is a historian of Minnesota and a reference specialist in
                         the Minnesota Historical Society Library. She is a co-author of Potluck Paradise: Favorite Fare from Church &  Community Cookbooks (2008), which
                         drew its recipes from 1950s charitable cookbooks from around the Midwest,
                         including the Evangelical United Brethren Treasury of Personal
                              Recipes from Swanington,
                         Indiana.
               
               
                    The Historic Fort Wayne Embassy Theatre
                         By Dyne L. Pfeffenberger (Bloomington: Indiana University Press,
                         2009. Pp. xiii, 91. Photographs, illustrations. $24.95.)


                    When MGM founder Marcus Loew observed, "We sell tickets to theaters, not
                         movies," he was speaking of buildings like the Embassy Theatre in
                         Fort
                              Wayne, Indiana. With opulence and luxury unknown to most of the audience
                         members who visit even today, the Embassy is a revitalized gem from a brief
                         but important part of American history, and Dyne L. Pfeffenberger's
                              The Historic Fort Wayne Embassy Theatre will deepen
                         even the casual patron's appreciation for the place of the theater in
                         the region's history.
                    Pfeffenberger begins with a description of the building, greeting the reader
                         as would a friendly tour guide, pointing out the logistics, technology,
                         surfaces, and structure of a space which originally seated 3,100. The book
                         reveals the building's painstaking workmanship: how tile layers would
                         "occasionally break the tile mold as a signature of their individual
                         work," and how "craftsmen transferred thousands of plaster
                         castings, still wet, to a mesh laid in the walls" (pp. 5-6) to create
                         the lions, jesters, gargoyles, flowers, and birds that adorn the lobby. The
                         theater's specifications are amazing: a five-story-tall marquee,
                         Lavagno marble tile floors, ornate plasterwork throughout the lobby and
                         auditorium, chandeliers, and the Grande Page pipe organ. Beautiful color
                         photographs of the modern building interspersed with pictures from the
                         early years testify to the grandeur. The author also offers operational
                         details: for example, the theater was the first air-cooled public building
                         in Fort Wayne, utilizing a water cooling
                         system run from a well beneath the building. A renovation in 1994 resulted
                         in current stage dimensions of eighty feet by sixty-seven feet, a sprung
                         floor, fifty-eight rigging lines, and ten dressing rooms, allowing for the
                         most elaborate of touring productions.
                    Pfeffenberger devotes an entire chapter to the dedicated efforts of the
                         Theatre Foundation to restore the Grande Page pipe organ, one of the very
                         few organs in the country still intact in its original building. Here the
                         book begins to shine, as readers share in the stories and personalities
                         that made up the theater's life. Percy Robbins, the first organist, is
                         described as "a dapper gentleman who dressed in impeccably tailored
                               suits, wore an ascot, and carried
                         an elaborate walking stick" (p. 22). Later organist Buddy Nolan,
                         pictured with shiny, slicked-back hair, relocated to Fort
                                   Wayne "just to be near the object
                         of his affection" (p. 22). When Nolan instituted a series of midnight
                         organ concerts in the mid-1960s, a group of fans from
                                   Detroit chartered a
                         private rail car hooked up to the Wabash Cannonball
                         passenger train just to get to the popular event.
                    Signed photos of performers Bob Hope, Perry Como, and Artie Shaw, all
                         addressed with affection and humor to longtime stage manager Bud Berger,
                         draw the reader into the backstage drama unfolding amongst stagehands and
                         performers.
                    Those intrigued by the history of theaters in Indiana and restoration efforts
                         throughout the state can find information and resources through the Indiana
                         Division of Historic Preservation and Archeology's Historic Theater
                         Initiative at http://www.in.gov/dnr/historic/2803.htm and the League of
                         Historic American Theatres at www.lhat.org.
                    DANIELLE MCCLELLAND is the executive director of BCT Management, Inc.,
                         the private nonprofit which operates the Buskirk-Chumley Theater on behalf
                         of the city of Bloomington,
                         Indiana. She is also a
                         writer/director/performer and teaches for the Indiana University Arts
                         Administration Department.
               
               
                    Restoring the Chain of Friendship British Policy and the
                              Indians of the Great Lakes, 1783-1815
                         By Timothy D. Willig (Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press,
                         2008. Pp. xiii, 374. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                         $50.00.)


                    It was once the case that all Native American history was "policy
                         history," or the "history of Indian-white relations." Since
                         1950, scholars have increasingly moved away from such models to explore
                         more Native-centered approaches that attended to indigenous peoples'
                         agency in the past. With a mighty heave, historian Timothy Willig's
                         monograph casts the pendulum of scholarly trends in the writing of Native
                         history back toward the older mode of inquiry: this is policy history with
                         a vengeance. The author adopts wholesale the perspective of his eighteenth-
                         and nineteenth-century British sources in considering Native peoples as
                         "defeated wartime allies" (p. 6). Throughout the book, Native
                         Americans appear as mere ciphers, praised when they exhibited proper
                         deference and loyalty to their British masters, and criticized as dupes or
                         villains (Mohawk leader Joseph Brant is singled out for the latter role)
                               when they asserted sovereign
                         rights that the author assures us did not exist.
                    Rarely does one find in contemporary professional historical writing a
                         scholar willing to accept as valid the doctrine of discovery, a fifteenth-
                         century legal fiction invented to legitimize Europe's intrusion into
                         North America by denigrating the nature of indigenous land tenure. Yet
                         Willig considers the Genoese navigator Giovanni Caboto's 1497
                         reconnaissance of Atlantic waters off Newfoundland (while in the employ of
                         England) to be of decisive import in his study. From that moment onward,
                         all Native people in North America supposedly lost "full title"
                         (p. 128) to their lands, enjoying thereafter only the right of usufruct
                         (i.e., the right to dwell upon and use the land) at the sufferance of the
                         English Crown. The author then proceeds to resurrect the shopworn claim
                         that British policymakers "did not consider indigenous groups as
                         political entities, but rather as separate racial classes, or groups, that
                         were to receive special treatment" (p. 128). However convenient these
                         opinions were to post-Revolutionary British policymakers, or to
                         Willig's argument, neither is true. The author manifests an almost
                         willful ignorance of the implications of the past several decades of
                         scholarship on colonial-era Native American history (references in his
                         bibliography notwithstanding) regarding treaty-making in particular. Had
                         the author chosen to document the undeniable transition from a time when
                         Native people were recognized as nations (this was certainly the case east
                         of the Mississippi
                              River until 1783) to a time when they were not, he might
                         have produced a "policy history" of interest and value. Instead,
                         he has opted to swallow uncritically the paper trail of interested
                         individuals who constructed far-reaching erasures of Native nationhood and
                         to represent those constructions in factual terms.
                    The author's attempt to provide a rationale for this book (pp. 7-8)
                         fails to yield a convincing argument for this particular study's
                         existence vis-a-vis prior and better works by Colin Calloway, Robert S.
                         Allen, and Alan Taylor. The author's true rationale might be found in
                         the book's epilogue, where Willig's self-proclaimed status as a
                         "Loyalist" (p. x) appears to have motivated a quixotic rear-guard
                         historiographical battle against long dead early national American writers
                         named "Henry" (William Henry Harrison, Henry Clay, and Henry Rowe
                         Schoolcraft, with Lewis Cass thrown in for good measure) (pp. 244-46).
                         These American writers did not "properly understand British-Indian
                         relations" (p. 251) circa 1783-1815, and thus Willig contends that we
                         need to learn of the "complexities" inherent in those relations
                         (p. 260). Willig is able to mock early national Americans'
                         "bellowing" (p. 246) about a "myth of conquest" (p.
                         266) over indigenous peoples  stemming
                         from the British surrender of the North American interior in the post-
                         Revolutionary Treaty of Paris, but is unable, or unwilling, to recognize
                         similar and no less damaging rhetorical manipulations by British officials
                         after 1783.
                    Beyond establishing a most basic claim for geographic diversity in the
                         conduct of British-Indian relations from 1783 to 1815, the book offers very
                         little that is new or noteworthy in terms of its content or the sources
                         consulted in its writing. Willig's interpretation of British-Indian
                         relations is actively hostile to the concerns of those interested in
                         recovering the story of Native peoples' engagements with settler
                         colonialism in North America.

                    JON PARMENTER teaches early American and Native American history at
                         Cornell University. He is the author of The Edge of the Woods:
                              Iroquoia, 1534-1701 (2010).
               

               
                    The Missouri Mormon Experience
                         Edited by Thomas M. Spencer (Columbia: University of Missouri
                         Press, 2010. Pp. vii, 187. Notes, maps, illustrations, index.
                         $34.95.)

                    From 1831 to 1839, large numbers of Mormons congregated in Missouri, which their prophet Joseph Smith had
                         declared as both the site of the Garden of Eden and the location of a
                         future temple city, a New Jerusalem, to which Jesus Christ would return.
                         During most of the 1830s, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
                         had two headquarters, in Ohio and Missouri (making Indiana much
                         crossed-over by early Mormons). Deep cultural, religious, and economic
                         differences led to a series of violent clashes, as Missourians drove the
                         Latter-day Saints from a series of counties, and finally, under threat of
                         an "extermination" order signed by Governor Lilburn Boggs, from
                         the state during the winter of 1838-1839.
                    While this expulsion became a central part of Mormon memory, identity, and
                         history, most historians of Missouri have largely ignored the Mormon
                         conflicts. This volume of collected essays, which grew out of the Missouri
                         Mormon Experience conference held at the Missouri state capitol in 2006,
                         contributes to both Mormon and midwestern history.
                    In their essays, Thomas Spencer and Kenneth Winn argue that cultural and
                         economic chasms—Yankee Mormons vs. Upper South Missourians, Latter-day
                         Saint communalism and landholdings vs. Missouri individualism and land
                         hunger, a Mormon aversion to slavery vs. Missourians' defense of the
                         institution—led to the violence. Spencer extends this analysis through a
                         careful study of the most  violent
                         episode, the slaughter of seventeen Mormon men and boys at Haun's
                         Mill. Winn argues that the Mormon War set the stage for future extralegal
                         violence in western Missouri, especially the border clashes of Bleeding
                         Kansas and the Civil War gang violence which tore apart the state. For
                         their part, as Richard Bennett demonstrates, Mormons believed that the
                         unwillingness of civil officials to defend them and their own ineffectual
                         military efforts in Missouri necessitated a more effective Mormon militia,
                         which led to the large Nauvoo Legion in the Illinois city they settled
                         after their expulsion from Missouri.
                    Other essays give additional context for the Missouri Mormon War. Ronald
                         Romig and Michael Riggs examine unsuccessful attempts by Mormons in the
                         mid-1830s to return to their initial landholdings. Grant Underwood argues
                         that the Saints, who hoped to establish a refuge in Missouri from the
                         calamities preceding Christ's Second Coming, viewed the conflicts
                         through the lens of apocalyptic millenarianism. Intriguingly, not all
                         Missourians were hostile to Mormons, as Jean Pry and Dale Whitman
                         demonstrate in their study of the city of Columbia, where several Mormon
                         prisoners were incarcerated in 1839.
                    Finally, several essays examine Mormon interactions with Missouri following
                         their expulsion from the state. Alexander Baugh, for instance, examines the
                         history of a planned Mormon temple in Far West, dedicated in 1838 but never
                         built. During a renewed interest in Missouri historic sites among Mormons
                         in the 1960s and 1970s, the Far West temple site was established as a
                         church historic site. However, the lack of a more extensive investigation
                         of how the Missouri experience shaped Mormon memory and identity, including
                         the twentieth-century establishment of a series of historic sites
                         well-visited by Mormon tourists, stands out as a significant omission.
                    Judging by their length, many of the chapters seem not to have advanced much
                         past the stage of their initial conference paper format. Nevertheless, this
                         volume contains sound scholarship and contributes much to the understanding
                         of both Missouri and Mormon history.

                    MATTHEW J. GROW is Assistant Professor of History at the University of
                         Southern Indiana. Grow is the author of "Liberty to the
                              Downtrodden": Thomas L. Kane, Romantic Reformer
                         (2009).
               

               
               
                    The Hutterites in North America
                         By Rod Janzen and Max Stanton (Baltimore,
                         Md.: Johns Hopkins
                         University Press, 2010. Pp. xx, 373. Figures, tables, maps, illustrations,
                         appendix, notes, bibliography, index. $45.00.)


                    Historian Rod Janzen and anthropologist Max Stanton collaborated to produce
                         this empathic and even apologetic account of the Hutterites, a small
                         Christian denomination that traces its origins to the early decades of the
                         Protestant Reformation (1520s and 1530s). In Europe, the Hutterites were
                         sometimes persecuted and pressured to give up aspects of their faith that
                         did not conform to the expectations of the nation states in which they
                         lived. In the 1870s, the Hutterites started migrating to the
                                   United
                                   States and Canada,
                         where they received some assistance from other communal groups such as the
                         Harmony Society and the Amana Colony. Hutterites settled primarily in the
                         Dakotas and Montana and the provinces of
                         Saskatchewan,
                         Alberta, and Manitoba in
                         Canada.
                    Hutterites are distinct from most other Christian sects in that they believe
                         that all Christians should live in communities where property and other
                         assets are jointly owned. They trace this communitarian model to biblical
                         texts such as Acts 4:32: "[N]o one claimed private ownership of any
                         possession, but everything they owned was held in common". Hutterites
                         are also pacifists following the example and teachings of Jesus. Hutterite
                         colonies are usually located in rural areas, and most depend primarily upon
                         agriculture for sustenance. Unlike the Old Order Amish, they use modern
                         appliances, machinery, vans, trucks, and in some cases even cell phones and
                         computers.
                    The book provides a very readable brief description of just about every
                         aspect of Hutterite life: history, the four Hutterite branches, worship
                         practices, work, education, housing, spirituality, health (both physical
                         and mental), marriage and family, childhood, youth, old age, dress styles,
                         food, folk beliefs, personalities, governance, patriarchy, discipline,
                         recreational activities, defections from the colonies, relationships with
                         outsiders, and the economic structures of the communities. The on-again and
                         off-again relationship between the Hutterites and the Bruderhof (another
                         communal group that formed in the twentieth century) is mentioned in the
                         book, but not discussed in detail.
                    A real strength of this study is that it grows out of twenty-five years of
                         interactions with Hutterites on the part of the authors. They have been
                         able to observe how the colonies have changed as they interact with new
                         technologies, the outside world, and each other. They also know individuals
                         well enough to realize that although adherents are expected to follow a
                         strict code of conduct, they also are allowed leeway for individual
                         expression and exploration, especially during youth. When individuals  deviate from expected behavior, the
                         community strives to restore them to fellowship, not drive them away.
                    The authors devote a considerable amount of space to describing the origins
                         of certain Hutterite core beliefs, such as living in community. More
                         attention might have been directed to their pacifism and how the doctrine
                         and practice separates them from the mainstream of Christianity and of
                         secular society. The book contains an extensive bibliography, a much-needed
                         glossary of Hutterisch (a German dialect) terms, and a listing of Hutterite
                         communities.

                    WILMA ANN BAILEY is Professor of Hebrew and Aramaic Scripture at
                         Christian Theological Seminary in
                         Indianapolis,
                         Indiana. She is the author
                         of "You Shall Not Kill" or "You Shall Not
                              Murder"?: The Assault on a Biblical Text (2005).
               
               
                    Northerners at War Reflections on the Civil War Home
                              Front
                         By J. Matthew Gallman (Kent,
                         Ohio: Kent State University Press,
                         2010. Pp. xx, 266. Notes, index. $39.95.)
                    This volume collects previously published essays by J. Matthew Gallman, a
                         leading authority on the Civil War's Northern homefront, drawing
                         extensively on the work that resulted in his books Mastering
                              Wartime: A Social History of Philadelphia during the Civil War
                         (1990) and America's Joan of Arc: The Life of Anna
                              Elizabeth Dickinson (2006). Gallman intends this collection to
                         reveal trends in the profession as well as his scholarly career, although
                         he is more successful at the latter. There is, however, a telling moment
                         Gallman relates from Gettysburg College's Civil War Institute. His
                         presentation provoked an audience member to ask, "Could you explain
                         why you were talking about women?" This says as much about the
                         development of the new social history Gallman practices as it does about
                         the gulf that has emerged between historians and a Civil War public wedded
                         to the traditional military and historical narrative.
                    About one-third of the essays focus on Philadelphia's wartime
                         experience, another third on Dickinson, and the remainder on diverse topics
                         such as the war's impact on the Northern economy and on cities, the
                         Battle of Gettysburg's impact on the town, and black troops at the
                         battle of Olustee. There is some repetition of information, particularly in
                         the essays about Dickinson.
                    Gallman's work advances certain themes. He does not see the Civil War as
                         having brought great change, but rather views Northerners as having built
                         on pre-war institutions and roles to fulfill wartime needs. In one of his
                         case studies, Gallman looks at 
                         Philadelphia's Great Central Fair, a fundraising effort on behalf of
                         the Sanitary Commission. Historians have seen its scale—it lasted three
                         weeks and had a quarter-million visitors, including President and Mrs.
                         Lincoln—as signs of the increased public role of women and power of the
                         state. Gallman cautions that size does not mean change. Women served in the
                         same types of roles they had in pre-war organizations. Local benevolent
                         societies which had been the mainstay of Philadelphia philanthropy expanded
                         to carry out the fair. This theme of continuity with the pre-war period
                         continues in other essays. Gallman argues that policing in
                         Philadelphia
                         during the war relied on the force built after the 1844 anti-immigrant
                         riot, that traditional gender roles shaped Gettysburg townspeople's
                         reaction to the battle, and that wartime demands and the government
                         contracting system failed to totally modernize the Northern economy.
                    Similarly, Dickinson's extraordinary oratorical talents allowed her to
                         expand but never fully escape woman's sphere. Gallman explores how
                         Dickinson, an abolitionist orator and chief support of her family, shaped a
                         career that went beyond rousing the Northern populace to patriotic support
                         of the war. She played a political role, reluctantly choosing to support
                         Lincoln's reelection in 1864 and controversially throwing her
                         influence to the liberal Republicans in 1872. Neither her supporters nor
                         her detractors, however, viewed her as a typical woman, indicating that her
                         prominence did not reflect an expanded definition of women's
                         roles.
                    Those interested in Indiana history will not find material directly about the
                         Hoosier state in this volume. They will find, however, a wealth of
                         interesting insights into the Civil War North presented in a well-written,
                         engaging volume by a master of the new social history.

                    NICOLE ETCHESON is Alexander M. Bracken Professor of History at Ball
                         State University in Muncie, Indiana. She is the author of A
                              Generation at War: The Civil War Era in a Northern Community
                         (forthcoming 2011).

               
               

               
                    Dirty Words The Rhetoric of Public Sex Education,
                              1870-1924
                         By Robin E. Jensen (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2010.
                         Pp. xxiv, 201. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $75.00.)


                    Robin E. Jensen's Dirty Words adds to the growing
                         literature on the history of sex education in the United States. Jensen,
                         who writes from a communication studies perspective, argues that
                         understanding the different rhetorical strategies of Gilded Age and
                         Progressive Era sex education promoters shows how sex instruction became
                         integrated—in however controversial and fragmented a fashion—into public
                         education in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. She is
                         particularly interested in the ways that ambiguous language alternately
                         advanced and impeded the causes of both pro- and anti-sex education
                         speakers. Jensen states explicitly that she is delineating those rhetorical
                         strategies in order to understand their deployment in present-day political
                         arguments concerning the scope and funding of sex education.
                    Dirty Words examines five episodes in struggles over sex
                         education. Jensen begins with Anthony Comstock's work through the
                         Comstock Law to curtail distribution of sex-related language in print, and
                         Margaret Sanger's attempts to evade that law. Jensen then turns to the
                         efforts of Dr. Ella Flagg Young, the first female superintendent of the
                         Chicago Public Schools, to incorporate scientific sexual hygiene lessons
                         into the curriculum to promote the sexual health of low-income immigrant
                         children in the 1913-1914 school year. Jensen follows that discussion with
                         an examination of federal propaganda directed at World War I soldiers,
                         which openly and explicitly promoted sexual health and hygiene for military
                         fitness. She then looks at the efforts of another individual educator, Dr.
                         Rachelle Slobodinsky Yarros, a member of the American Social Hygiene
                         Association (ASHA) who advocated for sex education that particularly
                         targeted urban, low-income, immigrant women in order to slow rates of
                         venereal disease, prostitution, and pregnancy in Chicago. Jensen returns to
                         the federal level in her analysis of poster campaigns created by the U. S.
                         Health Service that specifically targeted women and African American men.
                         She concludes with an analysis of the different ways that the rhetoric of
                         Progressive Era sex educators foreshadowed the speech of modern-day sex
                         educators, concluding that "discourse about public sex education in
                         the contemporary United States is driven by ambiguous language and produces
                         programs that fail to foster sexually healthy individuals" (p.
                         159).
                    Jensen clearly demonstrates that political and social context shapes
                         speakers' and writers' decisions about  whether to use clear or ambiguous language.
                         She also shows that speakers and writers decide on what language to use
                         based on their perceptions of their audiences, perceptions which are
                         informed by contemporary gender, class, and racial tropes. For example, the
                         wartime propaganda that the ASHA and Committee on Training Camp Activities
                         created for white soldiers was forthright regarding the possible effects of
                         syphilis and gonorrhea, but depended on portraying white women in only two
                         ways: either as prostitutes waiting to infect soldiers or as chaste
                         innocents waiting for them back home, needing education only their future
                         husbands could provide.
                    Many of the individuals and agencies Jensen discusses have been examined
                         previously in histories of these eras. The relatively unknown and most
                         intriguing voice in her study is that of Yarros, who as a Russian immigrant
                         female doctor used complicated rhetorical techniques to speak to women of
                         similar ethnic backgrounds, and to speak for them to the mostly white,
                         native-born, and middle-class ASHA. Whether or not contemporary sex
                         education promoters will find Dirty Words useful for
                         their own work is open to question, as deliberately ambiguous speech
                         promoting abstinence continues to be the most effective means of securing
                         federal funding. Nonetheless, Jensen's work complements existing
                         scholarship on sex education, adding nuance to understandings of
                         speakers' and writers' choices of words.

                    DONNA J. DRUCKER is visiting lecturer in the Department of Feminist and
                         Gender Studies at Colorado College. Her book manuscript, "Classifying
                         Sex: Alfred Kinsey and the Organization of Knowledge," is in
                         progress.
               

               
                    Striking with the Ballot Ohio Labor and the Populist
                              Party
                         By Michael Pierce (DeKalb: Northern Illinois University Press,
                         2010. Pp. x, 291. Illustrations, tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                         $39.00.)


                    Michael Pierce's study of organized labor's involvement in
                         Ohio
                         politics during the 1890s does not live up to its title's promise—and
                          a good thing, too. Readers imagining that they are embarking on a
                         finely detailed examination of Populism's intermeshing with workers in
                         a state where Populism cut almost no swath at all will find, to their
                         surprise, that they have come upon something far more significant: a
                         guidepost to future scholars about the ways in which labor, in a time of
                         trouble, found a new voice in urban politics.
                    
                    Striking With the Ballot does indeed reveal the way labor
                         issues intersected with the People's Party in the Buckeye state. As
                         Pierce makes clear, the heart of insurgency there rested on quite a
                         different basis than it did west of the Mississippi River. Farmers never
                         took to the new party, and Ohio lawmakers realized, as had Republicans
                         elsewhere, that timely concessions would blight any potential crop of angry
                         voters from their own ranks. A more promising ground lay among the urban
                         working class; unions, particularly in coal country, had strong reasons for
                         testing the alternatives. The industrial warfare that broke out in 1894
                         propelled the United Mine Workers into the Populist camp and led to Samuel
                         Gompers's one-year overthrow as head of the American Federation of
                         Labor. Workers knew what the Money Power could do when friendly judges
                         armed with strikebreaking injunctions meted out jail sentences for
                         cooperation in the Pullman strike. No Jute Trust, shoving the price of
                         cotton-bagging sky-high, could match the day-to-day impositions of the gas
                         and streetcar monopolies in Cleveland. Never able to make much headway in
                         state campaigns, the Populists did a little better in Ohio's three
                         largest cities. However, the party's decline did not drive labor
                         organizations out of politics again; instead, it only induced unions to
                         find new vehicles for making the major parties reckon with them. By 1901,
                         labor had become a force that politicians dared not ignore. For Boss
                         Cox's Cincinnati machine, the working class alliance became
                         indispensable; without the union insurgents' support, Tom
                         Johnson's Cleveland revolution could not have happened. The real
                         harvest of the Populist-labor agitation from the 1890s, Pierce suggests,
                         came a dozen years into the new century with a fresh state constitution,
                         strong on direct democracy and government protections for Ohio's
                         workers.
                    Heavily researched and insightful, Striking With the Ballot
                         oversells the Populist angle. Pierce's own numbers show that with or
                         without labor's help, the People's Party did embarrassingly badly
                         almost every time it ran a state ticket. Its labor adjuncts may have been
                         in the coalition, but never really of it-certainly not where the national
                         Populist program, free silver and all, was concerned. But so what? What
                         Pierce reminds us matters far more: that Progressivism did not just come
                         out of the "ministers of reform" and middle class do-gooders, but
                         out of an urban working class concerned about immediate injustices. Had he
                         looked nationally, he would have found that his pattern held true in many
                         other places. For New Yorkers, the Steel Trust may have been a theoretical
                         evil, but the Ice Trust, the Gas Trust, and Thomas P. Ryan's Traction
                         Trust brought the evil home every day—and in Ryan's case, carried it
                         to and from work. Scholars of Populism could hardly do better than to
                         stretch the track that Pierce  has laid
                         into those states where, like Ohio, the Populism moment seemingly never
                         came.
                    MARK WAHLGREN SUMMERS is Professor of History at the University of
                         Kentucky.
               
               
                    The 1933 Chicago World's Fair A Century of
                              Progress
                         By Cheryl R. Ganz (Champaign: University of Illinois Press, 2008.
                         Pp. xi, 206. Illustrations, notes, index. $39.95.)


                    Cheryl Ganz's study of Chicago's 1933 World's Fair begins and
                         ends with a discussion of Sally Rand. Rand, who came to represent the fair
                         to the public, symbolized progress since she rose from a hardscrabble
                         beginning to become a notorious fan dancer. In some ways, she epitomized
                         Chicago itself—climbing from its beginning as a frontier outpost to its
                         position as the nation's second largest city and an infamous gangster
                         capital. Ganz's book explores themes of gender, as well as ethnicity
                         and social class, and places the fair in historical perspective.
                    The city's business elite saw the Century of Progress International
                         Exposition of 1933 as a way to distance Chicago from its reputation as Al
                         Capone's city. The leaders of the fair shared a common experience
                         during World War I and saw technology as a guiding principle for progress.
                         Approaching the fair like a military campaign, Rufus C. Dawes and his
                         brother, U.S. Vice President Charles C. Dawes, shepherded the exposition
                         through the storm of the Great Depression, privately funding it and
                         actually making a profit after a two- year run. In turn, Lenox R. Lohr, who
                         had risen to the rank of Major during the war, brought his considerable
                         organizational skills to the role of the fair's general manager (and
                         went on to head Chicago's famous Museum of Science and Industry).
                         These men and others like them embodied the belief that engineering,
                         technological advances, and good organization could solve any problem and
                         bring about progress. The fair itself brought optimism to an anxious
                         Depression-era populace that flocked to the second of Chicago's
                         world's fairs.
                    Not surprisingly, ethnicity played an important role at the fair. The
                         author's discussion of the part played by African American clubwomen
                         is most interesting. Despite the racism of the times, they were able to
                         have an impact on the fair and its representation of Jean Baptiste DuSable
                         as Chicago's pioneer resident.
                                   Chicago's black
                         community showed considerable political influence in a city wrestling with
                         ethnic diversity and an emerging Democratic political machine. Ganz also
                         throws light on the role of both Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy
                         at the fair. Mexico  attempted to
                         depict itself as a modern industrial society by tying itself to the
                         railroad; both Germany and Italy
                         presented themselves as formidable air, scientific, and military powers. In
                         turn, the political issues affecting Germany divided the local population,
                         while the arrival of the Italian Air Fleet, led by the Fascist General
                         Italo Balbo, thrilled the city. The United States showed its own aeronautic
                         and scientific prowess with the launching of the Piccard gondola. The
                         flight, which took off from Chicago's Soldier Field during the fair,
                         quickly crashed and ended in failure, but would succeed the following
                         year.
                    Ganz has written a formidable history of the Century of Progress
                         International Exposition of 1933 in Chicago, placing it firmly within its
                         social, political, economic, and historical context. This beautifully
                         illustrated book tells the story of the fair not simply from the
                         perspective of its architecture or the formidable economic obstacles
                         presented by the Great Depression, but from the perspective of women's
                         history, ethnic history, and the social and political background of
                         organizers. It is a significant contribution to both the study of
                         world's fairs and to the history of Chicago.

                    DOMINIC A. PACYGA is Professor of History at Columbia College Chicago.
                         His latest book is Chicago: A Biography (2009).
               
               
                    Excavating Nauvoo The Mormons and the Rise of Historical
                              Archaeology in America
                         By Benjamin C. Pykles (Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press,
                         2010. Pp. 389. Illustrations, notes, index. $50.00.)
                    Benjamin C. Pykles sets out to tell two related stories in his fascinating
                         book. The broad strokes of the book tell the story of the emergence of
                         historical archaeology as an organized, professional, academic discipline
                         in the middle of the twentieth century. The second story deals with the
                         rise of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints-sponsored Nauvoo
                         Restoration, Inc. (NRI), and the move of that organization away from
                         historical archaeology toward a religiously driven proselytizing
                         enterprise. While Pykles uses the latter as a case study to explain the
                         former, the story of NRI turns out to be much more than that.
                    Pykles does a fine job of summarizing the basic contours of historical
                         archaeology in the United States from the origins of the
                         nascent discipline in the late nineteenth century to its fully developed
                         professional expression in the mid-twentieth century. He also deftly
                         handles a precis of Mormon history that gives non-specialists a firm
                         enough grip on the  church's
                         complex history to be able to follow the story that he wants to tell. And
                         what a story it is. The drama centers on the tiny town of
                         Nauvoo, Illinois,
                         where the Mormons settled in 1839 and from which they were forcibly driven
                         in 1846. It is also the town in which Joseph Smith lived from 1839 until
                         his murder in 1844. Given the significance of the city in Mormon history,
                         it is no surprise that the LDS Church began to take an interest in
                         restoring the sites in Nauvoo once the church had grown sufficiently
                         prosperous and accepted by American culture.
                    The heart of this book, and its greatest contribution, lies in the narrative
                         of the conflict between Mormon archaeologists and Mormon religious leaders
                         over the ultimate purpose of the restoration work at Nauvoo. Pykles's
                         book makes room for itself in a growing body of scholarly literature
                         dealing with the creation and manipulation of public memory, through the
                         use of historical documents and historic sites, by LDS Church leaders. The
                         story of NRI provides a particularly clear case study of this phenomenon.
                         In the early phases of the work at Nauvoo, archaeologists focused on how to
                         accurately recreate the 1840s-era buildings. In 1971, however, the church
                         restructured NRI, which had been driven by a "secular approach...
                         since its inception" (p. 149). From that point on, the church
                         instructed NRI to focus on only those things that would aid in
                         proselytizing. As a result of this move, organizations such as the National
                         Park Service and Colonial Williamsburg withdrew what had previously been
                         eager hands of fellowship. The result of this process is evident today to
                         anyone who visits LDS historic sites at Nauvoo. Each site is staffed by
                         multiple proselytizing missionaries, and LDS visitors are encouraged to
                         fill out referral cards with the names of friends who might be interested
                         in having a visit from church missionaries. The end result is that LDS
                         efforts at historical archaeology, at least in Nauvoo, exist primarily to
                         "confirm belief and verify [sacred] history," which puts the
                         restoration at odds with most projects undertaken by historical
                         archaeologists that seek to provide an anthropological and cultural context
                         for the restored sites (p. 304). Despite the wonderful contribution the
                         book makes to Mormon studies, this reviewer is led to wonder on behalf of
                         historical archaeologists why Pykles chose such an unusual and atypical
                         site as Nauvoo for his case study. However, readers interested in the
                         development of historical archaeology in the United States, in Mormon
                         history, or in religious groups' struggles to control public
                         perceptions of their past will find this book rewarding.

                    STEPHEN C. TAYSOM is Assistant Professor of Religious Studies at
                         Cleveland State University.
               

               
               
                    Summers with Lincoln Looking for the Man in the
                              Monuments
                         By James A. Percoco (New York: Fordham University Press, 2008.
                         Pp. [xxxviii], 241. Illustrations, appendices, notes, bibliography, index.
                         $24.95.)


                    Summers with Lincoln simultaneously weaves four storylines
                         into an engaging and educational journey. At the most obvious level,
                         Percoco narrates the history of the design, construction, and public
                         responses to seven monuments of Abraham Lincoln: Thomas Ball's Freedmen's Monument, erected in
                                   Washington,
                              D.C., in 1876; Paul Manship's Lincoln the Hoosier Youth in Fort
                                   Wayne, Indiana, in
                         1932; George Gray Barnard's Lincoln in
                                   Cincinnati in 1917;
                         Augustus Saint-Gaudens's Standing Lincoln in
                                   Chicago in 1887; Gutzon
                         Borglum's Seated Lincoln in Newark, New
                              Jersey, in 1911; James Earle Fraser's Lincoln in Jersey
                              City, New
                              Jersey, in 1930; and Daniel Chester French's
                              Seated Lincoln in the Lincoln Memorial in
                                   Washington,
                              D.C., in 1922. These stories provide the
                         entry points for analyses of several thematic aspects of Lincoln's
                         historical and remembered identity: youthful visionary and rough-hewn
                         frontiersman, statesman and war-weary commander-in-chief, Great
                         Emancipator, man of sorrows, and democratic icon. Along the way, Percoco
                         shares tales of his own quest to learn about both the monuments and the
                         sixteenth president, a quest that led him through archival collections,
                         published literature, and conversations with scholars. Finally, the book
                         explicates his efforts to convey his findings and his passion to students,
                         young and old.
                    For the most part, the histories of the monuments and the unfolding
                         interpretations of Lincoln have been documented more thoroughly and
                         scrutinized more minutely elsewhere. The author joins a long line of
                         pilgrims—with Lincoln's law partner William Herndon being probably the
                         most provocative and journalist Ida Tarbell possibly the most
                         persuasive—who have chased Lincoln across the landscape almost since the
                         moment of his death. Percoco's real strength—and the book's
                         unique contribution—lies in his ability to narrate in moving detail the
                         powerful transformation that occurs when a teacher ignites the fire of
                         learning in his students. Chapter One, his account of Ball's Freedmen's Monument, stands out as a singularly
                         rich description of a conversation between smart, twenty-first-century
                         teens and a master teacher who leads them from an analysis of monumental
                         design and symbolism into a deeper understanding of both the meaning of
                         slavery in American history and its enduring legacy of racism.
                    Indiana Magazine of History readers will recognize
                         Percoco's work from the magazine's December 2009 issue, which
                         combined an abbreviated  analysis of
                         Manship's statue with a discussion of Lincoln monuments in
                                   Indianapolis and
                                   Lincoln City.
                         Partisans of Indiana's influence on
                         Lincoln will no doubt be saddened by Percoco's appendix, which shows
                         that Hoosiers have erected only six statues to Lincoln—a far cry from
                         Illinois's nation-leading forty-two, and a smaller number than twelve
                         of the thirty-four states in which one can find statues of Lincoln.
                         Whatever one's view of Lincoln or of the influence of the Hoosier
                         state on his development, Percoco's Summers with
                              Lincoln should be required reading for any teacher seeking to
                         impress the power of the past upon the minds of younger generations.

                    KEITH A. EREKSON is Assistant Professor of History at the University of
                         Texas at El Paso and the author of Everybody's History:
                              Indiana's Lincoln Inquiry and the Quest to Reclaim a
                              President's Past (forthcoming).
               
               
                    Voices from the Bach Stairs Interpreting Servants'
                              Lives at Historic House Museums
                         By Jennifer Pustz (DeKalb: Northern Illinois University Press,
                         2010. Pp. x, 244. Illustrations, appendices, notes, bibliography.
                         Paperbound, $27.00.)


                    Jennifer Pustz's Voices from the Back Stairs offers a
                         guide to museum professionals seeking to address a longstanding concern:
                         how to interpret the lives of domestic servants who lived and labored in
                         historic homes. Pustz, who works as the museum historian for Historic New
                         England, brings firsthand experience to this issue. Her objective in
                         writing the book was to research and share "new ways to authentically
                         interpret the lives of people whose presence at historic houses is often
                         ephemeral but are as significant as those who employed them" (p.
                         5).
                    The author's approach is directly informed by recent scholarship on the
                         public history of slavery and the silenced or romanticized histories of
                         slavery presented in tours of southern plantation homes. Based on the
                         results of a national survey she conducted, Pustz observes that historic
                         homes have been equally reluctant to interpret domestic service critically,
                         even as many sites have embraced the more inclusive mission of the new
                         social history. Many sites believe that there is an insufficient body of
                         evidence to tell domestics' stories and that they lack the financial
                         resources to conduct substantial new research. As a result, historic homes
                         that have interpreted servants as part of their programming have done so in
                         a manner that either depicts relations between servants and employers as
                         implacably harmonious or relegates servants to the background as part of
                         a separate history.
                    
                    Pustz highlights the "servant problem"-the voluble and persistent
                         claims of middle-class Americans that they were unable to find capable
                         domestic laborers—as an accessible point of entry for interpreting domestic
                         service in historic homes. In the years 1865 to 1920, employers and social
                         reformers viewed the servant problem both as a class issue, in that the
                                   United
                                   States purportedly lacked an ample supply
                         of native-born white working-class women willing to enter into such a
                         stigmatized occupation, and as one of race and ethnicity. Employers, for
                         example, routinely commented on the insufficiencies of the Irish
                         "Biddy" while celebrating the stereotype of the African American
                         "Mammy." The servant problem allows interpreters to make
                         connections to broader themes in American history while also demonstrating
                         to visitors how servants and employers held sharply differing opinions on
                         the roots of the alleged problem. Pustz finds other ways to creatively
                         interpret domestic service, even when documents and material objects are
                         lacking. She notes that the architecture of historic homes can provide
                         insight into servants' lives by posing such questions as "Do
                         servants' bedrooms have access to heat?" and "Where did
                         servants enter the house?" (p. 129). Pustz also includes two
                         photographic essays with images ranging from family photographs of servants
                         to advertisements depicting servants using household goods; she accompanies
                         the photographs with advice on how museum professionals might use the
                         materials to provoke discussion.
                    While Pustz's practical suggestions are helpful, her argument that
                         visitors will be drawn to more "authentic" interpretations of
                         historic homes is not fully developed. Today, domestic work in the
                         United
                         States is done primarily by immigrant women of color, displaced from their
                         own homes by the globalization of capital and labor. Many
                         Americans—including those likely to visit historic homes—readily exploit
                         these inequalities. Pustz, however, wavers over how forceful interpreters
                         and curators of historic homes should be when making connections to the
                         present, since such connections can be viewed as "political
                         statements" (p. 137). Her focus on authenticity belies the fact that
                         the incorporation of servants' histories and lives, whether in the
                         past or present, is a political act in its own right. Nonetheless, Voices from the Back Stairs will function as a useful
                         resource for historic house museums wishing to advance a more comprehensive
                         interpretation of the lives of the servants who worked there.

                    ANDY URBAN is an ACLS New Faculty Fellow in the American Studies and
                         History departments at Rutgers University, New Brunswick. He is currently
                         working on a book, "The Empire of the Home: Race, Domestic Labor, and
                         the Cultural Meanings of Servitude in the United States,
                         1850-1900."
                         
               

               

               

                    REVIEW NOTICES


                    Indiana Barns
                         By Marsha Williamson Mohr; introduction by Duncan Campbell
                                   (Bloomington,
                                   Ind.: Quarry Books, 2010. Pp. xiv, 152.
                         Illustrations. $29.95.)

                    Marsha Williamson Mohr's thoughtful photographs of Indiana's barns
                         elevate these fixtures of the Hoosier countryside to an art form, and
                         Duncan Campbell's opening words help to contextualize barns in the
                         nation's agricultural history. Readers will find vivid color
                         photographs of round barns, English barns, tobacco barns, and others taken
                         across the state, in every season of the year, between the covers of this
                         volume. They will also discover something more: a new appreciation for
                         barns not just as utilitarian structures, but as steadfast sentinels of the
                         landscape, grounded and purposeful, offering both shelter and a chance for
                         reflection.

                    The Genius
                         By Theodore Dreiser; edited by Clare Virginia Eby
                         (Champaign:
                         University of Illinois Press, 2008. Pp. xii, 922. Notes, historical
                         commentary, illustrations, index. $95.00.)

                    Theodore Dreiser's 1915 novel, The Genius, was heavily
                         edited in order to make it acceptable to censors. Nevertheless, the work
                         was considered so shocking that the New York Society for the Suppression of
                         Vice banned its publication until 1923. Eby presents readers with the
                         original version of Dreiser's most autobiographical, soul-searching
                         piece as it was written in 1911. In that earlier manuscript, both the
                         characters and the plot develop along a different trajectory than they do
                         in the later work. The Genius is set against a backdrop
                         of seismic changes in American culture, particularly in the worlds of art
                         and literature; the characters in this story must wrestle with what it
                         means to be "modern" in both their personal lives and their
                         creative output. Dreiser's novel is not an easy read, but Eby's
                         notes help to place the work in its social and cultural context.

                    

                    Beetle The Life of General Walter Bedell Smith
                         By D. K. R. Crosswell (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky,
                         2010. Pp. xvii, 1,070. Maps, illustrations, notes, index. $39.95.)

                    As a boy growing up on Ashland Street in Indianapolis, all Walter Bedell Smith ever
                         wanted was to be a soldier. At 16, he enlisted as a private in the Indiana
                         National Guard. Smith's journey from those rather ordinary beginnings
                         to the pinnacle of military achievement (highly decorated four-star general
                         and Eisenhower's chief of staff in Europe) is the subject of
                         Crosswell's biography. This lengthy work detailing Smith's
                         professional life is part of the Association of the United States
                         Army's "American Warriors" series, which may help explain
                         its heavy focus on Smith's Army years. While Crosswell devotes the
                         first part of this book to Smith's later careers in the diplomatic and
                         intelligence arenas during the early years of the Cold War, those postings
                         seem almost bitterly anticlimactic; the lion's share of this volume
                         concentrates on Smith's service in two world wars and in the interwar
                         years. It is here that the book hits its stride, and Crosswell spares no
                         detail, from Smith's first assignment providing aid during
                                   Indianapolis's
                         devastating flood of 1913 to the book's climax, which has Smith
                         presiding over Germany's surrender on May 7, 1945.


                    William Clark Indian Diplomat
                         By Jay H. Buckley (Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 2010.
                         Pp. xx, 306. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound,
                         $19.95.)

                    Although today he is largely remembered as one of the leaders of a legendary
                         expedition, William Clark enjoyed a lengthy and influential career after
                         his exploits with Meriwether Lewis. Jay H. Buckley concentrates on
                         Clark's life from 1807 to 1838, when he worked as an Indian agent,
                         territorial governor, and superintendent of Indian affairs, facilitating
                         the federal program of Indian removal. Buckley relies heavily on
                         Clark's own papers, affording the reader an authentic picture of the
                         mentality of "a Jeffersonian man in a Jacksonian world." In the
                         end, Clark emerges from this portrait as an appropriately complex figure in
                         American history, neither all hero nor all villain.




                    Who Speaks for Margaret Garner? The True Story that
                              Inspired Toni Morrison's Beloved By Mark Reinhardt
                                   (Minneapolis:
                         University of Minnesota Press, 2010. Pp. xii, 317. Appendix, chronology,
                         notes, selected bibliography, index. Paper-bound, $19.95.)

                    Mark Reinhardt sets out to explore the facts complementing the  prize-winning fiction of Toni Morrison's
                         acclaimed 1987 novel, Beloved. Rather than trying to
                         debunk what Morrison herself has proclaimed a work of imagination,
                         Reinhardt offers readers excerpts from primary sources related to one of
                                   Ohio's—and the nation's—most
                         notorious fugitive slave cases of the 1850s, including news reports, court
                         proceedings, interviews, letters, legislative debates, sermons, and
                         editorials. Thanks to Reinhardt, readers can determine the meaning of the
                         Garner case for themselves after sifting through the various documents,
                         which are rife with the biases and competing agendas of those involved in
                         their production. The records Reinhardt presents may enable readers to
                         arrive at new, more complex understandings of slavery, race, gender, and
                         politics, and to recognize, with Morrison herself, that there is more than
                         one way to interpret this often contradictory and ambiguous narrative.




                    Twilight Rails The Final Era of Railroad Building in the
                              Midwest
                         By H. Roger Grant (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press,
                         2010. Pp. xiv, 275. Illustrations, maps, notes, index. $39.95.)

                    At first glance, a book about eight moribund rail lines may seem a bad idea
                         for a recessionary time. Who wants to read about failed business ventures
                         from a hundred years ago? But H. Roger Grant makes a convincing case that
                         success is not always defined by the amount of red ink on one's
                         balance sheet. Although Grant's small-town rail lines were ultimately
                         rendered obsolete by the highway system, their construction generated real
                         economic development—along with excitement at becoming
                         "connected" with the outside world—in the communities they
                         served. Farmers accessed broader markets, land values rose, and local
                         businesses expanded. Hoosier rail fans will be especially interested in
                         Grant's discussion of the St. Joseph Valley Railway. The Valley Line
                         was actually a hybrid system combining electric, gasoline, and
                         steam-powered engines that aspired to connect Chicago and
                         Toledo, but only
                         made it into Steuben County, Indiana. Despite its financial failure, Grant
                         tells us, the Valley Line's trackage filled a niche for both farmers
                         and summer vacationers and left a commercial network as its legacy.




                    Troubled Ground A Tale of Murder Lynching, and Reckoning in
                              the New South.
                         By Claude A. Clegg III (Urbana: University of Illinois Press,
                         2010. Pp. xviii, 248. Photographs, notes, index. Cloth-bound, $80.00;
                         paperbound, $27.00.)

                    Claude Clegg, a professor of history at Indiana University, was examining
                         photographs of American lynching when he came upon one grisly depiction of
                         a 1906 episode in Salisbury, 
                         North Carolina. Clegg had never heard of
                         the event, but he knew the place well: it was his hometown. Determined to
                         find out the details of the incident, as well as of its seeming erasure
                         from history, the author has produced a probing examination of the roles
                         played by memory, power, and identity in shaping our attitudes toward the
                         demons of the past. Whereas James Madison's account of the 1930
                         lynching in Marion, Indiana (A Lynching in the
                              Heartland: Race and Memory in America, 2001), ends with a
                         redemption of sorts (Marion's election of a
                         black mayor in 1998), Clegg's chronicle of the lynching—and its
                         aftermath—proves complicated and more troubling. True enough, the state of
                                   North Carolina
                         convicted one of the mob, George Hall, and sentenced him to fifteen years
                         in prison. It is true, as well, that Salisbury elected its own black mayor
                         in 1981. Yet these developments, Clegg contends, are small consolation for
                         this unsettling story of the New South-they do not bring closure, only more
                         questions.

               




          
          
               
               
               
               
          

