
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 86, Issue 2, pages 131-248. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:86+issue:2+year:1990&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            A Hoosier Family Moves West, 1868–1895: Part II
            Edited by Rodney O. Davis∗
            
            Shortly after the Civil War, Samuel and Margaret Myers and three of their seven living children
                    migrated from Fairbanks, 
                        Sullivan County
                    , Indiana, to 
                        Vernon County
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    . Samuel was sixty years old, and two of the sons who accompanied him to Missouri had
                    fought in the guerilla-ravaged area of southwestern Missouri during the war. Perhaps not
                    surprisingly, correspondence between the Missouri and Indiana branches of the Myers clan began
                    almost immediately. Because the difficulties of resettlement in a semi-frontier area were a major
                    preoccupation for those who moved west, letters "back home" detailed these
                    concerns. Homesickness and sorrow over separation, along with the hard economic times and the
                    grasshopper visitation of the mid-1870s on the Middle Border, were frequent subjects of
                    correspondence. Between 1871 and 1879 the letter writers included for the most part an overworked
                    and ultimately ailing Samuel Myers, his wife Margaret, and their crippled son 
                        Milton
                    ; the principal recipients were Margaret (Maggie) Myers Harris and Mary Myers Davis, two
                    of the three Myers children who remained in 
                        Sullivan County
                    . Culminating points in this early correspondence were letters detailing the illnesses
                    and subsequent deaths of 
                        Milton
                     and Samuel, the latter resulting from a prolonged seige of cancer. Minor themes
                    involved the two other Myers sons who accompanied their parents to 
                        Missouri
                    ; the marriage of Samuel Barnes Myers to Martha C. (Clem) Reynolds and the death three
                    years later of their infant 
                  
                     ∗ Rodney O. Davis is professor of history, Knox College,
                                    
                        Galesburg, Illinois
                     . Most of the letters reproduced below are in
                            his possession, and he expresses his great debt to Mrs. Antoinette Davis, who saved many of
                            the letters from destruction, to Mrs. Clella Kelley, who provided photographs and
                            photocopies of the letters in her possession in 
                                Oklahoma
                            , and to Ms. Kellie D. Smith, who also provided photographs. He also wishes to
                            thank Mrs. Laura Busch, Mrs. Jean Loomer, and Mrs. Leona Schoenrock for genealogical
                            information and Professor Douglas Wilson for graphics assistance.
               
                     first son; and the move farther west to south-central Kansas by
                    William Nelson Myers and his wife Lucy.1
            
            A second set of Myers letters, written between 1879 and 1895, is more concerned with the three
                    members of the Myers second generation who did not follow Samuel west immediately but who finally
                    did so within five years of his death. Shortly before the presidential election of 1880, and before
                    the birth of their fifth child, Maggie and Jacob Harris migrated to 
                        Vernon County
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    . They remained there, near relatives, for fifteen years before making a final rather
                    dramatic move to the Cherokee Outlet after the death of Maggie's mother. In 1883, three
                    years after Jake's and Maggie's departure from 
                        Sullivan County
                    , Mary and John Davis and Charles and Bell Myers nearly simultaneously left Indiana to
                    relocate in Walton Township, Harvey County, 
                        Kansas
                    . There the Davises would remain, but the Myers, four years later, made an ill-starred
                    foray into the frontier of western 
                        Kansas
                    . That effort a failure, in 1891 Charles and Bell retraced their steps somewhat and
                    reestablished themselves in Thayer County, 
                        Nebraska
                    , perhaps to be near Musa, their daughter who had "run away" and
                    married in 1889. Margaret Myers, Samuel's widow, remained in 
                        Vernon County
                    , living a rather typical nineteenth-century widow's life of dependency with
                    the families of her three children who lived there. As she aged, her letters became briefer and
                    increasingly more querulous. Her death in 1891, and the final migration of Jake and Maggie Harris to
                    Oklahoma four years later, bring the Myers letters to an appropriate close.
            It can certainly be argued that the move to Missouri was productive of neither satisfaction nor
                    security for Samuel or Margaret Myers. It led instead to an ultimately unfulfilling and fruitless
                    regime of very hard work at an advanced age and to frustration generated by the hard times of the
                    middle 1870s. Although 
                        Milton
                    's early death was probably not unexpected, Samuel could not have anticipated
                    the cancer that befell him before he died. The expenses that attended both 
                        Milton
                    's illnesses and Samuel's futile cancer treatment left the patriarch
                    with severely diminished resources at the time of his own demise. In spite of that, he was surely
                    buttressed by the support of his sons Nelson and especially Barnes, who remained in the
                    neighborhood, and by the concern of his other children.
            Nelson and Barnes Myers were able to do better than their father did in 
                        Vernon County
                    . Their properties were at the north edge of 
                        Nevada
                    , which was a growing community well into the 
                  
                     1 The first installment of Myers family correspondence is found in
                            Rodney O. Davis, ed., "A Hoosier Family Moves West, 1868–1895: Part
                            I," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI (March, 1990),
                            50–93. For background information on the Myers family and their correspondence,
                            see ibid., 50–57.
               
                    
                    
                  SAMUEL MYERS 1873
                  Courtesy Rodney O. Davis.
               
                    
                  MARGARET MYERS 1870s
                  Courtesy Clella Kelley.
               
                     twentieth century. After their final return to 
                        Nevada
                     from 
                        Kansas
                    , previously childless Nelson and Lucy adopted a daughter, and Nelson did extensive
                    market gardening. Barnes, on the other hand, never once left the area; he continued to farm
                    successfully and also benefited from increasing land values near 
                        Nevada
                    . In the third generation, Barnes's and Clem's son Lewis, born soon
                    after the devastating loss of their first child, was to become a director and vice-president of 
                        Nevada
                    's First National Bank.
            Maggie and Jake Harris never really took hold in 
                        Missouri
                    , staying as they did in three different 
                        Vernon County
                     locations while there. Furthermore, their early years in Oklahoma territory were
                    difficult, and although they were somewhat younger than Maggie's parents had been when
                    leaving Fairbanks in 1869, they nevertheless had to begin from scratch on a true frontier, in a
                    country previously unsettled by Europeans. By the time of their final move, however, they also had
                    adult children to help in the pioneering process. They were eventually able to build a comfortable
                    home, to acquire community status, and indeed to be locally revered as old settlers in their
                    advanced age. Perhaps significantly, Maggie established the community's first Sunday
                    School, which met in the family dugout.2 As was almost always the case with the
                    third generation of Samuel Myers's family, the Harris children rooted themselves near their
                    parents in their final home in 
                        Oklahoma
                    . Mary and John Davis stayed in the Walton area till their deaths; John eventually
                    abandoned storekeeping and took up farming again near the town. They and their sons, who also
                    remained in Harvey County, were respected members of a community that would be moderately
                    prosperous.
            Of all the children of Samuel and Margaret Myers, Charles and his wife Bell had the largest family to
                    raise. In retrospect, Charlie's optimism about his chances for success in western Kansas
                    seems almost pathetic; hindsight has demonstrated that he and Bell pushed their luck by migrating to
                    that sub-humid region in the mid-1880s. Consequently, like thousands of other immigrants who could
                    not support themselves in western 
                        Kansas
                    , in 1891 a middle-aged and somewhat disabled Charlie Myers took his family north and
                    east to rented land in 
                        Nebraska
                    , an older-settled region where he, Bell, and several of their children were to remain.
            Overall, the collection of Myers family correspondence reflects rather typical concerns of
                    transplanted Hoosiers; rarely is any of the correspondence speculative. Instead, family members
                    concerned themselves with more concrete topics, such as the amount of dried peaches or the extent of
                    a wet spring. Reading the letters almost a century later permits a rather easy understanding of the
                    range of emotion the migrating Myers family experienced.
            
               
                  2 Pawnee, 
                            Oklahoma
                        , Courier-Dispatch, February 3, 1927, February 11, 1943.
            
            
            
               Myers Family Tree
            
            
            [To Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                 
                              
                           
                                    December [1879]1
                           
                                
                        Dear Dauter
                        I sit down thes morning to anser letter we are all well at this time you wanted me to
                                    come out this winter but I cannot now we are looking for Nelson & Lucy every
                                    day he has sold out and moved it may be possible I may come in the spring I send by
                                    mail some stockings for Prudy and Foncy tell the other children that when I come I
                                    will bring them something
                        tell Mary that I have not forgot her and the children I think of you all I wish I was
                                    with you we have got the nicest baby you ever saw and we call him Lewis Hodge for
                                    his uncle2
                        
                        tell Charley Davis that I cannot send his dominoes by mail it costs too much but that
                                    when I come will bring them
                        tell Charles Myers his time will come nxt I would like to see the children and Bell
                                    Love to all
                        
                                    Margaret Myers …
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Terre Haute
                                  Ind
                           
                                    Feb 15 1880.
                                
                        Aunt Margret
                        I received your letter And we were all glad to heare from you once more and that you
                                    were all well
                        
                           
                              1 In order to allow the correspondents to speak for
                                        themselves, the second installment of the Myers family letters that follows has
                                        been minimally edited. Spelling, grammar, and syntax have been transcribed
                                        exactly as written. Although an attempt was made to determine the punctuation
                                        intended by each writer, it was virtually impossible to distinguish among
                                        commas, periods, pen rests, and blots. In addition, various family members used
                                        dashes, ditto marks, number signs, and lines of dots both within and at the end
                                        of sentences. Frequently there was no punctuation at all. In order to facilitate
                                        reading and avoid confusion, double spaces have been inserted between sentences
                                        whether or not any kind of punctuation appeared, and seemingly indiscriminate
                                        commas, ditto marks, number signs, etc., have been ignored. Decisions concerning
                                        vowels and capitalization were also at times necessarily arbitrary. Spacing of
                                        headings, salutations, paragraphs, and closings has been standardized. Obvious
                                        unintentional repetitions have been omitted. A three-or four-dot ellipsis
                                        indicates omission of a few words or sentences, while a line of dots signals
                                        omission of one or more paragraphs. Only occasionally were lengthy blocks of
                                        material omitted for their marginal importance. Information crowded in at the
                                        top or sides of the letters has usually been inserted as a postscript. Illegible
                                        words or phrases have been so indicated in brackets, and questionable
                                        transcriptions are followed by a bracketed question mark. An attempt has been
                                        made to identify all family members-013 as many other individuals as
                                        possible—to whom there is reference in the letters. Birth and death
                                        dates were taken from family Bibles and cemetery records or inferred from
                                        federal census manuscript records.
                           
                              2 Lewis Hodge Myers, named for his soldier uncle who was
                                        killed at 
                                 Little Rock, Arkansas
                              , with the 43rd
                                        Indiana Infantry in 1863, was Barnes's and Clem's second and
                                        only surviving child, born in August, 1879, only a few months after the death of
                                        their first son James.
                        
                        
                        We have had verry good health So far this mild winter. I saw Cousin Jake on the 13
                                    and had a talk with him and he said that he was favorable to coming oute but could
                                    not until fall on account of parties owing him and to collect it he will have to
                                    waite for the coming crops to get his pay.3 I advised him to go
                                    and settle and take theire notes and specify how they should be paid and then he
                                    could sell them or have them collected by others, he said that he was not in debt.
                                    But I tell you what I think its mere guess work that so many owing
                                    him leaves him short of ready money and I think that this is the trouble. I would
                                    write to Magy or Mary to find oute if it was So and then write to him. if need be to
                                    advance him monie to move on I asked him how he would go he said by rail and ship
                                    his Horses by rail. And another thing I would make a statement what each other would
                                    expect of one another in order to avoide confusion that may or might arise in coming
                                    events his cousin told me that Jake had said he wanted to go west and from our
                                    convesation he said the same And he thinks this a good oppertunity I told him that
                                    you wanted him and did not want to let Straingers have your place to ruin it I think
                                    he sees the it would be to his advantage to go to some place where he could
                                    accumulate land for his coming family. I think you can induce him to come I think it
                                    such a misfortune when an opertunity is opened up that young folk do not improve it.
                                    And I consider this a good one for him better than probly he will meet with again he
                                    likes you and said that he would have no difficulty in getting along. I will go for
                                    him again and if you wish for me to say any more to him send me word what to Say and
                                    I will do So.
                        If Geo Was Single I would advise you to have him to move to Some western town it
                                    might be the means of changing him to a new life and usefull to himself and
                                    children. If Charley is not doing well he ought to where he is and I think he is
                                    making it all right
                        
                                    Yours truly Love from all—
                                    W.B.M.4
                           
                                
                        I havent heard from Nels latley Tell Barnes never to whip a Horse or Mule And
                                    never get angry a Horse has to be trained to evey thing and when he is learned your
                                    wishes he will obey An Ellephant is tickled when his keeper gets Mad Its his
                                    shrewdness But not a Horse Kind …
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  3 This is the first intimation of the upcoming move of Jake and Maggie
                        Harris to 
                            Nevada
                         later in 1880 to live with Margaret Myers. A similar move had been contemplated
                        earlier; see Samuel Myers to Jacob Harris, September 21, 1876, in Rodney O. Davis, ed.,
                        "A Hoosier Family Moves West, 1868–1895: Part I," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI (March, 1990), 80.
               
                  4 The author is William B. Manning, a Myers relative from 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana. See Thomas J. Wolfe, ed., A History of 
                                Sullivan County
                            
                   … (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1909), 256–58.
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    March 10 [1880]
                                
                        Dear Daughter
                        I sit down to answer your letter that we received sometime ago we are all well at
                                    this time Barnes has moved to his self and I am liveing on the place I board with
                                    the family that rented the place I wish that Maggie had come out but if they do not
                                    want to come I do not want them to come to please me I had every thing to keep house
                                    with now I have nothing & Barnes have all I saved corn enough to doo them
                                    all summer but I have sold it to the man that has rented the place
                        I have not heard from Nelson for a long time they have sold out and moved farther
                                        west5
                        
                        I would like to come in and see you all but I so situated I cannot tell Maggie to
                                    wright and let me know how they are and I would like to heare from Charleys folks
                        Barnes lives too miles from me I havenot been over since they moved they have got the
                                    sweetest baby you ever saw
                        
                                    write soon
                                    Mother …
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Nevada
                           
                                    Mar. the 11. 80
                                
                        Dear Mary
                        Your Ma has been writing to you, and I will write you a line or two she came over to
                                    see us day before yesterday and we brought her home this morning, we wanted her to
                                    stay longer but as it is cold she thought she would rather come home, she has her
                                    room here at [illegible] and is more comfortably situated than she is with us. we
                                    tried to get her to go and stay with us but we have but two rooms and it is a little
                                    lonesome there and she did not think she could be satisfied there though I am sure I
                                    would do all I could to make it pleasant for her I think she has a very pleasant
                                    family on the place, but when she has children it does not seem right to be living
                                    with strangers. I do wish some of you there could come out and live with her. I
                                    think she would be better satisfied here than any other place now, and she would do
                                    a good part by any of you that would come. Barnes dont want nels to get possession
                                    of the place. We are living about two north east of here, and a quarter of mile
                                    north west of where Nels used to live on this side 
                              
                                 5 Nelson and Lucy had moved from Finley, Sedgwick
                                            County, 
                                                Kansas
                                            , to near Anthony, in Harper County, 
                                                Kansas
                                            .
                           
                                    
                                    
                              MIGRATIONS (WITH APPROXIMATE DATES) OF VARIOUS BRANCHES OF THE SAMUEL MYERS
                                                FAMILY
                              
                           
                                     of the creek Barnes is just ready to start to
                                    Town and I will have to stop writing please excuse poor writing and all mistake for
                                    I have written in a hurry please writ soon tell Mag she owes me a lette Love to all
                        
                                    Clem
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To John W. Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Terre Haute
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    June 4 1880
                                
                        Honbl John Davis P.M. of City Graysvill 
                                        Sullivan County
                                     Ind.
                        Mrs Aunt Margret Myeres of 
                                        Nevada
                                        Missouri
                                     arrived in this City on the 2d safe and in good health. She is stopping
                                    at the Manning Ranch No 412 on oake bet 4 & 5 street. And will be to happy
                                    to Visit her Children at the Earliest posible convenient moment. So govern your
                                    selves accordingly. I advised her not to go down on the Hack for fear of being
                                    crowed its not Safe or pleasent for old Folks to be tirede oute so We are all well
                                    and tell Cousin Marry—that we have a little Mery in our Wigwam to make
                                    nights hedious with her warbelings I must Klose for mail
                        
                                    You Truly
                                    Wiggie6
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Antheny Kansas
                           
                                    June 27 1880
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        Clem wrote to us for you some time ago & said you wer going to Ind hope you
                                    get through safe we are stil heere dont know how long we will remain heere Lucie is
                                    not satesfied heere shal sell out Just as soon as we can & make our selvs
                                    seff [safe?] It has ben quite dry heere until the twoe weeks we heve had plenty of
                                    rain, stock are looking fine heere, we heve not heerd from Mo for some time I guess
                                    they are all dead hope you will heve a good Visit wish we could be there with you
                                    give our love to John & Mary & Jake & Mag also Charly
                                    & Bell we wood like to heere from some of them what has becm[?] of Bill
                                    Maning hevent heerd from him for some time he ows me a letter how is times in Ind
                                    pleas write & tell us how they are all getting along hevent heerd from any
                                    of them for so long that I dont know any thing about any of them where is George now
                                    well Ma I dont know what to write that wood Interest any of you Lucy will write some
                                    my love to all Inquiry friends tell them I am comeig to Ind when I get rich I hope
                                    you will write to us soon & give us the news.
                        
                                    Yours Truly
                                    Nels
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  6 "Wiggie" is William B. Manning.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Mother
                        this is monday morning and Nels is just ready to start to town I have nothing of
                                    interest to write you We have had a poor season to raise anything so far. have no
                                    garden to speak of no flowers only what I have in the house they are doing well. I
                                    have twenty young turkeys about forty young chickens I didn't try to raise
                                    many as feed is so scarce; we have three young canary birds. Give my love to Mary
                                    and Maggie and all the rest of our folks I suppose Homer is almost a man by this
                                    time we would like to hear from any of them
                        
                                    Please write soon
                                    Lucy Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                    Missouri
                                
                              
                           
                                    July the 14 1880
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        we recived youre letter of the 6 it found us all well. was glad to here that you was
                                    well, in my last letter that is in Clems last letter we Spoke of wheat land for Jake
                                    if he wanted it I had Spoke to Mr Tillotson for his wheat land and he Said that I
                                    could have it for Jake, but as Mag Said to git 10 acers I cant git any if I dont
                                    take all and there is 22 acers in the peace, and I will tell him that I Shant take
                                    it. I think he wants to much rent. To suit me to rent for Someone Else, you can tell
                                    Mag that we bought hur 2 doz cans for black Berry 1 doz half galens and 1 doz quart
                                    cans and have got 20 quats cand and will can some more to day we have some trouble
                                    to get berrys as the old folks7 caps [keeps] them picked as fast
                                    as they git ripe
                        Mother I think that you aught to come back as Soon as you can for if you dont they
                                    will git away with all of the fruit as I think from what I can See they Supply all
                                    of their friends with fruit and as Soon as the graps and apples gits ripe they will
                                    give them away. the peaces they want all of them they want to dry anuf to do them
                                    through the winter. the hales are abought all gon now and Severl other kinds that
                                    will bee ripe in a few dayes. all kinds of fruit is riping at least one week to 10
                                    dayes Sooner than comen this year, and if you dond come they will git the most if
                                    not all that is on the place. I am goin to try to Sel Some of them blue plumbs to
                                    Mrs Tillotso[n] this after noon for if I dont git them away Soon they 
                              
                                 7 This is probably a reference to the tenants on
                                            Margaret Myers's farm outside 
                                                Nevada
                                            .
                           
                                     will give them away, finished Stacking Oats
                                    this morning, weather warme Corne looks verry good, come Home as son as you can
                        
                                    S.B. [Barnes] Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada City
                                
                              
                           
                                    Oct. 8 [1880]
                                
                        Dear Sister
                        I Sit down to write to you. this leavs us all well you must not think hard of us for
                                    not writing sooner I could not git Jake to write and I dident feel like it Ma is
                                    well hir & Barny & Jake is gathering Apples to day we are living in
                                    the Sellar and it hant very plesent but I hope we wont have to stay in it long for
                                    the famly is talking of leaving.8 we have too beeds up in
                                    Ma's room and a trunle bed we are a rite smart crouded but we git along
                                    prity well the children is gitting fat you aught to here Jodie tell what him and Pa
                                    is going to do we got here in time to dry a bushel of peaches and I pealed them I
                                    caned thirteen gallons Ma wants to no if you will pay the frate on some dryed
                                    peaches if she will send you some thay are pealed Clem was here yesterday thay are
                                    all well I wish you was here to See the Apples thay have got gatherd. When you write
                                    I want you to tell us if Litt Dilly has got thare and all the news I sopose you are
                                    all having a good time goin to the big ralys I want you to write and tell me about
                                    them and how the glee Club is gitting along and it they have got that fine flag
                                        don9 We are gitting along fine we have plenty to eat we have
                                    plenty of fruit and plenty of potatoes and I dont think we will starve. tell Charly
                                    he aught to be here to help Jodie pick up apples to make Sider to make Apple butter
                                    he will turn to a big apple yet Charly & Linman [?] must Com over and git a
                                    drink of Sider I got a letter from Sadie yesterday She said She had Seen you I wants
                                    you to give us all the news when you write I must quit for it hurts me to write Ma
                                    is sitting a nitting and She said for you to answer this rite away for She wanted to
                                    here the news fo Fairbanks the boys and Ma & Clem & children is
                                    talking of going to git peacons Sunday. I gess I will stay at home and keep house;
                                    give my love to all inquiring friends if we have any write soon
                        
                                    Maggie Harris
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  8 Jake and Maggie Harris had made their move to 
                            Nevada
                         before this letter was written; they obviously were doubling up with the tenants on
                        Margaret Myers's farm.
               
                  9 The partisan Harrises were already nostalgic about Democratic rallies in
                        Indiana in the Winfield S. Hancock—019 A. Garfield contest in 1880.
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada City
                                
                              
                           
                                    Nov 7 [1880]
                                
                        Dear Sister
                        I sit down to answer you letter this leaves us all well Mary Nels & Lucie is
                                    up here on a visit thay are well Lucie is as big as you are and Nels is as big as
                                    Charly Earnest thay have bin her too weeks thay Intend to start home tuesday thay
                                    have gon to meeting Ma went with them she hant bin very well she had the Sore Eyes
                                    very bad and it made hir look very bad She did talk of goin home with Nelson but she
                                    has got out of the notion he is talking of mooving back here this winter Barnes
                                    & Clem was here this morning thay went to Church and Jake went with them we
                                    are having very pleasent weather here yet we hant had any bad weather at all we are
                                    needing rain very much at the present time it is very warm to day the Children is
                                    out at play Jodie is as fat as a bear and has grown lots since we left fairbanks I
                                    will have to tell Charly about Jodies flag he raised it in the yard and the famly
                                    that livs in the house with us is garfield folks and thay have a calf and it got in
                                    the yard and eat his flag up he was the madest boy you ever saw he said that old
                                    fool garfield Calf had to eat his Handcock flag up he said he never did like that
                                    calf and he never would now. you wouldent no Prudie she is so fat and has growin so
                                    she eats so much that Ma gits scairt some times and thinks it will kill hir. Ponnie
                                    hant any fleashy She was when we left thair she wont git to go to school this winter
                                    I recon that the Children will learn ever thing thair is to be learned this winter
                                    at fairbanks thay have such a Smart teacher to go to I want you to write and tell me
                                    where Nin and Olie is keeping house I dident think that thay would git Married
                                    attall we hant got any letter from grand Pa for a good while I thought thay would
                                    write as soon as thay got home from Tyres but thay I will write to them in a fiew
                                    days I will have to quit for this I will finish some other time. Nov 12. I will
                                    finish to day as Jake is goin to town to day we are all well this morning Ma eyes is
                                    better than thay was when I first wrote we had a big frost last night but it is warm
                                    and pleasent to day Mary. Nels & Lucie left here last tuesday thay bought
                                    them a piece of land before thay left and are coming back in a bout five weeks to
                                    stay we want you to write and let us no how Charly and famly is I hant got to write
                                    to them yet but I intend to soon I have the rheumatism so bad in my hands and armes
                                    I cant hardly write any at all
                        write soon I will write som for Jodie Jodie says to tell Charly that him and Pa went
                                    over to Barneys and got a lot of walnuts and he is hulling them and he wish that him
                                    and homer was her to help him thay would have a big tim
                        
                                    Mag
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    March [1881]
                                
                        Dear Mary
                        I sit down this morning to anser your letter at last we have been so crowwded this
                                    winter that we didnot know what to doo with ourselves but we have got the house to
                                    our selves now
                        the family are all well now Maggy has bin sick with the newralgy but is well again My
                                    health has been bad all winter had very bad cold we have had a very cold
                                    disagreeable winter I should like to see you all but do not think that I can come
                                    back soon I will have nothing to come back with this summer Jake is fixen to farm
                                    now
                        Nelson has come back and has bought some land of Mr Logan and bilt a house on it I do
                                    not know what he came back for and I never asked him him and Lucy have got large and
                                    fleshy that you would hardly know them
                        Barney and Clem are well and also their baby they are doing very well
                        I am glad you have got a home of your own Mag wanted me to ask you if you answed her
                                    too last lettrs if you did she never got them and she would not wright till she new
                        how is Charleys folks I have not heard from them for a long time
                        You got your peaches at last how did you like them did Charley get his I didnot send
                                    him as many as I did you because he had of his own
                        if you can read this anser it but I think it doutful I havent rote but one letter
                                    since I acame hem [home] before
                        
                                    Mother
                                
                        I would like to hear from all the old friends
                     
                  
               
                
            [To John W. Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                    Missouri
                                
                              
                           
                                    April th 14, 1881
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        we received your letter the other day and would have answered before now. but Barnes
                                    was very sick at the time, and he is not able to be up yet. but is some better, he
                                    was taken sick last Sunday with conjestion of the stomach, hope he will soon get up
                                    again. We will send your $15,00 in this letter, and want you to send us
                                    as much sugar as it will pay for. and pay the freight on it. We want cake sugar.
                                    Barnes says to get it if [of] Charlie if he has it to spare be sure to get good
                                    sugar who ever you get it from get it and send it as soon as you can
                        
                        Grandma has been here since Sunday but she is getting very anxious to go home she
                                    says tell Mary she would like her to answer the letter she wrote her we will expect
                                    all the news when you send the sugar
                        
                                    Yours Truly
                                    Clem …
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                
                              
                           
                                    July 30 [1881]
                                
                        Dear Sister
                        I have wated and wated till I have got tired and I thought I would write once agin I
                                    have never got but one letter from you since we com here and if you wrote I diden
                                    git it thair is a nother Maggie Harris here and I got som of her letters but I
                                    returned them and if she got any of mine she diden return them and if you wrote she
                                    got them we have rented a box in the ofice and thair hant any danger of gitting the
                                    letters lost. drect your letters to Box 62. this leaves us all well but Ma she hant
                                    bin very well for a fiew weeks I think it is the warm weather it is very warm and
                                    dry we need rain very bad. it has bin the warmest I ever saw. things is all dying
                                    for want of rain. Mary I hope you are pleased with your new home and I recon you
                                    have a nice place to rais chickens I hant had very good luck this sumer with my
                                    chickens the chigars killed lots of them but I have a good many yet. thair hant very
                                    much fruit this sumer afiew Peaches the apples is all falling off thair is rite
                                    smart of graps we have a big Water mellon patch and som very nice mellons thay are
                                    ripe you and the boys step over and eat som with us. Jodie wants Charly to com and
                                    bring his wagon and thay will goo and git a wagon load the Children hant forgot the
                                    good old times thay use to have I herd them talking about Charly and Homer to day
                                    and wonderd if Charly had his torch yet Jodie says he would like to see Aunt Mary
                                    and he wants you to tell Charly to write to him Prudie said she would like to see
                                    Homer Ponie is as poor as a snake she went three Month to school this summer She had
                                    too miles to go and had to go part of the time by hir self. Mary, Ma is talking of
                                    coming out thair to spend part of the winter if she can. Ma is not a tall stout this
                                    summer she hant hardly able to go. She dont stay here all the time she goes Barny
                                    & Nelsons and stays som times a weak at a time. Barny & Clem is both
                                    well. Mary thay have one of the Mischievious boys you ever saw Clem cant have any
                                    thing for him he can tare up faster than Clem can fix up thay hant any thing he dont
                                    think of he is a prity boy little bit of a feller dont look like he could do any
                                    thing but he is quick as though[t] Jake is plowin for wheat we hant thrashed yet. Ma
                                    says for you to write to hir agin it is so hard for hir to write and she hant felt
                                         like writing. Mary you must write to hir
                                    for she like to git your letters, tell Homer to write to me and I will answer it for
                                    him to tell how he likes his new home tell Charly to write to Jodie I will quit for
                                    this time write soon love to all. direct to Box 62. Mary I have one of the nices
                                    babys you ever saw10 he is twist as big as Jodie was at his age
                                    he is very good can go where he please.
                        
                                    Mag Harris
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Septeber th 4 81
                                
                        Dear Daughter
                        I sit down this morning to anser your letter after so long a time we are not all well
                                    and not very sick able to be about we have had a long hot and dry summer hear had a
                                    verry good reign las week you wanted to hear from Nelson and Lucy, they live at the
                                    sulpher springs have bought 30 acres of land and improven it if you get sick all you
                                    have to do is to come out to the sulpher springs and get well
                        I hear from you sometimes throgh Maggs letters She gets a letter about once a week
                                    and if I ask her She tell how you are if Mrs Pounds wrights enny thing about you I
                                    never see her letters
                        Barnes is well but Clem has the reumatism in her knee so bad she cant hardly get
                                    around Lewie is well Barnes and Jacob are verry busy preparing for wheet soing they
                                    have got through thrashing and haying and will soon be ready for corn gathering
                        I got that shugr that you and Charles sent me and was glad of it and I gave the cake
                                    to Nelson as directed also one of the cakes sent me
                        I hadent any use for it Barnes and Mag had plenty of their one Lucy says that she
                                    would like to see you all
                        I would like to see you all verry mutch I do not now if shall come in this fall or
                                    not
                        Tell Mrs Earnest I hope she is well and I send my best respects to her and hers I
                                    would like to hear from Charlesis family
                        Right soon and tell all the news
                        
                                    Mother
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Febuary [1882]
                                
                        Dear Mary
                        After so long atime I take my pen in hand to right you afew lines to let you know we
                                    are all well as usual at this time we got home 
                              
                                 10 James G. Harris was born on November 30,
                                        1880.
                           
                                     all right and found all well I had a notion to
                                    come back but thought it would look dad [bad] to come so soon I have not been to
                                    Barneses but once sinse I came back and I do not care about going there Clem is very
                                    cool she lays all of the blame on me for not staying She says that she said to stay
                                    but enough of that
                        Nelsons and Lucy are well I have bin staying with them some this winter they have got
                                    a comfortable place to live. I like to stay with them …
                        I want you to right and tell me all the news let me know how Ida Andersen is
                        I have not heard from Aunt Paulina since I came home if you hear [?] from her rite
                                    and tell me how she is
                        Nothing More
                        
                                    Mother
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis and Children]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    March the 5 [1882–1883]
                                
                        Dear Cousian Charly
                        ithougt i wold answer your letter Come out and see us i could read nearly all your
                                    letter Prudy sad she would like to see you and have abig play with you you said you
                                    could not see shoe what did you mean by that you said that you would like to have
                                    mine and Prudy picturs i wold like to have yours and see how big you ar if you dont
                                    think Jimie is aprity boy just come and see he is one of the nices boys our school
                                    is out we had lots of fun and tha wer lots there Jody woud not go we had nice
                                    weather for 2 oar 3 days and now it is cloudy weather right soon
                        
                                    F[lorence]
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear aunt Mary
                        cme out and see us ma is pealong apples and i am setting in the rocken char righting
                                    Prudy is setting on the sheep skinn marking on the slate Jim is stang in the chaer
                                    watching ma pal apples right soon ican not right any more for Jodie will hafto get
                                    ma to right fer him iwoul like to see Homer Aunt Mary from Florence11
                        
                        I recon we now wouldent no Homer he has groed so much good after noon Charly. I have
                                    just got dun eating my dinner and will git Ma to write som for me. Well Charly I
                                    think them rabbits you sent me was rite nice was they Jack rabbits or cotton tail
                                    rabbits you bring your dog and com out home with grand Ma and we will 
                              
                                 11 The letter is continued by Maggie Harris for
                                        Joel.
                           
                                     go a hunting and maby we will katch a rabbit. I
                                    am sewing Carpet rags, write soon
                        
                                    Jodie
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                        Nevada City
                                    
                              
                           
                                    Dec 5 [1880–1883]
                                
                        Dear Sister
                        we Sent you your Peaches that Ma wanted to send you and we Sent grand Pas som in the
                                    box thay are marked and I sent Mrs Pounds some thay are marked Mary we sent som
                                    apples to all of you grand Pas we couldent git in the Sack So we put them in loose
                                    and you can give them to him I cant write any more for I hant able to this leaves Ma
                                    well Ma Says your frate will be one dollar we paid the frate for the others I hope
                                    this will find you all well the children is all well love to all tell grand Ma I
                                    will write to hir Soon
                        write soon
                        
                                    Mag
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Monday Night March [1883]
                                
                        Dear Sister
                        I sit down to nite to answer your letter, this leaves us all well, all but Prudie she
                                    has a boil on hir back it is very sore it is raining to night, the Children is all
                                    gon to bed and Jake is Setting reading the Enquire Nels & Lucie was here
                                    last week one day thay are well Nels helped Jake one day hall hay he has bin halling
                                    hay for too weeks and hant dun yet he gits four dollars a tunn. Barny and Clem was
                                    here yesterday thay are well I hant bin any place since Ma left so I dont no any
                                    thing to write to hir about tell hir Jake has got all the grape vines trimed. I have
                                    got a quilt up I have it half out it is a wosterd quilt. Mary you said in your
                                    letter that I rote like it was you that told Jake what Clem said no Jake said you
                                    dident say any thing to him about it to him it was Bell and Rose that told him and
                                    others as well but Jake said he dident see you after he herd it Rose said she had
                                    talked to you as well as to others that was the reason I wrote to you but it dont
                                    make no diference what she said, tuesday morning it rained very hard here last night
                                    and is prity cool this morning tell Ma that Jimmie goes to the window ever day to
                                    see if Grand Ma is coming and makes a grate to do about it he is fat as a pig I am
                                    goin to git his picture taken and I will send it to you he  looks like Little Alice I think he is big of his age I
                                    dont no if I will ever git him weaned
                        
                                    write soon
                                    Mag
                                
                        I wade Jimmie this morning and he wayes Thirty two pounds does Ma no when she
                                    is coming home Jake said tell John to com past this summer if he goes west and see
                                    us
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hutchinson
                           
                                    Aug 8/83
                                
                        Well Mary I got here about Six oclock all Right but so tired that I cannot stand I
                                    think I have traveled over Some of the nicest Country I ever Saw as well as I could
                                    tell, now the corn looks well Wheat and oats Splendid I am going to look around here
                                    afew days and then go to See Jonahs Country12
                        
                        I am Sixty five miles South west of him as I am So tired and Blind with cinders in my
                                    Eyes I will close
                        If you get this Saturday and want to write to me Monday Direct to Waltin Hary County 
                                        Kansas
                                    
                        
                        It is So dark I cant see the lines.
                        
                                    J W Davis
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Walton
                           
                                    Aug 15/83
                                
                        Well Mary I received your letter this Morning and was glad to hear from you I am all
                                    Right with the Exception of the Diareah I left Hutchinson on Saturday and came to
                                    Jonahs, they are all well and fat I like the country here better than Reno County
                                    But the lands are higher here I have not Bought any Place yet have found Some that
                                    Suits me Pretty Well. But my not having the money withe me is going to Bother me
                                    about Buying. I Shall not Be home Before the 24th I dont think We have had two good
                                    Rains since I came hear the crops are Just Bully I have saw Oats that made 100 Bu to
                                    the acre. Wheat from 15 to 40 and the corn is fine I think that Charly has the Blues
                                    But dont tell Bell so13
                        
                        
                           
                              12 John W. Davis had concluded to leave 
                                            Sullivan County
                                         and was on a land-buying trip to south-central 
                                            Kansas
                                        . According to state and federal census data, Jonah Harris,
                                        Jacob's brother, had moved to Walton Township from Fairbanks Township
                                        after 1880. John Davis had farmed outside Fairbanks and had run a store in town.
                                        U.S., Tenth Census, 1880, Population Schedules for 
                                            Sullivan County
                                        , Indiana, p. 466; and 
                                            Kansas
                                        , State Manuscript Census, 1885, Vol. 110, Walton Township, Harvey
                                        County, p. 34.
                           
                              13 Charlie Myers may have been on this land-buying trip,
                                        too; by the winter of 1883–1884 he and his family were living in
                                        Walton Township. See Charles Myers to Margaret Myers, February 24, 1884,
                                    below.
                        
                        
                        You need not Write me any more unless Something gets the matter. It is very warm hear
                                    hoping this to find You all Well I will close I woul like to tell you more But I
                                    will wait untill I get home. I must quit as I want to go to the country to look at
                                    Some farms14…
                        
                                    JWD
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                    Missouri
                                ,
                           
                                    November 17, 1883
                                
                        Dear Mary
                        I will try to answer your letter which was recieved in due time. I was glad to hear
                                    from you once more also glad you was all well and pleased with your new home I think
                                    you have a very good start for a new Country I am well as usual am liveing at
                                    Nelson's this winter.
                        I suppose you have heard that Maggie has made a visit to Indiania this fall she was
                                    gone four weeks
                        I did not dry any fruit this summer Barne's' and Mag's and
                                    Nels' are all well as usual No Mary it is not near so far from where you
                                    live here at it was from Fairbanks hope you will think it near enough to make us a
                                    visit when you get straigtened up a little. Tell Charlie I will write to him soon
                                    tell him to come and see us as soon as he can we would be glad to see him. Write
                                    soon. From your Mother
                        
                                    Margaret Myers …
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Walton, Harvy, Co. Kansas
                           
                                    February 24th '84
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        I received your leter I Was glad to hear from you and was glad to know that I was
                                    Clear of any offence to you for I felt very bad about your last letter Mary denes of
                                    Saying any thing to you about the money you told me about It when you was out but I
                                    had forgot It and as for the money I Sent to Father I dont Clame any thing but If
                                    you have more money than you want at the present If 
                              
                                 14 Late in August, John Davis bought eighty improved
                                            acres in Walton Township for $750; the land lay two miles north
                                            of the Santa Fe railroad, which crosses Harvey County. He and his family
                                            moved to Kansas soon after. Harvey County had been well settled for as long
                                            as twelve years; unbroken Santa Fe lands were still for sale, but no public
                                            land was available for free homestead entry or preemption at the
                                            government's minimum price of $1.25 per acre. Historical Atlas of Harvey County (
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1882), 21.
                           
                                     you will Send me fifty dollars I will pay you
                                    ten persent for It tell the last of July for I have bilt a hous on my place an It
                                    took all the money I had Sow I will want feed [seed] to raise a Crop I have 30 acrs
                                    of wheat which looks well If you will make this lone to me you will be well paid for
                                    It you can Send by register leter to Walton Harvy County, Kan I will move thursday
                                    this leaves all well Levi Says that he Is fat and Saucy he ways 116 Pounds15 all of the children Is harty the baby can Run every whers I
                                    think I will like this cuntry very well and if I can get Off I will come to See you
                                    this fall I could tell you more If I Could See you for I am a pore writer I rote to
                                    Jake & mag but havent heard from them only by you give my respects to all I
                                    will Close for this time hoping to hear from you Soon
                        
                                    Charles Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Well Ma we all went over to are new House to Day It look like we Will soon have A
                                    Home of are own again we have got anice place I think we are all well pleased with 
                                        Kansas
                                     I think It is Healthy Here than It is in Indana dont Here of much
                                    sickness Here only bad colds I have had and auful cold an caugh but am better I got
                                    A letter from Mollie last week she said Ma was not well It has bin A hard Winter one
                                    old people thare It has bin so cold and is raing thare now all the time I guess I
                                    will close for this time give my repects to all.
                        
                                    Bell
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Walton
                           
                                    Nov the 27 [1884]
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        It has ben a long time since I wrote to you. but I had not forgot you. there is not a
                                    day but I think of you I did want to come out to See you all this winter while you
                                    was all together, times is so hard that I could not git off. you no youre self how
                                    it is going to a new place, we raised plenty of every thing but can not sell fore
                                    eny price hardly oure corne is making 45 to 50 bu to AC. as good as we ever rased an
                                    it sells fore 18. ct p. buss we have 25 head of hogs, but they are no price
                        
                           
                              15 Levi Myers was a son of Charles and Bell Myers. He was
                                        named for his uncle who died of unknown causes in Fairbanks, Indiana, five days
                                        after his brother Lewis died in the Civil War. See note 2 above. Charlie and
                                        Bell were not to remain for long in Walton Township. Heeding the profoundly
                                        misleading call that "rain follows the plow," they moved
                                        farther west, probably in 1887, to Scott County, 
                                            Kansas
                                        . Walton, 
                                            Kansas
                                        , Independent, May 17, 1887.
                        
                        
                        well Ma you Said in Charleys letter that Jake an Mag had got them afarme.16 where is it an when do they move, an what did they pay fore
                                    it an where are you going to Stay you Said Nels was going to leave it is so harde
                                    fore me to write I wish I could be with you all a shorte time I could talk
                        well Ma Charley Said he would write to you all the news an I do not no what to write
                                    Mrs Dilley come out heare on a visit an got Sick an died at John Drakes, it was hard
                                    on them. I belive that the hel[t]h of all the Famlys that come from Fairbank are
                                        good17 I see in oure Sullivan paper that the old Settlers
                                    are dying of fast there, we got oure paper to day I see Peggie Alkire is ded. I was
                                    sorry to heare it you said you had had pore helth this winter. What seamed to be the
                                    mater with you Ma well I do not no what more to write
                        The Boys is going to school they are both well an fat
                        Charley thinks he would like to see Mags children so well
                        This leaves us all well hoping it will fine you all the Same, write soon an a long
                                    letter
                        
                                    Mary
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    December th 21 84
                                
                        Dear Mary
                        I am all alone and I thou I would anser your letter I was waiting to see how thing
                                    would turn up Jake has moov from my place he bought a place and he has 80 achors and
                                    paid,800,hundred dollars for it he paid,400,hundred down for it Mary they have not
                                    done right with me atall they got mad because they could not get all of the place
                                    for nothing I hear that he rote the folks that the boys was trying to run him off
                                    but there is nothing of it they nver inerfeard wih my bisness I have settled with
                                    him and paid all that I owed him about 40 dollars
                        Mary I shall not tell him they have used me if you wear hear I could tell you they
                                    have got another baby girl and they call it Dolly18 I let
                                    Charles have 40 dollars last spring and told him to pay John 25 when he could and I
                                    would send the other ten as soon as I could now I will send you the ten dollars and
                                    he can pay you the 15 and that will settle that debt
                        
                           
                              16 See the next letter for more particulars about this
                                        move by Jake and Maggie Harris.
                           
                              17 John and Mary Davis and Charles and Bell Myers were not
                                        the only 
                                            Sullivan County
                                         folk to move to Harvey County, 
                                            Kansas
                                        , in the 1880s.
                           
                              18 Dollie Harris had been born the previous month.
                        
                        
                        I am sorry you feel so hard with the boys they have done nothing to be slited for
                        Nelsons is going to move to Cansas as soon as the weather will admit and I shall stay
                                    at Barnes for a while I would like to see you you have heard one side of the storry
                                    I would like you to hear myne …
                        
                                    Mother
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers and Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Veron Co. Mo
                           
                                    [1886]
                                
                        Dear Mother & Sister
                        I recieved your letter last week but hant had a chance to write for the Children has
                                    bin sick Prudie was sick to days last week and Dollie was sick three it just loks
                                    lik I cant git them well I giv the medison as the doctors directs me to dollie said
                                    yesterday that she had got well and wanted to go and see grand Ma: and Aunt Mary she
                                    thought you was at Barnys yet I hant saw Clem or Barny since you left the rest of
                                    the famly is all well thay are don making molasses and I am glad of it Jake and
                                    Jodie has gon to gathering Corn this morning it has turned prity cold and the wing
                                    has bin blowing hard for too days and is still blowing I hant got much to write
                                    would like to here from you agin soon give our love to all tell the boys we would
                                    like to see them Dollie sends a kiss to grand Ma and Aunt Mary she wanted to no of
                                    me the other morning if Old rony was up and I told hir yes then she said that Old
                                    rony was a good girl and Jim liked to hurt his self lafing to think she called hir a
                                    girl write soon
                        
                                    Magg …
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers and Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dec. 21 [1886]
                                    
                              Clear Creek. 
                                    Vernon County
                                 Mo
                           
                                
                        Dear Mother and Sister
                        I recieved your welcom letter last week. Was glad to here from you and that you was
                                    all well. I am glad Ma that you are having such good helth and are injoying your
                                    visit, dollie was sick when I got your letter I think it is wormes but she is better
                                    now She is sitting on the floor reading out of a paper, this leaves us all well at
                                    this time but I dont no how long it will last for the Children is sick so much Jimie
                                    took sick rite away after I rote to you and was sick about five weeks he is able to
                                    go to school this week he miss the first too weeks. Prudie looks bad but she is goin
                                    to school she wont go when it is bad weather she says She feels bad all the time  but I thought it wouldent hurt hir to go while
                                    it is prity weather and she wants to go so bad. we have had the nices fall I ever
                                    saw we hant had any snow yet Mary you wanted to no if Gorge and Nett had bin to see
                                    us. no thay hant. Jake was in town three weeks ago and he saw Mr Tilitson, and he
                                    told Jake that thay was at Nelses, and was coming to town the next day and that is
                                    all I no I looked for them down to see us but thay dident com and I dont no if thay
                                    are still out or not. was thay down to see you you dident say in your letter I dont
                                    no why thay dident com I hant saw Barny or Clem since I was up thare with you the
                                    Childrin has bin sick so much that we dont git to go any wher and I am nearly wore
                                    out wating on them I feel just about like I did when you was here, well Mary you
                                    wanted to no if our old hog Well she has got so she can walk some but that is all I
                                    dont no wheather she will ever got any better or not the rest of our hogs is doing
                                    well all of my turkys dyed but four I sold them or thay would have dyed to I had
                                    thought I would have a little money when I sold all of them and it was a little sure
                                    Jake is don gathering corn he is hailing wood to day. Well. Hommer & Charly
                                    Jodie dident go a rabbit hunting thanks given but he went a Oposum hunting that nite
                                    and caught A Whapon, big posum. com over ang go with him som nite. he caught a big
                                    pole cat in his steeltrap the other nite. Jodie and his pa went and gathers a bushel
                                    of peacones the other day so thay have lots of nut thay have walnuts and hazle nuts
                                    and peacones Ponnie said tell you that hir and hir tuby boy was all rite and when
                                    she got him thay would com down and see Grand ma and Aunt Mary. Ma Alice Bolin has a
                                    big girl at hir house. I will have to quit write soon we send our repects to Aunt
                                    Luisa and Hellen and all the rest is Aunt Luisa helth good, dollie says tell grand
                                    ma she likes hir and hant forgot hir she wanted to go up to Barny the other day to
                                    see grandma and Aunt Mary she thought you was thare yet
                        
                                    [Maggie]
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Clear Creek
                           
                                    December 24 [1886]
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        I recieved your letter tuesday and was glad to here from you and that you was well
                                    this dont leave us very well Jake has bin sick for a week and part of the time
                                    confined to the bed I dont no what is the matter with him he has a caugh and Dollie
                                    has bin sick all week just like she always is I think it is wormes but She is awful
                                    sick she is awful cross Poore little thing dont no any thing but to be sick She
                                    cryed so for a doll that I got one for hir and hir and Prudie is dressing it this
                                    morning she has a very sore  mouth the rest of
                                    the famly is well Prudie is looking better than she has looked since She got well we
                                    have bin having som very cold weather and som snow but we are gitting use to it so
                                    we dont mind it Barny and Clem was down last week the first time since you left thay
                                    was well thay said that Gorge and Nett had bin out thare too differnt since thay
                                    went to Boarding thay hant never bin to see us yet I dont no why thay hant Barny
                                    said thay had com to stay and thare wasnt no end to Netts talking but I gess she
                                    will have to talk prity fast if she gits a head of Barny
                        I got a letter from Mrs Pound the same day I got yours thay was all well and grand ma
                                    was well she said that Levy wasent thare and thay had jus got a letter from Bell and
                                    thay hadent herd from him since you was thare well I dont no as thare is any thing
                                    else to write this time
                        Jodie said tell Charly that he is goin to town on a Christmas Bust, he has a lot of
                                    rabbits to take to town he is in a big way. Ma I was glad to git your Present I hope
                                    you will have a nice Christmas I was sorry to here of Mrs Hunt death we all send a
                                    merry Christmas to you write soon and let us no how you are tell Mary to write
                        
                                    as ever
                                    Maggie and family …
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Clear Creek
                           
                                    Jan. 12 [1887]
                                
                        Dear Sister
                        I sit down this morning to answer your welcom letter that I got last week but Prudie
                                    and dollie was both sick and I dident git a chance to write till now and I wanted to
                                    wate till thay got better before I wrote to you thay are better now. Prudie has bin
                                    out of school too weeks she looks wors than I ever saw hir she dont complan of any
                                    thing but hir head she sets from morning till nite and frets to think she cant go to
                                    school I dont think that goin to school agrees with hir. Jake has got well he was
                                    prity sick for a while the rest of the famly is well but me I have a bad cold we are
                                    having very bad weather at present it is raining sleetting snowing and freezing all
                                    to day I dont no what it will be by tomorrow. Mary. George and Nett was here
                                    yesterday the first time you would hardly no george he is looking so old and poore
                                    his whiskers and hair is allmost white he is working in a carriage shop in 
                                        Nevada
                                     but Nett is the same big mouth thing she always was it would kill me to
                                    have to live in the same house with hir. hir and Barny has it hot and heavy it is
                                    rite funy to here Barny tell how he talks to hir
                        Jodie dident go to school to day he go so wet helping to milk and feed that he should
                                    stay at home and dry his clothes so when  he got
                                    his self dry he went and set his quail trap and he just went out to it and thare was
                                    a whole gang of quails in it but in falling it dident fall down flat and thay was
                                    coming out but he got three he set it a gin thay are ten cents a piece. friday
                                    Morning it is very cold froze hard last nite it is as slick as glass Jodie caught
                                    five more quails and one rabbit he says tell Charly to beet that if he can I dont no
                                    how Barny & Clem is I hant seen them but once and I hant bin up thare Since
                                    you left we cant all be well long anuf to go any where. I was sorry to here that you
                                    had a cold Ma but I hope that you are well by this time I would like to here from
                                    you Ma if you dont feel like writing have Mary to write I dont no of any thing to
                                    write so I will close for this time, love to all and write soon
                        
                                    Maggie
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    May the 18 1888
                                
                        Dear Aunt Mary
                        I seat my self to let you no how we are getting long I am staying at Aunt Clems now I
                                    came up here last Teusday and grandma got me to answer her letter for her she is
                                    well she said that you wanted to no how we are the Children hav all had the hooping
                                    cough this spring but are all better now Jimie has had the Jermen measles aunt Clems
                                    folks are all well it has ben cloudy all week and we had a big rain last night it
                                    has ben cold nearly all spring we have had a few warm days answer soon
                        
                                    Respectively
                                    Your Neice
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Cousin Hommer I will wrte you a few lines how did you enjoy the party that you went
                                    to when you got home are did you go and who got the prise a hemming apron I have ben
                                    to two paties sence you left and ben to two are three Dances well Hommer do you
                                    think that you and Charly will come out here this fall and do you think that you
                                    will be out here next leap year to go to a party
                        we have souldout this spring I dont no where we will go19 we sold
                                    out to a man living out there by the name of Kerlas well I gess I will haf to quit
                                    now I cant think of any more to write
                        
                                    Your Cousin
                                    Florence
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  19 This would be the second move made by Jake and Maggie Harris after
                        arriving in Missouri in 1880.
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 20 88
                                
                        Mary I received your letter and was glad you ware all well the connectian are all
                                    well at this time you rote that you wanted a hundred dollars if I could spair it I
                                    have too many calls for money I cannot suply them all you wanted me to come and live
                                    with you you do not think I could come I do not think I shall ever come back thear I
                                    do not see how you can expect it after what past last winter if you want to see me
                                    you will hav to come and see me
                        
                                    Mother
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Pence Kans20
                              
                           
                                    Jan 31th 1889
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        I arrived home on Saturday. I was very tired found all well the children was very
                                    proud over ther pecans and apples there Is a big Snow laying on the ground Now It
                                    fell two weeks agou, last Monday levi went In the Shops and made Sleds for the
                                    nabors thay caught an antelope with there dogs Levi has gon on a hunt now he went
                                    over on the Smokey River Musa is very proud of her Book and Says She would like to
                                    See you
                        the children Is gowing to School they have Improved More than I Expected they would
                                    In the time I was gon It Is very lonesum here now there has ben a great many left
                                    Senc I have ben gon More to gow Soon there wont be many lef by Spring I expect I
                                    will bee on the rode this fall for If they all gou away I wont have any work to do
                                    the boys want us to gow this Spring but I think I will try this year and If we fale
                                    then I will give up the gost I have ben very lame Sence I got home My left hip has
                                    all Most faled Mother I will bring my leter to a close for this time will write
                                    again and will try and write More Give my respects to Nelson & Lucy alsou to
                                    all—tell Barney I will write to him Soon
                        
                                    Charles Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  20 Pence was a short-lived village in northwest Scott County, 
                            Kansas
                        , three counties east of the Colorado border. Though free land was available in
                        Scott County for homestead and preemption entry, the area was heavily affected by drought and
                        crop failure and general retrenchment after the speculative boom of the mid-1880s. Charlie Myers
                        farmed and operated a blacksmith shop there. Scott County was a bit more fortunate than some
                        neighboring counties, as it was crossed by recently finished lines of the Missouri Pacific and
                        Santa Fe railroads. But the railroads, unfortunately, were built far to the south of Pence. See
                            History of Early Scott County (Scott City, Kans., 1977), 7,
                        33–34; and Craig Miner, West of 
                                Wichita
                            : Settling the High Plains of 
                                Kansas
                            , 1865–1890 (Lawrence, Kans., 1986), chaps. XVI and XVII.
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    March th 14 1889
                                    
                              Nevad
                           
                                
                        Dear Mary
                        I got your letter and was glad to heare from you but was verry much surprised to hear
                                    of your bad health and of your change of liveing I thout you would not left farm you
                                    and Homer hot as to the others I didnot think so much about it suts them I do not
                                    see as you have betterd your self mutch living up stairs21 you
                                    have the same to do for as before I have not heard from Mag for a wek or more she
                                    has had a bad cold but was better they like thear home verry much Barnes has ben
                                    verry unwell with a cold but is about againe
                        my health has not been as good as it wis last winter been able to be about moste of
                                    the time George and his wife is hear to stay he is working in town I got a letter
                                    from Saida last week she wanted to hear from you Nelson and Lucy are well I am
                                    staying with thm this winter
                        
                                    write soon
                                    Mother
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Aprial 13 [1889]
                                    
                              Flat Rock, Shell City Mo
                           
                                
                        Dear Sister & famly
                        I once more try to write you a flew lines to let you no that we are in the land of
                                    the living yet this leaves us all well at present, but I have bin sick nearly all
                                    winter I have got so that I dont have any thing like good health I was down to see
                                    Ma too weeks ago she is looking well and is having good health this winter. Mary I
                                    was sory to here that you was sack I hope that you will git better as Spring comes
                                    on. Jodie has bin very bad with his Caugh this winter It got him down bed fast for
                                    three weeks but he is gitting better now. I was surprised to here that you had sold
                                    your farm for you seamed to think so much of it write and tell us what you got for
                                    it We sold out last fall and baught us a little home twenty Miles North East of
                                    Nevada it is well improoved got a good house of too roomes good seller to it but
                                    Jake hant satisfie and never will be—we live in a very good nabor hood
                                    have 
                              
                                 21 Although John Davis had erected a
                                            "substantial" farmhouse outside Walton not long before, he
                                            had, by the time of this letter, moved into town to operate a general store,
                                            above which his family lived. Walton, Kansas, Independent,
                                            July 23, 1886; Walton, Kansas, Reporter, May 23,
                                        1890.
                           
                                     good school we live one quarter from the school
                                    house and the baptis church is rite by the side of it Jake wants to sell out and go
                                    to som new County but if goes he will go with out me for I wont go withe him for I
                                    have hard anuf time here with out goin farther and have still harder times
                        Mary we are having a very late spring it is very wet so wet that thay cant do very
                                    much farm work don Jake has his oats sowed and twenty achores of corn ground broke
                                    and that is all he has got don Mary I hant got very much to write and Jake is
                                    waiting for this so I cant write much Mary I want you to write to me and let me no
                                    how you ar and what you are doing tell John to write and the boys or them young men
                                    of yours. Florence says tell Homer that he dident do as he said he would do to write
                                    to hir but it hant to late yet so I think he can write yet I was surprise to see
                                    such a grate big fellow as Homer was tell him and Charly thay will have to com up
                                    next fall an gather pecans with us we gatherd twenty three bushels this winter thay
                                    sell very well here it is lots of fun and a good deal more of hard work than fun
                                    well I gess I will have to quit give our love to all of the famly write all of you
                                    soon
                        
                                    Magg
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Pence, Kans
                           
                                    June 20 89
                                    
                              Nevada Mo
                           
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        I received an leter from Margret a few days ago was glad to heare from them She Said
                                    you had got hurt did not give the perticulars as to how bad you was hurt I was verry
                                    Sorry to heare of your accident I hope you are up again hope you will write Soon and
                                    let us know how you are geting along I have writen you two leters and one to Barnes
                                    havent received any from you or him Mag Said you thought we might of wrote to you
                                    and let you know about Musa Wedding It was a mistake I over hald them on the rode
                                    and took Musa home It was about twelve oclock at night Our prospects for a crop Is
                                    very good now and we have the best potatoes that we have Raised Sence we have ben
                                    here In fact Our garden Is good we have out In Crop about 86 acrs of corn oats, ry,
                                    wheat & cane & millet Cant tell It will amount to yet we have 23
                                    Cows & calves I have them for 5 years on the halves I went with a Man from
                                    Rockford Mo who had Confidence anouegh In Me to furnish the Cows he Says he will get
                                    More In the Spring then I will try and Make Something In Stead of haveng to hammer
                                         all the time22 there Is
                                    but few Sitlers here now prety near all gon So we will have of Room to heard the
                                    cattle we will have to Stay here for we could not get away If we wanted to all I
                                    want Is to rase a good Crop then I Can make Some Money and get out of here I Still
                                    work In the shop Make anoug to get our grociers with Levis has don all the farming
                                    has worked hard all Spring he gets dissourige Sometimes and Says he will leave but
                                    Sence we got the Cows he thinks we will get along the wind has blowed like a herican
                                    for two days but has Quieted down this evening It looks like rain we commenced
                                    Cuting our ry yesterday but had to Quit on account of the winds It Is very good for
                                    this Country our wheet will only make About ten bushes per acr our Little Josie
                                    Margret Is fat and harty23 She Can almost Walk we all have god
                                    health I have had a prety Sore foot I let a plow Shear fall on my foot almost Cut
                                    the big tow off Still I Could walk back and forth to My work I live 3 1/2 miles from
                                        town24 moved out to have a chance to rase Chicken I have a
                                    garden I havent Sold any of my Clames yet and would like to find a buyers25 I will Close for this time hoping to heare from you Soon I
                                    remain yours as ever
                        
                                    Charles Myers …
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada City
                                 
                              
                           
                                    October 13 [1889]
                                
                        Dear Sister & famly
                        I will try to write to you once more I got your letter quite a while ago but dident
                                    answer it Mary I am sory to think that you cant com up to see us this fall I was so
                                    in hops that you would come I am sory to here that your helth is so bad. this leaves
                                    us all well at present but Florence She has had too bad sick spells this fall and
                                    nearly dyed both times and I dont no that she will ever be well agin She had the
                                    Newralgy of the hart and hir hart hurts hir all the time I never saw any one suffer
                                    like she did and I dont think any one else did I am afraid to leave hir a minit by
                                    hir self She has to take Medison all the time I am down to Nelsons, to see Ma. and I
                                    have brought hir with me I hant bin down 
                              
                                 22 In this letter, and in his letter of January 31,
                                            1889, above, Charlie Myers suggests the necessity of finding work away from
                                            home to augment his family's income on the western Kansas frontier.
                              
                                 23 Josie Margaret Myers was born in 1888, the
                                            next-to-last child of Charles's and Bell's large family.
                              
                                 24 "Town" was Pence, 
                                                Kansas
                                            , the dying settlement where Charlie operated a blacksmith shop.
                                            See note 20 above.
                              
                                 25 Charlie was speculating in land claims, a most
                                            doubtful business in western Kansas in 1889.
                           
                                     to see hir since in december Ma's
                                    jineral helth is very good but she is crippeled up in hir limes so that She cant
                                    hardly git around every time she turnes hir leg the least bit it just cracks like it
                                    was broke and hurts so bad She has to take holt of a chair to git up by and she cant
                                    stoop down atall She is looking very feeble Mary you wanted me to com down I would
                                    like to com if I could but I just cant we hant raised any thing to sell this year
                                    and have a big doctor bill to pay I jus git out of hart som times and think thare is
                                    no use for me to try ever to have any thing and then I think how much worse of I
                                    could be that I try to stand my troubles and try ese the best I can Florence hant
                                    bin able to any thing all sumer. Mary. Ma is taken very good care of she has a room
                                    to hir self and is fixed very nice I dont think she could want any better home she
                                    semes very well satisfied She said tell you that she was well as could be expected.
                                    I brought all the Children with me but Jodie thay are all well Prudie is my mainstay
                                    I dont no what I would do with our hir she is very stout of hir age and is hevery
                                    than Florence she had a letter wrote to you but forgot to bring it along with hir.
                                    Nels & Lucie is both well thay had a very good garden this summer.
                        Barny & Clem is both well thay are goin to build them a new house rite away
                                    thay comense this week it will have nine romes in it besides the halls Barny is just
                                    the same as he always was. thay just have plenty of everything but to here them talk
                                    thay hant got any thing Mary I wish you could com out and see us all you and John
                                    com out the boys can tend to the store Ma would like to see you. tell Hommer to
                                    write to Ma she is always talking about him and wondern why he dont ever write. I
                                    think that Jake will way too hundred & you can gess if he is well. I will
                                    write agin I hant got room to write any more this time write soon tell the boys to
                                    write to Florence, kiss that baby boy for me.26 aswer,
                        
                                    Magg
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    November 5 1809[1889]
                                
                        Dear Mary
                        I received your letter and was glad to hear you was well I have been sick but are
                                    about again but not verry well I am at Barneses now till Nelson gets his house
                                    plasterd Mag was down and staid aweek wih me while I was sick she said you talk of
                                        
                              
                                 26 Mary and John Davis had a third son, Orie, in
                                            September, 1889, sixteen years after the birth of their son Charles.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              FAMILY OF CHARLES AND ISABEL (BELL) MYERS BACK ROW, LEFT TO
                                                RIGHT: LEVI, CARL, SAMUEL, WINFIELD, AND MILTON. FRONT ROW:
                                                MUSA, CHARLES, HENRY ERNEST (ERNIE), ISABEL (BELL), AND JOSIE
                              
                              
                              Courtesy Kellie D. Smith.
                           
                                     coming down this fall I donot think I shall
                                    ever come to kansis again so if you want to see me again you will have to come hear
                        
                                    Margrt Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Pence Kans
                           
                                    No. 11th 89
                                
                        My Dear Mother
                        I have write to all of you and havent received any ancers yet So I thought I would
                                    write to you as to why the boys dont write we have had a big rain but was to late to
                                    do our crops any good Still It is good for the wheat I have about 30 acrs of wheet
                                    and 30 of rye It this crop fails I will be don up Levi had gon back to Reno County
                                    to work Milt Is back at walton to work. Musa run away and got married She lives up
                                    In Nebrasky Some wher we havent had any word from her Sence She left when they run
                                    of the first time I over hald them and brought her back She promised to Stay at home
                                    tell She was Sixteen years old but they gout to geather and made the Second attempt
                                    So I let her go I had no means to follow them My health Is not very good this fall
                                    but I think I will be beter Soon I have the dropsy of the Kidneys which Is very
                                    paneful the family Is all well our babe Is very Smart they Say It looks like Me say
                                    may no It Is verry handsom how Is Barney Making It this year also Nelson this had
                                    ben a very good Seson In the East I want you to write and tell me how your knee Is
                                    geting along and your generl health I have had So many dreams about you Sence I
                                    heard of you misfortan I was Elected Township Trustee of Beever Township I will
                                    close for this time as My Eyes Is Very week I Cant reed Small print In the day ligh
                                    now so you Can See my Site is failing hoping to heare from you soon I remain yours
                                    truly
                        
                                    Charles Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Scott, Scott County Kans
                           
                                    Feb. 15th 1891
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        I was glad to heare from you but was surprised to find 10 dollar in your leter for I
                                    told you I was not baging of you times Is very hard heare but I think I Can get
                                    threw by fall I Shall leave here Levi and family I gowing to Start to Nebraska to
                                    See Musa this month and will Stay If they Can get work to do there I will gow this
                                    fall as Soon as I Can get read of the Cattle I have got my pension I got back pay
                                    $2.00 hundred dollars which was Quite  a good healp27 I paid up my Store Bills but was not enough to
                                    pay all detts but I Can pay all othrs this fall then I will leave there has ben ade
                                    Sent here to the Needy there was three Carr lodes of Coal and three on the way yet
                                    and one of provision Such as flower meal pork potatoes and turnips Some Clothing28 I wish I Could Come to your County this Spring but I Cant I
                                    will try and Come to See you thus fall or winter your litle grand daughter Josie
                                    Margret Is a gowing to See her grandma … I will Close for this time
                                    hoping to heare from you Soon tell me all about all the boys and how every thing Is
                                    there I remain yours Son tell death thanks for favors
                        
                                    Charles Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Feb. the 17. 91.
                                
                        Dear Grandma
                        as pa was writing I thought would write to I am going to school all the time We have
                                    a good teacher have 30 scholars in my room Winie and Carl dont go where I do Carl is
                                    a good scholar for little Boy only 8 years old. he is small for his age Winie and I
                                    are large of are aages I weight 100.5 one hundred pounds. Grand Ma I wish we could
                                    come out and live by you but ant got money to come that far now but soon as we get
                                    money enough to get thare we are coming Me and us Boys are going to soon as we can
                                    get ready and go where Musa lives so we can get work and make some money to help pa
                                    he ant stout any more he will stay untill he can sell the cattle we have some nice
                                    big stears to sell and cows and calves to you ought to see my little sister Josi
                                    Marggret she is awful sweet and smart Well Grand Ma I will quit writing for this
                                    time you must write to me for I want see awful bad from your Grand son.
                        
                                    Samuel Myers29
                           
                                
                        Ps. I will send you one my name cards By By
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  27 Federal pension legislation of June 27, 1890, entitled any Civil War
                        veteran with service of ninety days or longer and with a disability to an award regardless of
                        the problem's origin. 
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes at Large, 51 Cong., 1 sess., chap. 634, 1890, pp.
                        182–83; Mary R. Dearing, Veterans in Politics: The Story of the
                        G.A.R. (
                            Baton Rouge
                        , La., 1952), 400.
               
                  28 Both public and private agencies were sending relief aid to
                        drought-stricken and impoverished western Kansas farmers in the winter of 1890–1891.
                        Charlie Myers obviously had a trade to rely on besides farming, but real starvation was a threat
                        in some households. Gilbert C. Fite, The Farmers' Frontier,
                            1865–1900 (
                            New York
                        , 1966), 126–31.
               
                  29 Samuel, Winfield (Winnie), and Carl were all preadolescent sons of
                        Charles and Bell Myers.
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Mar 10, 91
                                
                        Dear Aunt
                        I thought I would write you a few lines to let you know that we are all well at the
                                    present time and hope when these few lines reeches you thay will find you all the
                                    same.
                        I thought my preasent was awful pretty that you sent me and are ever so much oblige
                                    to you.
                        it is awful bad weather out here to day it is snowing I would like to see all of you
                                    I like to live out here we live just four miles from town we have clost nabors our
                                    clostest nabors only a bou a half a quarter and there ere two faimles just lives a
                                    quarter
                        I am not going to school now our school was out last thursday and I was glad of it
                                    for we had a six moth term and I was getting tard of going we had an awful good
                                    teacher well I dont now any more to write so I will haft to quit now and ma is going
                                    to write some
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    Prudie Harris …
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Flat Rock
                           
                                    March 14 [1891]
                                
                        Dear Brother & Sister
                        I will try to write to you to let you no that I hant forgot you I have bin trying to
                                    git time to write ever since Florence com home but thare has bin Church goin on and
                                    we live so clost that thare is always some one in and out Florence has joined Church
                                    since She com home. She profesed religon last winter but didnt joine the Church,
                                    this leaves us well at present but Jimie he has bin rite sick for too dayes I dont
                                    no what is the matter with him he has spells with his hed ever little while I gess
                                    he will be all rite in a fiew days, we are havin the coldest weather we have had
                                    this winter thare is snow on the ground now. Mary, the Children was awful well
                                    pleased with thair presents you sent them you just aught to see Jim strut with his
                                    neck tye on he is as Proud as all the rest put to gather Jodies over coat just fit
                                    him and the rest to he said tell you he was awful well pleased with them that he
                                    woul remember you he said com over and eat duck with him. he kil nine yesterday.
                                    Mary and John I think My dress is real nice and I am ever so much oblige to you for
                                    it I hant made it yet dollie think aunt Mary is awful good and would like to see
                                    hir. I would like to see you all. tell the boys to com over and go hunting with
                                    Jodie he has a gun and he thinks he is all the one that can hunt, write soon
                        
                                    Jake & Magg …
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
               HOMER AND EMMA (MILLER) DAVIS c. 1892
            
            
               CHARLES MILTON DAVIS c. 1890
               Courtesy Rodney O. Davis.
            
            
            [To Homer Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April 11—91
                                
                        Cousin Homer
                        I will Endeaver to answer your letter which I received some time ago and hope you
                                    will excuse me for not riting sooner I have ben staying with a sick woman and never
                                    come home till last week we are all well at present and hope you are all the same it
                                    has been raining nearly all spring and the farmers has not got to put in any crop
                                    yet to amount to much I am going to School this summer I started a monday we have
                                    got a splendid teacher she boards at our house and we have a picnic tell Charlie
                                    that she is the girl that rote that letter that he read and wanted to corspond with
                                    I went to town last week and hat my picturs taken and am ging to town to morrow to
                                    get them and will send you folke one if you think of raising garden but if you dont
                                    raise garden your Ma can put it up in the yard to keep the hawks off of her chickens
                                    but if I send you one I will expect one in return I went to a candy baken last
                                    monday night and had quite a nice time and got enough candy to last me a month if I
                                    dont divide with Charlie30 as he was called away some place elce
                                    that night and dident get to go to the canday baken Charlie's Pa was down
                                    this evening and spent the evening and ate supper. I havent been any place much
                                    since I came home except to Church we started Sunday school a Sunday I am one of the
                                    teachers I was Baptized lat Sunday and so was Ma, and six others there is such a
                                    good Christain work going on out here I just wish you would come out and stay a
                                    while and see how we love it is so diferent since Ma has joined Church and I think
                                    Pa will join bfore very long as he seems very much interested Jimie and I am in the
                                    room by our selves and the rest of the folke and the school teacher is in the other
                                    room reading the Bible has Orie forgotten me yet I would like to be out there and
                                    have a big play with him how is Emma getting along give her my love and tell her
                                    that I would like to see her tell Charlie to give Lillie31 my
                                    best regards and fer them to step over and see me some night rite soon good night
                        
                                    Cousin Florence
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  30 The second "Charlie" in this letter was a male friend
                        of Florence Harris in 
                            Vernon County
                        , 
                            Missouri
                        .
               
                  31 The third generation of Samuel Myers's family were beginning
                        to pair off and marry. Homer Davis and Emma Miller were to wed in September, 1892. Charlie Davis
                        and Lillie Ives were to marry in 1894.
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [April 11, 1891]
                                
                        Dear Aunt
                        I will drop you a few lines as I am riting to homer we are all well at present and
                                    hope this will find you all the same I wish I could see you all the to night and
                                    play dominoes with you I expect you would beat me for I havent played sence I came
                                    home I havent made any of my visits I talked a bout sence I came home and dont
                                    supose I will get to now as I am teacher in the sunday school and would not like to
                                    miss
                        Aunt Mary Ma has joined Church I wish you would come out and see us home is so much
                                    nice now for Pa has changed so much lately and I think he will soon join church soon
                                    dont let Orie forget me and I want you to come out and see us this summer I havent
                                    herd from any of the folke sence I came home but we are looking for some of them up
                                    soon I said we had not herd from the folks we had a letter from Luie32 last week I guess I will close as I have riten all of the news in yours
                                    and Homer letters now I want you to rite good By God be with you all till we meet
                                    again from your niece
                        
                                    Florence
                                
                        I have had my picters taken so if you get one dont be scared for it is only
                                me
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [Schell City, 
                                    Vernon County
                                 , Mo.]
                           
                                    Nov 28—1891
                                
                        Dear Aunt
                        I thought I would write you a few lines to let you know that we are all well and
                                    hoping when these few lines reaches you thay will find you all the same, we went a
                                    peconing today but didnot get very many pecones we froze out we have five floorsacks
                                    full. I wish you was here to hunt pecones with us we would just have a nice time
                                    Aunt Mary I want you two have that big bad baby boy picturs taken and send it to me.
                        I want you to be in a hurry about it two I want two see how he looks iff he looks as
                                    mischievous as he is
                        I would like to see you all and is sorrow that you couldent 
                              
                                 32 This was Lewis Hodge Myers, the son of Barnes and
                                            Clem.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              FLORENCE HARRIS PRUDENCE HARRIS DOLLIE HARRIS 1890s
                              Courtesy Clella Kelley.
                           
                                    
                              FOLLOWING PAGE: OKLAHOMA c. 1910–1915 JOEL HARRIS, JAMES HARRIS, MARGARET MYERS HARRIS, JACOB (JAKE) HARRIS, MARTHA (CLEM) MYERS, SAMUEL BARNES MYERS, DOLLIE
                                                HARRIS GILLILAND, DAUGHTER, AND ARTHUR GILLILAND
                              
                              Courtesy Rodney O. Davis.
                           
                                    
                              JOEL HARRIS 1880s
                              Courtesy Clella Kelley.
                           
                                    
                                    
                                     come out well I guess I will hafto quite for
                                    this time Im getting so sleepy so Good night
                        
                                    Prudie Harris
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To John W. Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                  Mo
                           
                                    Jan 8. 1892
                                
                        Well John
                        this may surprise you & Mary I was taken with the Grip saturday nite after
                                    you left I had it Bad hav not ben able to gow out yet Deny [?] was taken Munday is
                                    getting better Lucie took Tuesday & has had it very hard things began to
                                    look Blue Wednesday morning Mother took it we had the doctor for hur & Lucie
                                    Mother is no better Deny [?] is going fer Docter this morning Mrs Fry held out til
                                    las nite & then she gave away Deny [?] will brg Mrs Suthrs out today have
                                    not seen barny since you left as I have not ben away from home since you left as
                                    soon as I get able I will get there Pecans & Express them to you will write
                                    nomore this time will drop you a card evry fiew days best wishes to all Respectfuly
                        
                                    N Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To John and Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                  Mo
                           
                                    Jan 14 92
                                
                        John & Mary
                        When we wrote last Mother was getting along very well but she has taken a Relaps
                                    & is Very Bad this mring Deny is going for The Docter this mring I am afraid
                                    it is turning into Pneumona & if it does I am afraid she will not get along
                                    so well will write agan sune Respectfuly
                        
                                    Nels
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To John and Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                  Mo
                           
                                    Jan 20/92 10 oclock this Morig
                                
                        John & Mary
                        the Doctor has Just left he says Mother canot last longer than tonite & is
                                    liable to drop off at any time Today George is heere Barny was heere yesterda
                                    looking for him this Mornig Balance  gettig
                                    along Very well There is lots of Grip in this county & a great many Old
                                    people are dying will write agan soon
                        
                                    Respectfuly
                                    Nels
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To John W. Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Thursday 3, oclock [January 21, 1892]
                                
                        We got here 2.40 Pm all OK. have seen George. He was at the Train. Grandma will Be
                                    hurried tomorrow at 11.00 we will walk out to Barne's to night it is Pretty
                                    muddy.
                        
                                    Boys33
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                    Missouri
                                 
                              
                           
                                    January 25–1892
                                
                        Dear Sister Mary
                        It is with a sad heart I write to tell you of the sickness & death of our
                                    Mother she was taken sick with Lagrippe on January 6—being Wednesday
                                    after you left here we called a doctor the day she was taken she soon seemed better
                                    & on the next tuesday she sit up some but on Wednesday morning she was not
                                    so well we sent for the Doctor again but she suffered all day & that night
                                    Pneumonia set in I sit up all night & did all I could for her & at 3
                                    oclock we sent for the Doctor again he came out immediately & we all did all
                                    we could for her but she suffered on until the 20th at about 2 oclock in the after
                                    noon she pased away She was patient & kind through her sickness did not seem
                                    to fear death but begged the Dear Lord to release her from her suffering On friday
                                    evening after she took worse I was sitting by her bed alone & she says to me
                                    I want Maggie to have my clothes & if there is any thing among them that
                                    Mary wants Maggie can give it to her & my work basket with all that is in it
                                    I want Prudie to have & my bed & bedding that is here is yours
                                    & the rug I am making you can finish & have for your own. Now Mary I
                                    have two table covers that Ma made for me I want you to have one of them I think a
                                    great deal of it & would not give it to any body else I intended to send it
                                    by the boys but did not get to see them but I can send it through the mail when I
                                    hear from you Maggie has not taken her things away yet George is better &
                                    they started home to day we are afraid he will take a relapse but he was determined
                                    to go home he was very sick for three days, we are sorry we got to see 
                              
                                 33 Homer and Charlie Davis.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              LUCINDA (LUCY) MYERS
                                            1870s
                           
                                    
                              WILLIAM NELSON MYERS
                                            1870s
                              Courtesy Clella Kelley.
                           
                                     so little of the boys Give them our best wishes
                                    & kindest regards to John & a kiss for Ora Pleas write soon As ever
                        
                                    Your Sister
                                    Lucy
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        John I was taken sick before I coul get the Pecauns but will get them & send
                                    them to you dont know when will settle up the Estate yet Charley has ben talkig to
                                    all the rest about it but has said nothig to me yet
                        
                                    Nels
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To John and Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [January, 1892]
                                
                        John & Mary
                        There has ben Nothing done yet about the Estate Charly began about it before Mother
                                    was Hardly coald he wood not say any thing to me but wood Talk to Jake &
                                    Barny & come over & talked to George whilst sick in Bed. George got
                                    so he thought he could gow home so Tuesday noon I took him to the Train I got a
                                    Letter from Net yesterday & was better but Net was feelig Very bad Balance
                                    gettig along very well
                        
                                    Respectfuly
                                    Nels
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Jacob and Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                  Mo
                           
                                    Febr 7 1892
                                
                        Jake & Maggie
                        we are all well Barnys Folks are all around Aunt Missurrie [?] is Better is going to
                                    get well I saw Barny yesterdy & he wanted me to settle up Mothers Estate
                                    & I hav agread to tend to it we went too the Bank to see about it &
                                    they rquir of me a power of attorney for all the Heirs before I can draw the mony in
                                    bank so I wish you wood gow to shell & have some Lawyer to make it out
                                    & sent to me Maggie must sin with you hope you will attend to this as soon
                                    as you get this & send it to me Hope you are all well have you sent this
                                    things to Mary yet Respectfuly
                        
                                    W.N.[Nelson]Myers
                                
                        P.S we had a letter from Net on Friday she says George is quite sick yet has
                                    had a Doctor Expect some of us will hav to gow down this week love to all
                                    Nels
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [To Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                  Mo
                           
                                    Jan 24 1893
                                
                        Well Maggie you & Jake will be surprised when I tell you that we have at last
                                    found the papers that father had the Childrens account all set down aganst them
                                    there was $1,118.76 charged to George & $150.00
                                    charged to Mary $300.00 to me $192.14 charged to Levi there is
                                    nothing to any of the rest George was up last week & wanted the place
                                    devided we had not found the Papers then today Barney & I got Birdsey to
                                    help look over the papers & we found it among som old Deeds it woud be very
                                    hard to devide the place Birdsey suggested that if all parties could agree they
                                    could select three disinterested pursons to look at the land & sent a price
                                    on it & then if any of them wanted to sell they could do so Barny says to
                                    gow a head & rent the place for this year as it could not be divided til it
                                    wood be to late to rent and I shal Probably rent it Saturday let me heere what you
                                    think of it Enclosed you will find Money order for $15.25 the last of the
                                    Mony from Mothers Estate for which pleas send Receipt we are all well
                        
                                    Respectfuly,
                                    W.N. Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Jacob and Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                  Mo
                           
                                    Apr 16/95
                                
                        Dear Brother & Sister
                        We recieved your letter was glad to heare that you got through safe & well
                                    & that you have got located & are Satesfied34
                                    hope you may get along all rite we had the Deeds Sent to you to sine &
                                    Return & then we Can Settle up & find what Each Party has to Pay I
                                    was over to the Place today & done some Measureing Ransford35 will take the East end of the house & you get the Balance &
                                    Mary gets west of you you & hur take all the Orcheard & Barny on the
                                    west that Man Read stil lives in the house & wood like to Rent it for this
                                    year this leavs us all well & very Busy we had a good Rain last nite which
                                    we neaded very Bad 
                              
                                 34 In spite of her earlier protestations, Maggie
                                            Harris and her family were to make one more move. Jake made the run into the
                                            Cherokee Outlet in September, 1893, and claimed a quarter-section in Pawnee
                                            County that was patented ten years later. He lived alone on the claim during
                                            the first winter, trapping muskrats on the nearby Neosho River. In the early
                                            spring of 1895 he moved his family to a dugout on his claim and steadily
                                            improved the farm. Jake and Maggie remained there until his death in 1927
                                            and hers in 1943. Clella Kelley and Phyllis Anderson, interview with author,
                                            Pawnee, 
                                                Oklahoma
                                            , March 17, 1986; Patent Book I, Pawnee County Clerk's
                                            Office, Pawnee, 
                                                Oklahoma
                                            ; and Roy Gittenger, The Formation of the State of 
                                                    Oklahoma
                                                
                                  (
                                                Norman
                                            , Okla., 1939), 200–201.
                              
                                 35 Sarah, or "Sadie," Lewis
                                            Myers's daughter, had married James Ransford in 
                                                Sullivan County
                                            , Indiana.
                           
                                     our Garden is doing very well & we are
                                    very busy now I have not seen Barny for several days Charly & Bell was down
                                    a short time ago & signed the Papers have not heerd from Mary lately shal
                                    write to them tonite hope this may find all well write soon Respectfuly
                        
                                    W.N. Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Poor Relief at the 
                        St. Joseph County
                     Poor Asylum, 1877–1891
            Bruce Smith∗
            
            The historiography of poorhouses in the 
                        United States
                     is narrow in both time and place: most studies concentrate on antebellum examples in
                    the northeast and little else.1 Although midwestern poorhouses of the late
                    nineteenth century have been virtually neglected, the scholarship that has been done focuses on
                    institutional and policy aspects of poor relief or on reformers while ignoring everyday aspects of
                    the poorhouse itself.2 An examination of part of the history of the 
                        St. Joseph County
                    , Indiana, poorhouse is a step toward documenting the postbellum experiences of poor
                    relief recipients in the Midwest.
            Although fairly consistent records exist for the period 1875–1895, the data from the years
                    1877–1879 and 1887–1891 were chosen because information contained no gaps,
                    because termination data and comments for all admissions were given, and because the time period
                    represented relative economic prosperity. Studying periods of economic depression would have shown a
                    "worst case" situation, giving a distorted picture of the poorhouse. In addition
                    to these considerations, the nature of Indiana poorhouses changed dramatically between 1895 and
                    1900. Increasingly referred to as 
                  
                     ∗ Bruce Smith is a doctoral candidate in history,
                            University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. He wishes to thank Damaris Smith, Portage
                            Manor, 
                                South Bend
                            , for providing access to the poorhouse ledgers; David S. Bainbridge, Northern
                            Indiana Historical Society, 
                                South Bend
                            ; and Karin Smith for photographic assistance.
                  
                     1 David J. Rothman, The Discovery of the Asylum: Social
                                Order and Disorder in the New Republic (
                                Boston
                            , 1971); The Almshouse Experience: Collected Reports (
                                New York
                            , 1971); John U. Hannon, "Poor Relief Policy in Antebellum 
                                New York State
                            : The Rise and Decline of the Poorhouse," Explorations in
                                Economic History, XXII (July, 1985), 233–56; and Michael B. Katz, Poverty and Policy in American History (
                                New York
                            , 1983).
                  
                     2 Frank R. Levstik, ed., "Life Among the Lowly: An Early View
                            of the Ohio Poorhouse," Ohio History, LXXXVIII (Winter, 1979),
                            84–88; Elizabeth Gaspar 
                                Brown
                            , "Poor Relief in a 
                                Wisconsin County
                            , 1846–1866: Administration and Recipients," American Journal of Legal History, XX (April, 1976), 79–117; and Ethel
                            McClure, "An Unlamented Era: County Poor Farms in 
                                Minnesota
                            ," Minnesota History, XXXVIII (December, 1963),
                            365–77.
               
                     "county infirmaries," their missions and
                    populations changed. Comparing nineteenth-century figures with twentieth-century data would be
                    misleading.
            Although 
                        South Bend
                     was not incorporated until 1831, 
                        St. Joseph County
                     by 1850 had reached a par with the other counties of the state in its treatment of the
                    poor.3 Through successive investigations and calls for reform by state and local officials and by
                    national reformers in the 1850s, 1870s, and 1880s, the poorhouse system underwent a series of
                    changes that resulted in a much more standardized institution by the end of the century. The 
                        St. Joseph County
                     Poorhouse4 reflected these changes and represents a mainstream
                    example of poor relief practice in Indiana in the last quarter of the nineteenth century.
            A useful place to begin any study of poor relief in Indiana is The Indiana Poor
                    Law, published in 1936, which traces the evolution of the poorhouse system in Indiana from the
                    beginning of statehood.5 Also helpful are the reports beginning in 1889 of the
                    Indiana State Board of Charities. Members of the board based their details on annual visits to all
                    Indiana poorhouses, and frequently their reports offer explicit glimpses of poorhouse conditions.6
            
            From the beginning of the state's history in 1816, Indiana legislators provided for the care
                    of the wayward and the poor. In Article IX, Section 4, for example, the Constitution of 1816 stated:
                    "It shall be the duty of the General assembly, as soon as circumstances will permit, to
                    form a penal Code, founded on the principles of reformation, and not on vindictive Justice: and also
                    to provide one or more farms to be an asylum for those persons, who by reason of age, infirmity, or
                    other misfortunes, may have a claim upon the aid and beneficence of society; on such principles,
                    that such persons may therein, find employment, and every reasonable comfort and lose, by their
                    usefulness, the degrading sense of dependence."7 In 1818 legislation
                    provided for temporary relief in case of 
                  
                     3 In fact, 
                                St. Joseph County
                             Orphan Asylum was established by Theodore Badin in 1833 and incorporated by the
                            state; it was thus a notable alternative to poor relief and was exempt from county
                            overseers. See Indiana, Second Report of the Board of State Charities
                            (November 1, 1890-October 31, 1891), 111–12.
                  
                     4 The terms "poorhouse," "poor
                            farm," "county farm," and "poor asylum" may
                            generally be used interchangeably, althouth there are often local variations in meaning. By
                            the end of the nineteenth century the term "county infirmary" was widely
                            used, as "county home" is now. Changing terminology usually reflected the
                            evolving function of the county poor relief system.
                  
                     5 Alice Shaffer, Mary Wysor Keefer, and Sophonisba P. Breckinridge,
                                The Indiana Poor Law: Its Development and Administration with Special
                                Reference to the Provision of State Care for the Sick Poor (
                                Chicago
                            , 1936).
                  
                     6 Indiana, First Report of the Board of State Charities (March 1,
                            1889-October 31, 1890).
                  
                     7 Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana:
                                A Source Book of Constitutional Documents with Historical Introduction and Critical
                                Notes; Vol. I, 1780–1851 (Indiana
                                Historical Collections, Vol. I; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 114.
               
                     sickness for those who lacked the capacity or means to care for
                    themselves and for reasonable burial expense if death occurred under these conditions. Overseers in
                    each county were to handle such situations, and funds for these services were to be drawn from
                    county treasuries.8 Three years later, in 1821, "An Act to provide for
                    the erection of a house for the employment of the poor of 
                        Knox County
                    " became the first statutory provision in the state for indoor, or
                    institutional, relief.9 The 
                        Knox County
                     law called for three "reputable citizens" to replace the county
                    overseers; these citizens were to provide accommodation, care, employment, and supervision to
                    recipients, as well as to place children in apprenticeships. Additionally, the law required that
                    annual reports on the number, ages, and sex of those housed in the asylum, as well as information
                    about the children apprenticed, be submitted to the county commissioners (who were given appointive
                    powers) and the circuit court (which could appoint visitors to inspect the asylum). Finally, the law
                    charged that the poor be removed to the asylum as soon as it was completed.10
            
            Indiana's Constitution of 1851 expanded the state's care to the insane, deaf, and
                    blind when it gave responsibility for their treatment to the General Assembly. The constitution also
                    authorized each county to purchase land to be used "as an asylum for those persons, who, by
                    reason of age, infirmity or other misfortune, have claims upon the sympathies and aid of
                        society."11 In 1859 legislation assured the poor of competent,
                    county-subsidized medical attention, an arrangement that remained in effect until county hospitals
                    appeared after the reform wave of the 1890s. Sickness, cited as a major cause of financial
                    difficulties, was increasingly attacked as a cause of poverty and was no longer seen as a result. In
                    the aftermath of reform investigations in the 1890s, the state in 1899 created county councils as a
                    check against possible abuses by county commissioners; one effect was to limit
                    commissioners' role to indoor administration since they were prohibited from dispensing
                    funds from the county treasury.12
            
            "Outdoor relief," that is, relief in the form of material goods or cash given
                    directly to persons without the requirement that they submit to a term of residence in the
                    poorhouse, was the function of 
                  
                     8 Shaffer, Keefer, and Breckinridge, The Indiana Poor
                                Law, 16.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 17. The 
                                Knox County
                             act was the prototype for a statewide law passed in 1831 that authorized each
                            county to build its own poor farm. Ibid., 34. Nevertheless, methods of
                            poor relief remained uneven; as late as 1891 the Board of State Charities reported that ten
                            of the state's ninety-two counties still "farmed out" their poor
                            by contracting with individuals for their care on a year-by-year basis. See Indiana, Second Report of the Board of State Charities, 47.
                  
                     10 Shaffer, Keefer, and Breckinridge, The Indiana Poor
                                Law, 17–18.
                  
                     11 Quoted in ibid., 121.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 121–22.
               
                     the already powerful township trustee. Individuals requesting
                    help from the county went to the trustee's office first.13 If outdoor
                    relief were appropriate, then one did not move into the poorhouse.
            Provision for the poor in 
                        St. Joseph County
                     began humbly in 1831 when county commissioners rented houses in 
                        South Bend
                     for the destitute and frequently paid individuals for boarding paupers. Consolidation
                    of paupers in a single facility was an objective as early as 1839, when commissioners requested that
                    local officials "forthwith convey all the paupers in their several townships to said Poor
                    house as well as all that may become paupers … ."14 At their
                    meetings in 1839 and 1840 the commissioners appropriated funds for items large and small. Among
                    other things money was allotted for the removal of the poor from the county, for furnishings in the
                    poorhouse, and for food and firewood. David True, for example, was given $2.57 for
                    boarding a pauper for six days. Levi Hildreth was reimbursed $43.43 for eight days of
                    boarding. In 1841 rent for the poorhouse was ordered paid to Willaim S. Vail in the amount of
                    $46.66 for four months. As superintendent of the poorhouse, Daniel Fuller was paid
                    $20.00 per month. Alexander Holloway was given $4.50 for boarding paupers and
                    furnishing a small coffin, and George Stephens was paid $15.75 for three coffins.
                    Attendance upon and medicine for a needy family and others were charged at $35.37 and
                    paid. Dr. Griffin Smith was paid the considerable sum of $120.00 for care and medicine
                    for a poor individual. Other expenses covered shoes for a pauper and hay and cowbells for the cows
                    kept for the benefit of the poor at the poor farm.15
            
            The poor relief budget grew over the years and reflected changes in practice at the poorhouse. In
                    1841 the commissioners instructed the new supervisor of the poorhouse that "it shall be his
                    duty to examine the condition of said paupers at least once in each week and whenever in his
                    judgement he shall find that any pauper has so [recovered] in health and strength to be able to
                    support themselves, he shall forthwith discharge them."16 A careful look at relief
                    expenditures reveals widespread sickness, as in 1845 when, 
                  
                     13 Research is badly needed in the area of township trustee budgets
                            and expenditures in order to determine whether the outdoor relief cutbacks documented for
                            eastern cities in this period were adopted elsewhere. This study makes no attempt to deal
                            with this aspect of the larger poor relief picture. See Indiana, Fifth Report
                                of the Board of State Charities (November 1, 1893-October 31, 1894),
                            81–84; and Michael B. Katz, In the Shadow of the Poorhouse: A Social
                                History of Welfare in America (
                                New York
                            , 1986), 46–52, 109.
                  
                     14 Record of the Proceedings of the Board of Justices of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            , Vol. I, 1830–1841 (Northern Indiana Historical Society, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana). Successive volumes of these records are entitled Commissioners
                            Record.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 218–41; Commissioners Record, Vol. II
                            (1841–1844), p. 4, 
                                St. Joseph County
                             Auditor's Office, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana. Names of individuals mentioned in records as receiving relief have
                            been intentionally omitted throughout the article.
                  
                     16 Record of the Proceedings of the Board of Justices, 572.
               
                     in addition to the regular poor relief expenses of
                    $714.40, an additional $322.96 was expended for those who had smallpox.17 The records also show that a poorhouse and a poor farm existed in 184718 and that by 1852 expenses for care of the insane appeared in the budget.19 Poor relief was often 10 percent or more of the Board of
                    Commissioners' annual budget.
            In 1852 when the state legislature authorized the counties to purchase land to use as a poor farm,
                    the 
                        St. Joseph County
                     commissioners purchased a plot of 240 acres, then just east of 
                        South Bend
                     and now bordered by McKinley, Ironwood, Jefferson, and Greenlawn streets. On this site
                    the commissioners ordered construction of poorhouse facilities which the county used from 1857 to
                    1907. The poorhouse's location was convenient—both for the administrators and
                    the poor. It could be easily reached for inspection, but it was far enough removed so as to be
                    outside the potentially evil influence of the city. It was also located on the boundary line of the
                    two most populous townships in the county (Penn and Portage), which happened to supply most of the
                    admissions. It was at this location that the records used in this study were compiled.
            
               
                        South Bend
                    , already a thriving city of 13,280 in 1880, grew by half in ten years, approaching
                    22,000 by 1880. The county's growth from 33,178 people in 1880 to 42,457 in 1890, while not
                    as large, was still significant. 
                        South Bend
                     was located in Portage Township, and in both census years only an additional one
                    thousand residents lived in the township outside the city boundaries.20 Favored
                    with water power, rail transport, and productive agricultural hinterlands, 
                        South Bend
                     boasted a considerable industrial and manufacturing 
                  
                     17 Commissioners Record, II, 51–52.
                  
                            
                        18 Commissioners Record, Vol. Ill (1844–1855), p. 176, 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                 Auditor's Office, 
                                    South Bend
                                , Indiana. In 1847 Dorothea L. Dix gave the following comments on 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                's relief system: "The poor-house and farm … is
                                situated on the Michigan Road, six or seven miles south from the Bend. The farm contains
                                200 acres, with a remarkably pleasant and convenient family residence. The building in
                                which the poor are kept is in the rear of this, and very defective in construction and
                                in the general plan, and poorly furnished. I found here but two who were dependent on
                                the public and on the Superintendent for their support and daily comforts; one, an
                                insane man, who had in the winter been found in the woods with his feet frozen; the
                                other, an aged negro. "The number of inmates increases as the winter months
                                advance. Formerly the poor were kept in the town, but serious evils attended this
                                arrangement, and now the opposite extreme is adopted, they being too far removed to come
                                under the frequent and benevolent supervision of official persons and the Christian
                                visitor.
                            "The superintendent receives $200 for carrying on the farm, and I
                                think receives all supplies for family use from the overseers, a plan not likely to
                                prove either economical or satisfactory, or at all desirable. Average cost of the poor
                                for the four years preceding their removal from 
                                    South Bend
                                , $600." Quoted in Helen Wilson, The
                                    Treatment of the Misdemeanant in Indiana, 1816–1936 (
                                    Chicago
                                , 1938), 97.
                        
                  
                     19 Commissioners Record, III, 520.
                  
                     20 Thus, for all practical purposes, Portage Township was
                            
                                South Bend
                            . See U.S., Eleventh Census, 1890: Compendium, 16, 451.
               
                    
                    
                  ST. JOSEPH COUNTY POOR ASYLUM, 1863
                  Courtesy Northern Indiana Historical Society, 
                                South Bend
                            .
               
                    
                  LOCATION OF THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY POOR ASYLUM, 1895, BETWEEN SOUTH BEND AND MISHAWAKA
                  
                  Reproduced from George A. Ogle, comp. and pub., Standard Atlas of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                . Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1895), 40.
               
                    
                    
                  ENTRIES FROM THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY POOR ASYLUM LEDGER, 1890–1891
                  NAMES HAVE BEEN INTENTIONALLY OMITTED
                  
               
                    
                    
                  Courtesy Portage Manor, 
                                South Bend
                            .
               
                     base by the 1880s. Six iron foundaries were listed in the 1882
                    city directory, including plow and range manufacturers. Studebaker was but one of four wagon and
                    carriage enterprises. There were seven hotels, six newspapers, twenty-two dealers in machinery and
                    agricultural implements, and thirty-nine saloons.21
                    
                        South Bend
                     was a busy, growing midwestern town on the verge of an industrial boom.
            On April 25, 1889, representatives of the Board of State Charities visited the 
                        St. Joseph County
                     poorhouse facilities. Their description follows in full: 
                        The asylum is located about one and one-half miles from 
                                South Bend
                             on a productive farm of 240 acres, of which 50 acres is also used as the County
                            Fair ground. The buildings are one story, cheaply constructed, partly brick and partly
                            frame. The main building contains the Superintendent's residence, quarters for the
                            help and rooms for the better class of women-inmates, and has a basement used as a kitchen
                            and dinning-room; this building was in excellent order and very comfortably furnished
                            throughout. There are two other one story buildings for the rest of the inmates, one of
                            brick for the women and one of frame for the men, which are not very cheerful, but were in
                            fair order and clean. In the men's building are several cell-rooms for the insane,
                            in one of which there was an insane woman kept in seclusion, but in sight and hearing of the
                            men, who use the corridor as a sitting-room. There are no children received; as 
                                St. Joseph County
                             is the headquarters of the Children's Aid Society, which takes care of
                            all the dependent children. There is a bath house with tubs, regularly used. Most of the
                            paupers are feeble and old. The chronic insane, who are able-bodied, are for the most part
                            usefully employed. On the whole the management appeared very good, with the exception of the
                            treatment of the more violent insane, and the Superintendent and wife impressed me as being
                            intelligent and conscientious people. An elaborate set of rules for the government of the
                            Institution is displayed in each sitting-room and hall. If these are lived up to there will
                            be little fault to find with this asylum. The Superintendent's salary is
                            $600 per annum. Annual net cost is about $5,000. Average number of
                            inmates about 47. Weekly cost per inmate about $2.04.22
                  
                     The reports of 1890–1891 and 1891–1892 were rather brief and
                    insignificant, but the 1893 report was again quite detailed: 
                        The asylum is upon a very fine farm of 240 acres, one and one-half miles east of 
                                South Bend
                            . The land is valuable for agricultural purposes, but if sold would command a
                            yet higher price because of its proximity to the city. There is a fine garden and
                            considerable attention has been given to the cultivation of strawberries, grapes and other
                            small fruits. When visited the Matron had just completed canning 500 quarts of fruit of
                            various kinds, which had been stored in the cellar for the use of the inmates during the
                            ensuing year.
                        The asylum is not such an institution as 
                                St. Joseph County
                             should have. It consists of two buildings, one of brick occupied by the
                            Superintendent's family in front and female inmates in the rear. The other building
                            is a frame structure one 
                        
                           21
                                    The Register City Directory of the Inhabitants, Institutions, and
                                        Manufacturing Enterprises of the City of 
                                            South Bend
                                        , Indiana for 1882 (
                                        South Bend
                                    , 1882), 177–97.
                        
                           22 Indiana, First Report of the Board of State
                                        Charities, 52. For information on the Children's Aid Society, see
                                    Indiana, Second Report of the Board of State Charities,
                                    105–106.
                     
                             story high, long and narrow, and is occupied by the
                            male inmates. The last building was erected within the last few years, and is a great
                            improvement over the facilities which existed before that time for caring for the poor. The
                            arrangement of separate buildings for the men and women provides good sex separation.
                        When visited the asylum was found in a good state of cleanliness and the same may be said of
                            the inmates. Bathing is required weekly of every inmate and each department has a bath tub.
                            Clothing appeared to be of fair quality and the beds were furnished. The part of the asylum
                            occupied by the Superintendent's family is heated by a furnace; the part occupied
                            by inmates by means of stoves in the corridors. Some interior improvements in the brick
                            building during the past year have increased the conveniences and comforts of the kitchen
                            and dining room.
                        The farm has one of the handsomest and most commodious barns in the County. Fences are in
                            good condition and the door yards are attractive and well kept.
                        Among the principal needs of the asylum are day rooms for the inmates, who now sit only in
                            the corridors. A better water supply is urgently needed also. At present all water used in
                            the asylum must be carried out of doors. The institution appeared to be in most particulars
                            well managed. The Superintendent in control at the time of this visit was to be succeeded
                            December 1st by a man who had offered to take the place for a salary $50 smaller
                            than the salary paid to the Superintendent already in charge.
                        The average number of inmates is about seventy-five, and the average weekly cost of
                            maintaining each inmate is about $1.565.23
                  
                    
            
            Examination of the 
                        St. Joseph County
                     Poor Asylum's ledger books reveals important information about the
                    characteristics of the people it served although information was recorded primarily upon admission
                    and release.24 Thus descriptive terms at arrival and departure are provided, but
                    nothing of the time spent at the poorhouse is detailed. The birth dates and sex of the children born
                    to women who were admitted because they were pregnant were noted in the mother's entry
                    along with the name of the adoptive parent, but such mid-stay notations were rare. In Michael B.
                    Katz's study of 
                        Erie County
                    , 
                        New York
                    , race and nativity of relief recipients were noted.25 In 
                        St. Joseph County
                    , however, such information was given only twice in the years under study; one Indian
                    and one "colored" man were the only exceptions in the sample. Without further
                    investigation it cannot be assumed that the rest were white although the bulk probably were.
            The township trustee, who was directly responsible for outdoor relief, was also required to see that
                    those requiring indoor relief were sent to the poorhouse. Contrary to what one might suspect,
                    poverty and destitution were not given as the most common causes for admission to the poorhouse. In
                    most cases poverty accompanied other conditions and circumstances. People were obviously poor when
                    they arrived at the poorhouse, but it is clear from records 
                  
                     23 Indiana, Fourth Report of the Board of State
                            Charities (November 1, 1891-October 31, 1893), 190.
                  
                     24
                            
                                St. Joseph County
                             Poor Asylum Ledger, Vol. I (Portage Manor, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     25 Katz, Poverty and Policy in American History,
                            72–83.
               
                     that other factors combined with a condition of poverty to
                    precipitate a stay at the poorhouse (see Figure 1). Sickness and age, for example, were major
                    reasons; persons too ill to care for themselves or elderly men and women unable physically to
                    practice food preparation or hygiene were often admitted. Many aged people, perhaps, either had no
                    one who could house them or hoped to avoid burdening relatives or friends with their presence. The
                    discharge category "taken away by relatives" applied to several elderly people
                    after a short stay. The terms "orphan," "homeless," and
                    "deserted" usually described women and children. The very young were normally not
                    expected to provide their own living, and the loss of one or both parents added extra trauma to
                    difficult times. Women left homeless because of abuse, separation, or divorce or because they had
                    rebelled against parental authority or committed some indiscretion had no immediate means of support
                    and often no place to stay. Most women who bore children at the poorhouse left within a few weeks
                    "to find work." The homeless and deserted were probably capable of work and
                    self-support but were caught without short-term means.
            Sex ratios, however, showed clear patterns. More men than women were admitted in both time periods,
                    but the proportion of women in the later group was much higher than the 1877–1879 group.
                    Nevertheless, more than three-fourths of those admitted overall were male, which differs markedly
                    from Katz's pre-1870 figures, but less so from his 1870–1886 data.26
            
            Age on admission varied widely according to condition (see Figure 2). Those accepted primarily for
                    old age were mostly in their sixties in the 1877–1879 group, but nearly all were in their
                    seventies in the 1887–1891 group, The small number of admissions of those ages
                    demonstrates that few people, particularly the poor, lived into their eighties in the late
                    nineteenth century. Those who were sick when they arrived at the poorhouse were distributed very
                    evenly by age (see Figure 3). Nearly equal numbers from the 13–19 age group through the
                    70–79 category were admitted for treatment of illness. The
                    "simpleminded" and the "insane," however, tended to be in their
                    twenties and thirties. Even though the 1887–1891 group covered a longer period of time,
                    fewer admissions were recorded for mental disorders because new state hospitals for the insane were
                    constructed or completed during this time and increasing numbers of the chronically insane were sent
                    to 
                        Indianapolis
                     or 
                        Logansport
                    , where they received closer attention.27
                    
                  
                     26 Katz, Poverty and Policy in American History,
                            76–77.
                  
                     27 See 
                                St. Joseph County
                             Poor Asylum Ledger, I; Indiana, Fifth Report of the Board of State
                                Charities, 30–39; Wilson, The Treatment of the Misdemeanant
                                in Indiana, 31–44; Joseph J. Rogers, "The State and Its
                            Insane" (Paper delivered at the Indiana Social Science Association, May 8, 1883, in
                            Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Indiana, Report of the Board of Commissioners for Additional
                                Hospitals for Insane (1886); and Indiana, Second Report of the Board
                                of State Charities, 66.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 1: REASONS GIVEN FOR ADMISSION TO THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY POOR ASYLUM
                  
                  Number
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 2: NUMBER OF ADMISSIONS TO
                            THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY POOR ASYLUM BY AGE GROUP
                  
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 3: NUMBER OF ADMISSIONS TO
                            THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY POOR ASYLUM FOR SICKNESS
                  
               
                     Simpleminded or insane people aged 60–80 were rare
                    in the 
                        St. Joseph County
                     Poor Asylum.
            The two largest age groups admitted under the heading "destitute/poor" were those
                    in their forties and sixties. Only one person aged 30-39 was admitted because of poverty over the
                    period of study. The very young and the very old were most often accepted because they were
                    homeless. Over 58 percent of these petitioners were under twelve or over seventy, but some homeless
                    people came from all age groups. Those admitted for pregnancy were most often aged 13–19;
                    fewer women in their twenties sought shelter, and only one woman over thirty.
            Given the severity of northern Indiana winters, one might expect seasonal patterns for admissions,
                    but this was not the case (see Figure 4).28 Entries to the poorhouse were
                    highest in January, March, and May and relatively high in July, October, and December. These figures
                    suggest that poorhouse admissions rose during periods of increased mobility; that is, when people
                    traveled in order to look for work or perhaps in response to the seasonal pattern of agricultural
                    labor. Arriving in 
                        South Bend
                     or 
                        Mishawaka
                    , sojourners may have spent a few days at the poorhouse while recuperating from illneses
                    and looking for new work. Warmer weather provided the opportunity for travel with reduced danger of
                    cold. While at least one study of another region showed an increase during the winter months and
                    decline in warm weather, seasonal variations tended to be a feature of large metropolitan areas.29
                    
                        South Bend
                     possessed a considerable industrial base for its day, but it was not a metropolis by
                    any definition. A few who were helped at the poor farm were from outside the county, but they did
                    not stay for an extended period. The trustee referral system minimized aid for outsiders.
            Death proved to be the second most significant means of escape from the poorhouse (see Figure 5),
                    indicating the large number of elderly and seriously sick or injured who received care. Cause of
                    death often does not appear in the ledger. Although some who died were taken by friends and
                    relatives for burial, many were interred in area cemeteries or on the poor farm at county expense.
                    It is a sad scenario to consider the sense of desolation that must have accompanied an approaching
                    anonymous death in the poorhouse and burial at the county farm. Records also indicate that one could
                    be discharged from the poorhouse; there was a distinction often made between "left
                    voluntarily" or "left to get work" and 
                  
                     28 Katz also finds a weak connection between seasons of the year and
                            poorhouse admisions in 
                                Erie County
                            , 
                                New York
                            . See Katz, Poverty and Policy in American History, 64.
                  
                     29 See Charles O. Burgess, "The Newspaper As Charity Worker:
                            Poor Relief in 
                                New York City
                            , 1893–94," 
                        
                                    New York
                                 History, XLIII (July, 1962), 249–68.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 4: ADMISSIONS TO THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY POOR ASYLUM BY
                                MONTHS
                  
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 5: REASONS FOR DEPARTURE FROM
                            THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY POOR ASYLUM
                  
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 6: LENGTH OF STAY AT THE ST.
                                JOSEPH COUNTY POOR ASYLUM, 1877–1891
               
                     "discharged." Those forced to leave may have
                    worn out their welcome or have been judged able to provide their own care.30
            
            Most residents of 
                        St. Joseph County
                    's poorhouse were only temporary residents (see Figure 6). The average length
                    of stay in the two periods was 311.1 days. This figure, however, is high because it reflects lodging
                    of all residents; one elderly person stayed over sixteen years. For those sheltered less than one
                    year, the average time was sixty-four days. The poorhouse most often catered to those who stayed
                    less than thirty days; only the elderly tended toward permanent residency as a group. Others were
                    assisted and then encouraged to leave.
            Records indicate, then, that the 
                        St. Joseph County
                     poorhouse was a short-term residence, although for the elderly it was often a long-term
                    home and occasionally a final resting place. If it was not the most desirable place to live,
                    eyewitness reports described it as at least minimally comfortable; surely it offered advantages over
                    living on the street. The poverty of the poorhouse's residents was taken for granted, but
                    other factors strongly influenced the decision to go there as well. Poor relief officials generally
                    showed a genuine concern for the poor while simultaneously closely monitoring limited budgets. Their
                    assumption, and the sense of the poor relief system, was that at least some help must be given to
                    the helpless.
            Sources also indicate that changes in outdoor relief policy, if they occurred in Indiana in this
                    period, did not increase the number of individuals who were assisted at the poorhouse. The 
                        St. Joseph County
                     poorhouse appears to have became more a home for the infirm and elderly just as total
                    numbers in residence slowly shrank. If anything, changes became less, rather than more, punitive in
                    nature. More research is needed to determine whether "less eligibility" became a
                    criterion for the administration of outdoor relief in Indiana and the remainder of the Midwest and
                    whether economic prosperity, poor relief policy, or an as yet unknown factor affected the
                    composition of the residents of Indiana's poorhouse.
            
               
                  30 Numerical precision concerning this distinction is impossible with the
                        present data.
            
         
         
         
            Memories of Hoosier Homemakers: A Review Essay
            Barbara J. Steinson∗
            
            Indiana homemakers formed the first home economics clubs in 1913 to receive home economics lessons
                    developed by the Cooperative Extension Service of Purdue University. In 1980 the Indiana Extension
                    Homemakers Association (IEHA) launched a statewide oral history project to commemorate the
                    seventy-fifth anniversary of the first clubs in 1988. IEHA originally intended to prepare an
                    organizational history, but planners discovered a "lack of documentation" on the
                    subject and thus extended their inquiry to include an exploration of homemaking itself. IEHA
                    volunteers attended workshops on oral history methodology before conducting and transcribing
                    interviews with almost three hundred Indiana homemakers from nearly every county in the state. Since
                    most of the women interviewed were over seventy, fieldworkers sought in particular to recover
                    experiences of homemakers between 1910 and the 1940s.1
            
            Success is evident in Memories of Hoosier Homemakers, a six-volume series
                    containing a wealth of raw data on the social history of Indiana rural and small-town women.2 Eleanor Arnold, who has directed the project since its inception and has
                    edited each of the volumes, has been assisted with oral history by F. Gerald Hand-field, 
                  
                     ∗ Barbara J. Steinson is associate professor of history at
                            DePauw University, 
                                Greencastle
                            . She is the author of American Women's Activism in World
                                War I (1982) and articles on women in the peace and preparedness movements.
                  
                     1 Eleanor Arnold, ed., Feeding our Families (Memories of
                                Hoosier Homemakers Series; [
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1983]), 1–4. The Indiana Extension Homemakers Association has
                            approximately 45,000 members with local clubs in every county. Although names over the years
                            have been Home Economics Clubs, Home Demonstration Clubs, and now Extension Homemaker Clubs,
                            most of the interviewees refer to the organization simply as "club" or
                            "home ec."
                  
                     2 The project has received support from the IEHA, the Indiana
                            Historical Society, the Indiana Humanities Council, and the National Endowment for the
                            Humanities. It has served as the pilot project for an oral history of the national
                            organization and for other states conducting oral histories of homemakers.
               
                    
                    
                  PREPARING THE THANKSGIVING MEAL,
                                CLAY CITY, INDIANA, 1931
                  Courtesy J. C. Allen & Son Collection, West 
                                Lafayette
                            .
               
                     Jr., and with photographic selection by Paul Wilson.3 Although some volumes add more to our historical understanding than others,
                    each is replete with poignant, humorous, and matter-of-fact recollections of life in rural Indiana.
                    The first volume, Feeding our Families, details homemakers' work in all
                    stages of food preparation from gardening and butchering to baking and serving; Party
                        Lines, Pumps and Privies examines the impact of the most significant technological changes
                    on rural homes and homemakers; Buggies and Bad Times surveys transportation
                    changes and the impact of wars and economic depression on rural Hoosiers; Girlhood
                    Days offers accounts of growing up; and Going to Club focuses on IEHA club
                    activities and leaders.4 A sixth and final volume, to be published in June,
                    1990, will explore the personal lives of home-makers and their relationships with husbands and
                    families, including courtship, marriage, childbirth, child rearing, and widowhood. The volumes are
                    arranged topically with relevant segments of interviews presented under each heading, and each
                    segment in turn is identified by the interviewee's name, county of residence when
                    interviewed, and age, making it possible to approximate the time period of each recollection. Arnold
                    often places materials in chronological order, which proves effective in presenting technological
                    changes. Splendid photographs, gathered from women around the state and from collections at Purdue
                    University, accompany the text.
            
               Memories of Hoosier Homemakers is an eloquent testimonial to the merits of oral
                    history in that it provides details about the lives of ordinary rural women and their families
                    rarely examined in written accounts. Since the volunteer interviewers selected friends and neighbors
                    as subjects, there was "an easy assumption of basic shared knowledge between the
                        two."5 Interviewers were furnished with a list of suggested
                    questions that focused on homemaking practices, personal lives, home economics clubs, and the impact
                    of external events. The effectiveness of questions, however, reveals 
                  
                     3 Arnold, who was IEHA state president in 1977, also served as editor
                            of the newsletter, Hoosier Homemaker, for four years and was head of the
                            Public Information Committee, which organized creative writing workshops. She describes the
                            oral history project as the "direct descendant of the workshops, because it was
                            there that I was reinforced in an idea I had always had—that Homemaker members
                            had wonderful stories to tell." Eleanor Arnold, ed., Going to Club
                                (Memories of Hoosier Homemakers Series; [
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1987]), 156.
                  
                     4 Eleanor Arnold, ed., Feeding our Families; Arnold,
                            ed., Party Lines, Pumps and Privies (Memories of Hoosier Homemakers
                            Series; [
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1984]); Arnold, ed., Buggies and Bad Times (Memories of Hoosier
                                Homemakers Series; [
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1985]); Arnold, ed., Girlhood Days (Memories of Hoosier
                                Homemakers Series; [
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1987]); and Going to Club.
                  
                  
                     5 All interviews for Feeding our Families were
                            conducted between September, 1980, and February, 1983.
               
                     some of oral history's limitations.6 For example, the topic of home-making elicited detailed and illuminating responses, but
                    comments concerning the impact of external events, such as wars, seemed much less informed and more
                        general.7 It is unclear whether the occasional failures to probe revealing
                    or insightful statements resulted from editorial decisions or the actual interviews. Readers will be
                    frustrated at times with the short excerpts of interviews and will likely yearn for longer
                    conversations with some of the women.
            It is also regrettable that each section's introduction merely summarizes women's
                    comments and makes few connections to broader historical themes. An appendix offering some
                    indication of the socioeconomic status, religion, ethnic background, and farm or small-town location
                    would have been helpful; as it stands, inferences on how economic, social, religious, or residential
                    differences affected the choices the homemakers and their families made are left to the readers.8 Finally, the repetition of several recollections in different volumes detracts
                    from the project's effectiveness. These flaws do not, however, minimize the overall
                    achievement of Arnold and the many women working with her.
            A number of themes—either explicit or implicit—appear throughout the five IEHA
                    volumes: neighborhood interdependence, effects of technological change, gender roles on the farm,
                    and the significance of home economics and associational activities for rural women. In an attempt
                    to highlight these general facets of rural life, this essay will quote extensively from the
                    homemakers' own words in order to convey the richness of their recollections. It will also
                    attempt to place these topics in the larger contexts of twentieth-century life and women's
                    history and to suggest the significance of this data in connection with some historiographical
                    issues in these fields. Neighborliness in rural Indiana communities in the first decades of the
                    twentieth century meant involvement in a dense web 
                  
                     6 A valuable and concise statement on oral history is provided by
                            Ronald J. Grele, "On Using Oral History Collections: An Introduction," Journal of American History, LXXIV (September, 1987), 570–78.
                            Grele notes that interviewers have as much impact on the content of interviews as
                            interviewees.
                  
                     7
                            Feeding our Families, 4. The specific list of topics was as follows:
                            "experience with IEHA; her chronological history, including life as a girl,
                            courtship and marriage, childbearing and child rearing, and memories of the influence of
                            outside events, such as wars, on her life. Further topics on her role as homemaker included
                            questions on her typical daily housekeeping routines in various stages of her life; a
                            comparison of her life with that of her mother and of her daughter; the effect of technology
                            on homemaking chores, and others. A final section dealt with her judgments and values
                            … and her opinions on aspects of husband-wife and parent-child
                            relationships." Ibid., 2.
                  
                     8 The first five volumes contain almost no information on religion or
                            ethnicity. Given the importance of religion and churches in the social and spiritual lives
                            of rural Americans in the early twentieth century, it was disappointing that religion was
                            covered in only ten pages in Girlhood Days, 172–83.
               
                    
                    
                  A TYPICAL CLUB OF THE 1930s, WITH WOMEN OF ALL AGES PRESENT
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Extension Homemakers Association Collection.
               
                     of interdependent social and economic relationships.
                    Neighboring families, secure in the knowledge that others would reciprocate, shared food and labor.
                    The strong sense of community, based on friendship, trust, and cooperation, was evident in each
                    volume of Memories of Hoosier Homemakers. Descriptions of hog butchering and wheat
                    threshing days in particular, as well as the routine trading in daily life recorded in Feeding our Families, offer clear portraits of community interdependence.
            Entire neighborhoods gathered for summer threshings and late autumn butcherings and combined
                    socializing with hard physical labor. These days were especially happy for younger children who
                    "loved to run around" while the adults worked. Nothing went to waste among their
                    thrifty and practical elders who found ways to use all parts of the hogs; even the bladders on
                    butchering days were blown up "as children play with balloons today."9 The work involved in threshing and butchering and preserving pork was strictly
                    divided by gender.10 Men did the threshing in the fields, killed and scrubbed
                    the hogs, hung the carcasses, and rendered the lard, while the women prepared the dinners for the
                    large gatherings and cleaned the entrails for sausage casings: 
                        They would start at the top or tail end and a man with a real sharp butchering knife would
                            make a straight line clear down to the head. They'd lay that hog open. They would
                            take the entrails out… .
                        As soon as the entrails were emptied and brought in, three or four women with their little
                            scrub boards would clean and scrape the entrails until they were clean. To clean the casings
                            [entrails] wasn't always the most pleasant odors, but you had to put up with it
                            because it was necessary that they be clean. If the hogs didn't have worms, you had
                            a good casing to stuff sausage.11
                  
                     During the harvest season there were constant dinners: "You didn't do all
                    this [threshing] by yourself. You furnished all the food, but you went from house to house and
                    helped each other." We "worked hard to get the meals ready," one woman
                    from 
                        Decatur County
                     remarked, but saw it as "a time for visiting and fellowship together with our
                        neighbors."12 Even though women were known for their different
                    specialties at threshing dinners, meals on butchering days generally consisted of fresh livers and
                    hearts with 
                  
                     9
                            Feeding Our Families, 42–43.
                  
                     10 There are several studies of gender roles but most relevant to the
                            homemaker interviews is John Mack Faragher's Women and Men on the
                                Overland Trail (
                                New Haven
                            , 1979). Despite the fact that Faragher's data are drawn from the
                            mid-nineteenth century, there is a remarkable similarity between the gender role assignments
                            he found and those described in Memories of Hoosier Homemakers. His
                            working definition of gender is one that also serves well in understanding rural Indiana
                            families: "gender roles are social regularities observed in what men and women do
                            and the ways they think and feel about what they do, as well as how and why they do what
                            they do." Ibid., 48.
                  
                     11
                            Feeding Our Families, 43.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 148.
               
                     gravy and biscuits. "We were awful glad if they could
                    get one hog ready, so you could have some of the fresh meat to cook for dinner… . If you
                    could get the liver out of one hog, you had it made."13 When threshing
                    in the entire neighborhood was over, a threshing meeting was held to settle up: 
                        Everybody had to pay the men that did the threshing, and if some of them had had more
                            threshing tha[n] the others, they paid the others accordingly. Some of them
                            wouldn't take anything, they just did it because of the friendship and fellowship
                            with each other.
                        And then we had ice cream and cake. The women would bake cakes and we would make ice
                                cream.14
                  
                     At the end of each butchering day, meat would be distributed to neighbors. One woman
                    remembered giving away meat but added, "We were always generous because they were generous
                    to us." Neighbors, some of whom even specified the pieces they wanted, took home fresh
                    meat, and "then when they butchered you got it back."15
            
            After neighbors departed on butchering days, hard work remained for homemakers, who had primary
                    responsibility for preserving the pork. Home freezers were not marketed until the early 1950s, and
                    locker plants were not common before World War II, which made food storage a critical job:
                    "The day of the butchering wasn't so hard on the women as the next day, when you
                    had to get the meat all ready. Now that was the woman's big day."16 Details on diverse methods of making sausage and curing meat indicated family specialties,
                    different ethnic influences, and variations within communities on how best to preserve the pork
                    without waste.
            Butcherings and threshings were special events necessitating neighborly reciprocity, but homemakers
                    depended daily upon one another in more mundane ways. They traded fruits, cooked meals in times of
                    sickness, offered to run errands, and, crucial for baking, shared their yeast starter when
                    another's ran out or soured: 
                        They all expected to share with one another. If you ran out of your yeast, why they just went
                            to someone who had it. They'd start, have their starter and then, like if it was my
                            mother, then she'd bake her bread the next day, and take it back to them, then they
                            could bake the next day.17
                  
                     Community bonds were further strengthened by the rural church, where worship was regularly
                    combined with socializing. Church members, who were often both neighbors and relatives, frequently
                        
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 44.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 144.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 41, 50.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 51. Locker plants in town enabled families to freeze meats before
                            they had home freezers, but none of the oldest interviewees spoke of lockers.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 90.
               
                     gathered for a Sunday meal after their worship services.
                    Reciprocity governed these events as well: "The folks would decide at church and ask
                    somebody home with them after church. And, of course, we were asked to their home for dinner in
                    return sometimes."18
            
            Cooperation between neighbors was even important in securing electricity, which transformed food
                    preservation and preparation along with several other facets of homemaking. Recollections recorded
                    in Party Lines, Pumps and Privies of initial reactions to electrical power and
                    appliances offer valuable evidence of the cultural impact of technological change on ordinary
                    people, especially on women who had been homemakers for years before the innovations were available
                    to them.
            Power lines penetrated rural Indiana gradually. The Rural Electric Membership Corporation in Indiana
                    extended electrical power to many farm families in the 1930s, but a sizable number remained without
                    electricity until after World War II. Although most were aware of electricity's potential
                    benefits for their own lives—some families generated their own electricity with a Delco
                    battery system19—neighborly persuasion was often needed to obtain
                    enough new customers to support and justify an electrical line: 
                        Several evenings we had the neighbors in to talk about it.
                        There had to be quite a few patrons on the line within a mile for them to be willing to do
                            it. We also had to agree to each of us buy an appliance so that they would be sure that we
                            would use enough electricity to pay them to put the lines out.
                        Finally, I think there were eleven of us signed up, and they were willing to do it.
                            That's the way we got our line—by pushing that project.20
                  
                     Homemaker clubs and extension agents, in educating people about electricity, also
                    indirectly promoted rural consumerism; demonstrations were given on "how much light
                    you'd get from a candle, and then how much you'd get from an electric
                    bulb." In addition, homemaker clubs addressed the issue of cost, a major concern of many
                    rural families during the Depression era. "So many people thought we couldn't
                    afford it, and the lesson was `We Can't Afford Not To Use
                    Electricity,'" one narrator recalled. Despite these efforts there were "a
                    lot of people that didn't do it"; some not only resisted electricity for
                    themselves but "wouldn't let them set poles on their place, so electricity could
                    go past them on that road."21
            
            Examination of oral testimony demonstrates that family conflicts over the desirability of electricity
                    reflected generational 
                  
                     18
                            Girlhood Days, 181.
                  
                     19 A Delco battery plant "had large batteries and it had an
                            engine that was run with gasoline and the motor charged those batteries." Party Lines, Pumps and Privies, 125.
                  
                     20
                            lbid., 127.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 127, 128.
               
                    
                    
                  EXHIBIT TO ENCOURAGE USE OF ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT AT 1934 INDIANA
                                STATE FAIR
                  
                  Courtesy J. C. Allen Photo File, Purdue University Agricultural Communication Service, West 
                                Lafayette
                            .
                rather than gender differences. "Well, mother said, `We'll still keep
                    the [kerosene] lamp, because you don't know what the things will do… . People
                    making things and plugging them in, it just won't work.'" Another
                    remembered "when my folks first got electricity after World War II out in the country. It
                    was quite exciting for them. My grandmother, who lived with them, was quite elderly, and she
                    didn't think they needed it."22 Husbands, in contrast, were
                    often eager to provide their wives with appliances that promised to lighten the housework load. One
                    homemaker's threat to go on strike for a washing machine induced her husband's
                    purchase, but in many other cases, men actually surprised their families with the appliances. 
                        Our neighbors, they got a washing machine first. Lester saw it… [a]nd so that put
                            the idea in his head and he went down, and it happened that they had another one there, so
                            he bought it.
                        And, land, I never even thought about such a thing, but I was really happy.23
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 139, 140.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 67.
               
                     Another husband "couldn't wait. He had me an
                    iron bought."24 These purchases also illustrate society's
                    gender divisions in family spending practices: because women shopped for groceries, advertisers
                    targeted women, but in almost all of these recollections, the first appliances were purchased by men
                    because they were held responsible for credit and finances. Although no single appliance appears to
                    have made the most difference in women's lives, there is a clear consensus that
                    "electricity made it so much easier to do many things involved in home and
                    housekeeping." Over and over the women expressed in unpretentious and straightforward terms
                    this sentiment: "Electricity, it's wonderful. I wish I could have had it all my
                        life."25
            
            As the shift from kerosene and gasoline lamps to electric light bulbs progressed, family lifestyles
                    began to be transformed as well. Before electricity, "We went to bed early. And then it was
                    7:00 or 7:30 by the time you got your milking done, and by the time you got in and got your supper
                    over, it was about bedtime," a Pulsaki County resident remembered. The difficulty of doing
                    chores at night was evident in one woman's memory of canning after dark: "I
                    don't know how many flies and things we canned, because we couldn't see. But we
                    did it, and it didn't kill us."26 Women also recalled the
                    dirt, smells, and dangers of kerosene and gasoline lamps. "Every once in a while Mom would
                    say, `Well, we've got to have fresh air in here,' and she'd open up the
                    door or the windows. She was always afraid the fumes from the lamps would suffocate us."27 In adddition, the oral histories evoke the sense of awe and wonder associated
                    with first seeing one's home electrified: "I remember the first night we had it
                    [electricity]. Daddy had been out and didn't know they had come and turned it on. So we let
                    him start to the barn with the lanterns and then we turned it on. The expression he had on his
                    face—there was no way you could describe it."28 Finally,
                    pitfalls of inexperience with electricity were also recorded. Apparently, home extension lessons on
                    its use had not reached everyone because more than one woman spoke of her own
                    "lesson" with electricity: "One night I decided that I would fix my light
                    plug and—without turning off the current—I attempted to cut off the plug.
                    Needless to say, I had a nice indentation in my knife. The electricity just melted the knife where I
                    tried to cut it."29
            
            Ruth Schwartz Cowan in More Work for Mother emphasizes that class and residence were crucial
                    determinants of when families 
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 131.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 134.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 136, 137.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 137.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 140.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 132.
               
                     acquired not only electricity but also indoor plumbing and
                    central heating. She cites a 1934 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture Farm Housing Survey to show how limited the dispersion of
                    these household technologies was in rural areas: 
                        only 20 percent of the farmhouses in Missouri had a kitchen sink with a drain, …
                            only 7 percent of those in Kentucky had a bathroom, … only 25 percent of those in
                            the state of 
                                Washington
                             … had flush toilets, and … only 17 percent of those in 
                                Ohio
                             … had electricity.30
                  
                     The Memories of Hoosier Homemakers oral histories confirm the scarcity of
                    these conveniences in rural Indiana before World War II as well.31 Cowan
                    concludes that "in the forty years since the end of the Second World War, the amenities
                    that were once reserved for just part of the population have become the basic standard for the lives
                    of almost everyone."32
                    Party Lines, Pumps and Privies gives individual context to Cowan's
                    statistics through detailed accounts of transformations in rural lives brought by electricity,
                    indoor plumbing, and central heating.
            Cowan's central thesis, however, that the "diffusion of amenities was accompanied
                    … by increases in the amount of work that some housewives had to do, and in the level of
                    productivity that others were able to achieve," does not accurately reflect the experiences
                    of rural Indiana homemakers.33 While her argument may be convincing for
                    middle-class urban women and while her comments about increased productivity and greater results are
                    certainly applicable to the Hoosier homemakers, the evidence in these interviews makes it impossible
                    to believe that the amount of housework was greater for postwar rural women than for their mothers.
                    "The work processes of housework may have changed substantially since 1940," Cowan
                    notes, "but the work itself has not gone away."34 Overall,
                    Cowan gives too little weight to the changes in the process and the amount of physical labor
                    involved. After reading the words of Hoosier women who went from scrub boards to automatic washers
                    within their lifetimes, one can only 
                  
                     30 Cited in Ruth Schwartz Cowan, More Work for Mother:
                                The Ironies of Household Technology from the Open Hearth to the Microwave (
                                New York
                            , 1983), 185–86.
                  
                     31 Since Party Lines, Pumps and Privies does not
                            include data on social class or residence, one can only speculate that the first to obtain
                            electricity were those most able to afford it or those closest to town.
                  
                     32 Cowan, More Work for Mother, 196.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 192. Such a thesis would, in fact, have produced considerable
                            amusement among these Hoosier homemakers.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 193. Cowan correctly notes, however, that in the second postwar
                            generation far more women worked outside the home and that when employment plus housework
                            are added, women after World War II had more work than their mothers.
               
                     conclude that changes in "process" were more
                    important to the women who experienced them than to later historians.35
            
            The first section of Buggies and Bad Times also addresses technological change
                    through a coherent chronological overview of shifts in transportation.36
                    "Bombs and Bad Times: Homemakers Look at History," the second half of this volume,
                    is, however, somewhat uneven because critical topics such as women's suffrage and
                    Prohibition, for whatever reasons, are neglected. Several of the interviewees, for example, are old
                    enough to have been among the first generation of women voters and to have lived through World War I
                    and Prohibition, and while younger women were able to recall in detail their mothers'
                    attitudes and activities in other areas, they, too, might have had some interesting observations on
                    these topics. Since several women had recollections of the war, one wishes that more specific
                    questions had been asked. "What do you remember about World War I?" elicited
                    little information either on the homefront or about women's attitudes toward war.37
            
            Observations on the Ku Klux Klan, however, provide insights on the organization's impact on
                    rural Indiana. These Klan stories compensate for the disappointments of this volume. The revived Ku
                    Klux Klan had more members in Indiana in the early 1920s than in perhaps any other state; estimates
                    range from a quarter to a half million members.38 The commonplace nature of the
                    Klan in rural Indiana is evident in the matter-of-fact tone found in many recollections;
                    interviewees remember that the KKK was present, that some neighbors and relatives were members, and
                    that it was secretive and mysterious, especially to children. "I had an uncle that had
                    quite a limp," one woman recalled, "and we had a lot of 
                  
                     35 One author argues that "the automatic washer probably
                            restructured rather than reduced laundry time" because it "changed the
                            laundry pile from a weekly nightmare to an unending task, increasing the size of the pile
                            … and possibly even the housewife's working time, which was now spread
                            out over the week." See Susan Strasser, Never Done: A History of
                                American Housework (
                                New York
                            , 1982), 268. Strasser and Cowan may be correct about the time involved, but the
                            physical labor involved is very different.
                  
                     36 Testimony about horses and buggies, roads, and early automobiles
                            are the most interesting segments. Although some women remembered automobiles as early as
                            1905 and while others did not have access to cars until the 1930s, for most rural residents
                            the 1920s saw the increase of good roads and efficient cars, both of which reduced travel
                            times and diminished distances.
                  
                     37 It is likely that the interviewers were more familiar with the
                            areas of food preparation and technological changes within the home than with specific
                            aspects of World War I, although the section on the war does include interesting information
                            on special recipes for dealing with food shortages and the influenza epidemic of
                            1918–1919: "The flu was so bad that people couldn't get help. I
                            thought I'd go to a neighbor and try to help them. I went and was there one day,
                            and I took the flu and had to go home." Buggies and Bad Times,
                            75.
                  
                     38 Emma Lou Thornbrough, "Segregation in Indiana during the
                            Klan Era of the 1920's," Mississippi Valley Historical
                                Review, XLVII (March, 1961), 609. See also James H. Madison, Indiana
                                through Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier State and Its People,
                                1920–1945 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982), 44–55.
               
                    
                    
                  A TEACHER, ALMOST INDISTINGUISHABLE
                            BY SIZE OR AGE, POSES TO THE RIGHT OF HER STUDENTS
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Extension Homemakers Association Collection.
               
                    
                  THE WOMEN'S KU KLUX KLAN, HARTFORD CITY, INDIANA
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society. Neg. No. C4238.
               
                     fun, because we knew he was walking past us [in a KKK march],
                    hopping along." Another interviewee remembered that "it was quite a mystery. I was
                    never quite sure, but I thought I had two uncles in it—one from my mother's
                    family and one from my father's.";39 The Klan's
                    secrecy and beliefs created some tension and uneasiness in tightly knit rural communities. Some
                    women noted their own parents' disapproval of the KKK and the clear sense that they did not
                    associate with KKK members; "the ones that we did know that were in [the Klan], we
                    weren't around much." Knowing that relatives and neighbors might be involved was
                    "kind of eerie," for "you never knew exactly who it was, because they
                    were always disguised with their costuming."40 Some went to watch the
                    marches, but not with approbation: "We were parked along the side of the street, and we saw
                    them march down the street. My mother and father thought that was just awful …
                    ." After a cross burning one woman's parents expressed sorrow, and many recalled
                    their fears as children when they saw a burning cross.41 The dominance and
                    hypocrisy of the Klan were poignantly recalled by a 
                        Parke County
                     resident: 
                        Just about half or more of the people in 
                                Parke County
                             belonged to it. I didn't, nor Joe didn't and Joe's
                            mother didn't.
                        I couldn't see where they could be Christians if they hated certain people. But they
                            pretended to be Christians and held [some] of their meetings in churches. Preachers preached
                            that, you know, that you should join the Ku Klux Klan. They had church meetings and filled
                            the churches, and took up money. They passed the plate around and took in a lot of money,
                            which probably went to the head, to the upper officers.
                        I thought they did a lot of damage. They burned a cross in the courthouse yard for a certain
                            woman who lived right there, a Catholic woman. I like that woman, and I thought they
                            weren't much of a Christian if they could do that.42
                  
                    
            
            The KKK, with its secrecy and cross burnings, may have intimidated large numbers of people who felt
                    powerless to oppose it, but occasionally individuals found ways of demonstrating their disgust with
                    the organizaiton, as a 
                        Shelby County
                     woman recalls: 
                        There was a group of Ku Klux Klan meeting at a little country church near Needham. It was
                            quitting time, so my husband unhitched his horses and was going to drive them home. He was
                            going to have to drive them through this group of Ku Klux Klan all dressed up in their
                            whites.
                        There was devilment in him, so he wound the lines around the collars of the horses and
                            smacked the horses on the rear, and turned them loose. Of course, they were anxious to get
                            home, and they run right through the Ku Klux Klan. Those Klanners all run and tried to climb
                            fences and everything else.
                        He loves to tell that story. He was Catholic, and the church was within a half mile of their
                            house. It was sort of a get-even deal, I think.43
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     39
                            Buggies and Bad Times, 88, 84.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 88.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 85, 87.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 86.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., 88–89.
               
                     Anti-Catholicism was the major source of KKK antagonism in
                    rural Indiana, although blacks and errant whites were also targets. "I think it was to
                    scare people," one woman explained, "colored and white people, too."44 In 
                        Perry County
                     the White Caps, which operated like the Klan, "tried to scare people, and if
                    they had a grudge against someone, or thought he was lazy and not providing for his family,
                    they'd take him out and flog him. [They'd] leave a bunch of switches at
                    people's door as a warning."45
            
            This very provocative section of Memories of Hoosier Home-makers suggests several
                    questions for additional oral histories on the Indiana Ku Klux Klan. Was there a lingering mistrust
                    within communities after the membership declined later in the decade? Were KKK activities later
                    perceived as aberrations from community values, or were they reflections of values that were usually
                    expressed in less visible ways? It would be interesting to explore the longer term impact of the
                    Klan on rural Indiana.
            Unlike the testimony about the Klan, as a whole Buggies and Bad Times offers little
                    new material that is not available in other oral history and documentary collections on the
                    Depression and World War II.46 Although some recalled the Depression as an
                    especially difficult time, others felt only slightly affected because they had never had much cash,
                    had always been frugal, and had food from their gardens. From these accounts it appears that during
                    the the Depression families continued old patterns of neighborhood interdependence, exemplified in
                    trading, sharing, and working together. Although rural Hoosiers expressed concern for neighbors who
                    were experiencing severe economic problems, this compassion had definite limits, as evident in the
                    hostile comments by a 
                        Huntington County
                     woman toward townspeople, believed to be stealing from rural folk: "And the
                    country folks had worked like 
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 86. Thornbrough found that statewide, "Appeal to race
                            prejudice, in comparison to the appeal to anti-Catholicism, was relatively slight despite
                            Indiana's long history of racial bigotry." Thornbrough,
                            "Segregation in Indiana," 610.
                  
                     45
                            Buggies and Bad Times, 89.
                  
                     46 Sources for the Depression and World War II include Studs Terkel,
                                Hard Times: An Oral History of the Great Depression (
                                New York
                            , 1970); U.S., Works Progress Administration, Federal Writers' Project,
                                These are our Lives … (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1939); Tom E. Terrill and Jerrold Hirsch, eds., Such as Us:
                                Southern Voices of the Thirties (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 1978); Ann Banks, ed., First Person America (
                                New York
                            , 1980); Jeane Westin, Making Do: How Women Survived the
                                '30s (
                                Chicago
                            , 1976); Richard Lowitt and Maurine Beasley, eds., One Third of a
                                Nation: Lorena Hickok Reports on the Great Depression (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1981); D'Ann 
                                Campbell
                            , Women at War with America: Private Lives in a Patriotic Era (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1984); John Morton Blum, V was for Victory: Politics and
                                American Culture during World War II (
                                New York
                            , 1976); Richard R. Lingeman, Don't You Know
                                There's a War On? The American Home Front, 1941–1945 (
                                New York
                            , 1970); Studs Terkel, "The Good War": An Oral History of
                            World War Two (
                                New York
                            , 1984); and Sherna Berger Gluck, Rosie the Riveter Revisited:
                                Women, the War and Social Change (
                                Boston
                            , 1987).
               
                     the dickens to get these things [garden produce and farm
                    animals], and that's the way they'd do [steal]. And they'd even come and
                    steal hogs. You just about had to lock your fences, and then they would saw the locks off, so they
                    could get your things."47 Except for a short section entitled
                    "Government Jobs," which includes a few comments on Works Progress Administration
                    jobs and the Civilian Conservation Corps, there is nothing on the impact of the New Deal on rural
                    Indiana. Surely the Agricultural Adjustment Administration and possibly the Farm Security
                    Administration must have touched the lives of many of these women.
            Accounts of World War II centered on relatives in the service and the consequences of gas, tire,
                    sugar, and shoe rationing. Depending on their own needs, neighbors often traded ration stamps with
                    one another. In spite of shortages, the war, some recalled, did bring economic recovery through
                    expanded farm production and availability of new jobs. These jobs often drew women from rural
                    communities, and several interviewees echoed William Chafe's thesis that World War II was a
                    major turning point for American women: "many of them didn't go back to being just
                    homemakers after the war. They just kept on with their jobs. They had learned that they could do
                    both jobs."48
            
            
               Girlhood Days differs from the other volumes in the series because it focuses
                    synchronically on the first twenty-five years of this century and thus provides richly detailed but
                    rather static portraits of rural childhoods.49 Fortunately, most of the women
                    did not romanticize their youths. Given the pitfalls of reconstructing childhoods from the
                    perspective of elderly adults, this volume seems remarkably free of nostalgia.50
                    It is to be hoped that some crucial aspects of growing up female not covered in this volume will be
                    addressed in the final volume. For example, what were their girlhood 
                  
                     47
                            Buggies and Bad Times, 93.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 146. William Chafe's The American Woman: Her
                                Changing Social, Economic and Political Roles, 1920–1970 (
                                New York
                            , 1972) has been challenged by studies that stress continuity with employment
                            patterns in the 1930s. See Karen Anderson, Wartime Women: Sex Roles, Family
                                Relations, and the Status of Women during World War II (
                                Westport
                            , Conn., 1981); and 
                                Campbell
                            , Women at War with America.
                  
                  
                     49 A survey of quotations in two sections supports these
                            generalizations. In the "Chores" portion of chapter 1, "Growing
                            up in my Home," all but 20 of the quotations were from interviews with women age
                            sixty-eight or above, and in the entire "Growing up at my School" chapter,
                            all but 33 of the 174 quotations were by women over sixty-eight. Since the interviews were
                            conducted between 1980 and 1983, the youngest of these women would have been born in 1915.
                  
                     50 Jay Mechling argues that a much greater effort must be made to
                            reconstruct childhood from the perspective of children themselves. He cautions that
                            "the adult recollecting in 1987 her 1920 childhood will be perceiving and
                            interpreting that childhood through her adult, learned categories—from adult
                            notions of propriety to the special vocabularies of popularized psychology." Jay
                            Mechling, "Oral Evidence and the History of American Children's
                            Lives," Journal of American History, LXXIV (September, 1987),
                            581.
               
                     rites of passage; how and when did they learn about
                    menstruation; how did they learn about human sexuality; what kind of relationships did they have
                    with mothers and sisters; what were their courting rituals?
            Among the many glimpses of life that are documented in Girlhood Days, some of the
                    most illuminating are those which examine gender roles on the farm, attitudes toward school, and
                    health conditions. Families described were large, and the children, like their colonial and
                    nineteenth-century rural predecessors, still labored on the family farm. Many spoke of performing
                    farm and house chores by the time they were seven. Such tasks included collecting eggs, feeding
                    chickens, filling and hauling water buckets, carrying wood, gardening, and assisting with baking and
                        washing.51 Whether or not girls undertook other farm tasks depended largely
                    on the sexual composition of the family and the attitudes of the father. Assignments based on gender
                    may have irritated some girls, who as elderly women still recalled their exclusion from certain
                    jobs. Although some girls milked cows and helped in the fields (especially when there were not
                    "near as many boys as there was girls" in the family), other fathers refused to
                    let their daughters perform what they considered "male only" tasks. "My
                    father was one of those," a 
                        Lagrange County
                     woman explained, "he didn't want the women working out in the fields.
                    He was very strict about that. We would beg to work." Another father constantly reminded
                    his daughters, " `Your place is to help your mother, and I don't want you out
                    around here, with the stock.'" One farmer, willing to let his daughter work as a
                    field hand, felt more comfortable giving her a male nickname: "My dad had no boys and he
                    always called me Tommy. The other three girls worked in the kitchen and around there, but I always
                    helped feed the horses and hogs and do things like that… . And he called me
                        Tommy."52 Fulfilling male work roles, however, did not reduce
                    traditional female responsibilities: 
                        It wasn't hardly fair—the men would come to the house at noon; they would
                            feed the stock and then they would sit down while Mother and us girls had to get the lunch
                            ready. The men could eat, sit down, and rest again while we cleared up. There
                            wasn't any rest for us—we just had to go back to the field. Same way in
                            the evening. When we would get through in the evening, Dad and the boys got their chores
                            done and they could quit. But our work went on and on, because we had to get ready for the
                            next day53
                  
                    
            
            For many families farm work often took precedence over school attendance; consequently, it was not
                    unusual for parents to 
                  
                     51 These chores are remarkably close to those assigned to girls on the
                            midwestern family farms in the 1850s studied by Faragher in Women and Men on
                                the Overland Trail.
                  
                  
                     52
                            Girlhood Days, 21, 22.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., 23.
               
                    
                    
                  SOME GIRLS ENJOYED HELPING THEIR FATHERS
                  
               
                    
                  CLUBS FOSTERED SISTERHOOD AMONG HOOSIER WOMEN
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Extension Homemakers Association Collection.
               
                     keep their children out of school to help with harvests in the
                    fall or with heavy chores within the home. School was out early in the spring, "because
                    kids had to work on the farm." As "soon as they could plow," remembered a 
                        Johnson County
                     homemaker, "they had to be at home." "After I got big enough
                    to use the washboard," another recalled, "I lots of time stayed home on wash day,
                    because with that big a family, there was lots of washing." During the months of December,
                    January, and February, boys came back to school from the farm, "So during those months
                    we'd have quite a little rowdiness in school much of the time." One woman whose
                    parents hired people rather than keeping their children out of school recalled that her family was
                    the exception: "We didn't hardly ever have to stay home to work. A lot of children
                    did have to, but Dad and Mom never were like that."54 Although most
                    school memories focused on one-room schoolhouses, many women explained how few children attended
                    school beyond their graduation from eighth grade: "A lot of students didn't go to
                    high school in those days. Not because they couldn't pass the test, but because there were
                    no school buses and if they lived in the country they had no access to high school
                    facilities." Transportation difficulties alone did not account for the termination of
                    schooling: "What was the use of going to school?" a 
                        Pulaski County
                     woman asked, "They were just going to get married anyway."55
            
            "Growing up Healthy" is an ironic title for a chapter that offers a litany of the
                    diseases contracted by interviewees or by family members. Typhoid, diptheria, smallpox,
                    tuberculosis, rheumatic fever, diarrhea, whooping cough, influenza, and pneumonia, as well as
                    serious farm accidents, punctuate homemakers' accounts. Rural Indiana was not exceptional
                    in this regard, however; for despite considerable progress made in the treatment of several diseases
                    between 1890 and 1920, by the 1930s, "On farms across the land, the birthrate was still
                    high, the average length of life still low, [and] the `old-fashioned' diseases still
                    appallingly prevalent."56 Hoosier women recalled a variety of home
                    remedies, and from the comments about some of the doctors, patients probably had as much chance of
                    recovery with a home remedy as with a doctor. One Lawrence County mother correctly diagnosed her
                    daughter as a victim of "infantile paralysis, because there had been some cases 
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 73–74. The first Indiana "compulsory
                            education" law was passed in 1897, but according to the Lynds, the law only
                            required twelve weeks of consecutive attendance per year from ages eight to fourteen.
                            "Until 1924 the upper age limit for required school attendance was
                            fourteen." They also noted that high school attendance in the state increased
                            dramatically from 1920 to 1924. Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                : A Study in Contemporary American Culture (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 183–84.
                  
                     55
                            Girlhoods Days, 107, 108.
                  
                     56 Cowan, More Work for Mother, 183–84,
                            quotation p. 186.
               
                     around," but the doctor "said he knew it was
                    just worms, and he doctored her for worms." Questions of competence aside, without
                    antibiotics and with inoculations for only a few diseases, country doctors in many cases could do
                    little for their patients. Moreover, while many rural families delayed contacting doctors, some
                    explained that they were "often scarce and you just couldn't get one."57 Travel for rural families remained extremely difficult, and many perceived
                    hospitals as distant places where one went to die. It is not surprising that home remedies,
                    relatives, and neighbors were anchors in times of sickness. "Whenever any of the neighbor
                    men would get sick, the neighbors would all pitch in," one woman said.
                    "They'd go and help put out the crops, or help to gather them in, or whatever
                    needed doing. If the women would get down sick, we'd go in and take them things and help
                    out every which way we could."58 Serious illness drew the neighbors
                    together; "When somebody was sick, we had no hospital here … the men always came
                    and sat up at night."59
            
            
               Going to Club will probably appeal to fewer general readers than the other volumes,
                    but those interested in twentieth-century and women's history will find the data on
                    homemaker clubs enlightening in connection with the impact of the culture of professionalism; the
                    influence of Progressive faith in science, efficiency, and expertise; and the significance of
                    women's associational activities. Glenna Matthews maintains in her insightful new study
                        "Just a Housewife" that by 1900 the first professional home
                    economists sought "to distance themselves from that lowly amateur, the housewife,"
                    and to set standards by which "actual practice would be measured." She concludes
                    that the promotion of standards meant that women had to be taught "not to trust their own
                    tastes" but instead to rely on experts and to "despise tradition and …
                    advice of older women." The only way to escape tradition and effect change was
                    "through the instrumentality of the outside expert."60 Home
                    economics, which by 1915 was thriving, was also imbued with such Progressive concerns as raising
                    living standards, improving sanitary conditions, disseminating information on nutrition, 
                  
                     57
                            Girlhood Days, 117, 128.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., 158.
                  
                            59
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     60 Glenna Matthews, "Just a Housewife":
                                The Rise and Fall of Domesticity in America (
                                New York
                            , 1987), 150–51. Matthews distinguishes between Catharine Beecher,
                            author of A Treatise on Domestic Economy (1841, 
                                New York
                            , 1970), and professionals at the end of century. Excluded from careers in
                            science, these women copied male professions and, unlike Beecher, who extolled the virtues
                            of homemakers, denigrated the competence of women as homemakers. "Themselves women
                            who were having to contend with invidious stereotypes of female nature and female abilities
                            in the academy and workplace, many of the pioneer home economists internalized the
                            stereotypes and judged housewives accordingly." Matthews, "Just a Housewife," 171.
               
                     and increasing labor efficiency. Under provisions of the 1914
                    Lever Act, land grant colleges established networks of cooperative extension courses for women, and
                    in 1923 the Bureau of Home Economics was created in the Department of Agriculture.61
            
            The underlying assumptions of home economics as a discipline are apparent in the formation of the
                    Indiana home economics clubs. These clubs were organized for the purpose of enlightening rural
                    homemakers through lessons and demonstrations. Purdue University home economists, revered by the
                    homemakers, traveled around the state giving presentations in schools or courthouses to groups
                    composed of representatives from the local "home ec" clubs. The local women would
                    then take the practical advice back to women in their own communities. As club membership grew,
                    women lobbied their county officials to contribute funds for a full-time home economics agent in
                    each county.62
            
            There is no doubt that lessons "to improve, enlarge and endear the greatest institution in
                    the world—THE HOME" helped alter rural homemaking methods in early
                    twentieth-century Indiana.63 Hoosier women were encouraged to rely on the
                    experts and to give up their old ways in order to become better homemakers. In the beginning, a
                    homemaker recalled, most club members were "farm women and they had no education in
                    developing their sewing and cooking, and I think it was the most wonderful thing that ever
                        happened."64 Since mothers of these farm women had presumably run
                    homes without "education" in homemaking, comments like this indicate that many
                    accepted the assumption that they needed special training.
            Judging from the number of references, some of the most valued lessons were those on cold packing and
                    canning food, but these lessons reveal another dimension of home economics: if the home-maker
                    herself were to use the new methods, she would need a cold packer and a pressure cooker of her own.
                    As previously noted, clubs offered lessons promoting electricity and the benefits of particular
                    electrical products. There were also lessons on the benefits of packaged foods and mixes. Although
                    the published testimony indicates that women were generally receptive to new methods and products,
                    there were probably some who were not convinced. 
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., 153–62.
                  
                     62 One former agent recalled that visiting every club four or five
                            times a year mushroomed into an impossible task when the number of clubs increased from five
                            to twenty-eight. Ironically, extension agents were forced to remain unmarried. Since
                            homemaking was presented as a full-time profession, "when you got married, you quit
                            work. You weren't expected to work in Extension after you were married."
                            This policy changed only after World War II when single women were difficult to recruit and
                            when more married women were working. Going to Club. 61.
                  
                     63
                            Ibid., 8.
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., 80.
               
                    
                    
                  HOME ECONOMICS CANNING WORKSHOP, FRANKFORT, INDIANA
                  
                  A DEMONSTRATION OF THE LATEST CANNING TECHNIQUES FOR VARIOUS FOODS, INCLUDING PINEAPPLE
                  
                  Courtesy J. C. Allen Photo File, Purdue University Agricultural Communication Service, West 
                                Lafayette
                            .
               
                     "When packaged mixes were just coming out, we were
                    afraid of them. I remember we had a member who took that lesson. She was not very happy with the
                    mixes, and she said, `Well, this is what they're showing, and I'm supposed to show
                    it to you, but I don't really think it's a good way to do. I think you should make
                    them from scratch.'"65 The pattern of teaching women the
                    advantages of new technologies for simplifying homemaking tasks and thus both implicitly and
                    explicitly promoting consumerism has continued for over seven decades. Rather than the advantages of
                    pressure cookers and electric irons, for example, contemporary lessons have praised the benefits of
                    microwaves and home computers.
            A review of the lessons over this period offers social historians abundant evidence of the impact of
                    change on rural and smalltown women in Indiana. Initially concentrated primarily on food or clothing
                    demonstrations and geared to women who did not work outside the home, lessons in more recent years
                    have focused on a wider range of topics, "We have human development … and we
                    have lessons on aging and wills, banking, women living alone, insurance, social
                    security—all things we never used to get into in Extension Lessons." Because
                    planning was originally premised on the assumption that homemakers had only one job, "more
                    lessons for career women that go hand in hand with homemaking" have been offered since
                    World War II. "Lots of us are working outside the home," a woman in her thirties
                    explained, "and budgeting our time has been of prime importance in our lesson
                        discussions."66 The changing nature of the lessons indicates the
                    pragmatic orientation of extension and its willingness over the decades to deal with contemporary
                    concerns of rural women.
            Quite apart from whatever practical benefits women derived from the lessons, the clubs were
                    enormously important in strengthening neighborliness. Historians have examined nineteenth- and early
                    twentieth-century associational activities for urban women and have written extensively about
                    sisterhood, bonds between women, and women's networks in urban areas,67 but historical
                    neglect 
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., 89.
                  
                     66
                            Ibid., 115, 116, 118.
                  
                     67 Among the many studies that discuss women's associational
                            activites and networks, some of the most important are Nancy F. Cott, The Bonds
                                of Womanhood: "Woman's Sphere" in New 
                                    England
                                , 1780–1835 (
                                New Haven
                            , 1977); Nancy A. Hewitt, Women's Activism and Social
                                Change: 
                           Rochester, New York
                        , 1822–1872 (
                                Ithaca
                            , N.Y., 1984); Mary P. Ryan, Cradle of the Middle Class: The Family
                                in 
                           Oneida County, New York
                        , 1790–1865 (
                                New York
                            , 1981); Barbara Leslie Epstein, The Politics of Domesticity:
                                Women, Evangelism, and Temperance in Nineteenth-Century America (
                                Middletown
                            , Conn., 1981); Estelle Freedman, "Separatism as Strategy: Female
                            Institution Building and American Feminism, 1870—1930," Feminist Studies, V (Fall, 1979), 512–29; Sharon Hartman Strom,
                            "Leadership and Tactics in the American Woman Suffrage Movement: A New Perspective
                            from 
                                Massachusetts
                            ," Journal of American History, LXII (September,
                            1975), 296–315; Kathryn Kish Sklar, "Hull House in the 1890s: A
                            Community of Women Reformers," Signs, X (Summer, 1985),
                            658–77; and Nancy F. Cott, The Grounding of Modern Feminism (
                                New Haven
                            , 1987).
               
                     of rural women's associations partially reflects the
                    few organizations other than churches for rural women to join. The oral testimony in Going to Club provides historically revealing and poignant insights into the personal
                    meaning of this associational activity. In the simple words of one elderly homemaker from 
                        Montgomery County
                    , 
                        Farm women had never had an opportunity to join clubs. And, for many of the women, the social
                            part of it was worth more to them than anything else. It was worthwhile for that, just to
                            get women out and let them know that there was somebody else that had the same problems they
                                did.68
                  
                     Many women undoubtedly went to club just because they "wanted someplace to
                    go"; others joined because "everybody else in the community belonged and it was
                    the best of women … ." With the dearth of other activities, "our club
                    meetings and our church were the highlights of our lives, and everybody went." For new
                    residents joining a club was "a good way to get to know people around the
                    neighborhood." Without it, one woman "wouldn't have known
                    anybody." The women were "so friendly. You just felt that you was in a jolly
                    bunch… . I felt right at home with all of them."69
            
            For the first decades, clubs met during the day, often with children in attendance, but after World
                    War II some clubs began meeting at night, reflecting employed women's new jobs. Not only
                    were more women working outside the home, but there was also "electricity in more than just
                    a few houses"; and with improved transportation, "we were becoming more mobile.
                    Women weren't afraid to go out at night alone."70
            
            Whether attending day or evening meetings, members emphasized to families their determination not to
                    miss these occasions. Club night became known in many families as "Mom's night
                    out!! And you didn't do something that interfered with it. They took care of themselves at
                    home. That was always my time and my family respected it. That was the one thing
                    that Mom did." Family members did not object when women went out because, "To tell
                    the truth, it wouldn't of done them much good." In order to take time out for the
                    day meetings, women often worked harder in the evening to make up for the lost time. Since many
                    children attended the day meetings, they grew up together and also formed special friendships
                    through the clubs: "There was about as many children as there were women and that was a big
                    deal to get to go play with all the children on club day," a woman recalled. With or
                    without children present, women were faithful members because the "fellowship 
                  
                     68
                            Going to Club, 18.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., 18, 21, 25, 19.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., 39.
               
                     meant so much" and they "were very special to
                    each other."71
            
            In addition to sisterhood, club activities offered women an opportunity to develop leadership skills
                    and increase self-confidence. The responsibility of bringing a lesson back to the club forced some
                    women to speak in front of others for the first time. "I remember the first lesson I
                    took," a 
                        Whitley County
                     woman stated. "I came home with a headache and worried about how I was going
                    to give that lesson." Overcoming her "shaking and quivering" when she
                    made a speech, one member was never again "bothered in front of people."
                    "By receiving lessons from Purdue specialists," a former state president
                    explained, "it helped me to have confidence in myself and to branch out into other
                    community organizations."72
            
            Special club activities provided some women with extraordinary experiences; for example, several
                    clubs and state groups took field trips to 
                  Indianapolis, Chicago
               , and other
                    cities to tour museums or attend artistic performances. But travels by the Indiana Homemakers Chorus
                    in the 1930s were most notable. Club choruses throughout the state joined to form the Indiana
                    Homemakers Chorus, or "Singing Hoosiers," with approximately two thousand voices
                    and performed at the Hollywood Bowl, the International Exposition in 
                  Toronto, Canada
               , and
                    Constitution Hall in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. The latter performance led to an invitation by Eleanor Roosevelt to sing for F#2
                    D. Roosevelt at a White House lawn party. After entertaining him with "`Home on the
                    Range,' because it was such a favorite of his," the women were greeted by the
                    first lady.
            
                    Mrs. Roosevelt was such a gracious lady. She went all over that big lawn and she shook hands for
                        a long, long time with anybody that wanted to shake hands with her. That was such a gracious
                        thing for her to do, because I know that hand must have been awfully tired. But the women were
                        so thrilled.73
               
                
            Most members of the homemaker clubs, of course, never performed for a president or met a first lady,
                    but they all learned new homemaking techniques and traveled the distance from the certain isolation
                    within the home to the possibility of sisterhood within the club. Perhaps some lessons that
                    criticized traditional methods of homemaking may have made some women doubt themselves, but Memories of Hoosier Homemakers offers abundant evidence that the overall impact of
                    the "home ec" clubs for rural women in Indiana 
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., 50, 49, 45, 29.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., 80, 64.
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., 35–36. Given the Roosevelts' concern with
                            Indiana in the 1936 election, the invitation to the "Singing Hoosiers" was
                            probably a clever political move. The 1936 campaign is discussed in James Philip Fadely,
                            "Editors, Whistle Stops, and Elephants: The Presidential Campaign of 1936 in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXV (June, 1989),
                            101–37.
               
                     has been overwhelmingly positive: "After all these
                    years, the girls are almost like sisters. We've grown up together and there is always a
                    helping hand if you need it."74
            
            If the published volumes provide a fair sample of the riches contained within the hundreds of
                    interviews, researchers in several historical specialties—women's history,
                    Indiana history, rural history, twentieth-century social history—are certain to benefit
                    when the transcripts are deposited in the Indiana Historical Society at the end of the project.
                    Reading the first five published volumes also increases anticipation for what Arnold has termed the
                    "culminating volume on the women themselves."75
            
            
               
                  74
                        Going to Club, 166.
               
                  75
                        Ibid., 1.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               French Folklife in 
                            Old Vincennes
                        . By Ronald L. Baker. (
                        Terre Haute
                    : Indiana Council of Teachers of English and the Hoosier Folklore Society, 1989. Pp. 62.
                    Notes, bibliography. Paperbound, $6.00.)
            This little book provides a fresh and revealing look at the forgotten culture which once flourished
                    at French-speaking 
                        Vincennes
                    , founded in the 1730s by Fran$cCois-Marie Bissot de 
                        Vincennes
                     as part of the French Louisiana Colony. By the 1930s, few living reminders of the
                    city's French past remained, and only a few septuagenarians and octogenarians of French
                    descent remembered old French songs and stories.
            About fifteen years ago, folklorist Ronald L. Baker found an unpublished Works Progress
                    Administration (WPA) Federal Writers' Project manuscript from 1937 entitled "The
                    Creole (French) Pioneers at Old Post 
                        Vincennes
                    ." While much of the manuscript dealt with the history of 
                        Vincennes
                    , three chapters detailed French customs, songs, and stories as written down by WPA
                    fieldworkers who interviewed the elderly descendants of early French settlers.
            
               French Folklife in 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                is Baker's reworking and reorganization of those portions of the WPA
                    manuscript dealing with traditional material culture and work parties, customs and entertainments,
                    and folktales (the titles of his second, third, and fourth chapters). In addition, the book contains
                    an informative preface and a useful and extensive bibliography listing primarily literature and
                    sources (mostly in English) relating to French-language folklore and folk songs. Baker's
                    first chapter is a brief, well-written history of French 
                        Vincennes
                     drawn from other sources, some of which are dated, leading the author to repeat several
                    minor errors (Edm$eA-Gatien Salmon, for instance, was commissary, not governor, of
                            
                  Louisiana; Vincennes
                was killed by the Chickasaws near present-day Tupelo, 
                        Mississippi
                    , not 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               ).
            The second chapter is an accurate, colorful, and valuable account of the material culture of the
                    French settlement. It constitutes, with the last two chapters, the heart of the book and gives the
                    reader French customs, folk-song lyrics (in English only), and tales of old 
                        Vincennes
                     as related by the elderly French descendants in 1937. The author has edited these into
                    more readable English than that of the original manuscript, but the occasional French words in the
                    book would also have benefited from editing to eliminate 
                    spelling and grammatical errors. Baker also provides useful interpretive material both in the text
                    and in his notes for each chapter.
            This book will be of interest to the lay reader and can serve as an enjoyable and worthwhile
                    component of school units on folklore, Indiana and American history, and reading. The folktales on
                    the loup-garou (werewolf) and other supernatural phenomena, as well as courting
                    customs and games, are all bound to be of interest. The author's notes and references will
                    be very helpful to those who wish to pursue the material in greater depth. French
                        Folklife in 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                provides an informative and lively view of an important but elusive part of
                    Indiana's cultural history.
            JOSEPH L. PEYSER is professor of French and of education
                    at Indiana University at 
                        South Bend
                    . His book, Letters from New 
                            France
                        : Selected Translations and Readings on the Pays d'en haut 1686–1783, is forthcoming.
         
         
            
               A Surgeon's Diary: 15th Evacuation Hospital; Experiences in World War II,
                        North Africa-Sicily-
                            Italy
                        . By Frank W. Peyton. (
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Ind.: Frank Wood Peyton, 1987. Pp. 323. Notes, illustrations, map. $19.95.)
            Reading the pages of another person's diary can be as entertaining and informative as
                    listening in on a party-line phone, and if the diary's pages encompass a major world event
                    the reader's experience adds up to time and money well spent. Frank W. Peyton's
                        A Surgeon's Diary provides such an experience.
            The major world event covered is the Italian campaign of World War II and its North African and
                    Sicilian preludes. The first Allied offensive in North Africa commenced in November, 1942, with the
                    landing of 
                        United States
                     and British troops in 
                        Morocco
                     and 
                        Algeria
                    . It was in Oran, 
                        Algeria
                    , in February, 1943, that Dr. Peyton's overseas experience with the 15th
                    Evacuation Hospital began. The hospital moved forward with the advancing army into Tunis, across the
                    Mediterranean Sea to Sicily, and then into 
                        Italy
                    , starting with the bloody experience of Anzio. The diary ends in Milan in September,
                    1945, following the 
                        German
                     surrender.
            The unique perspective of A Surgeon's Diary is that the war is not seen with
                        the usual dropping of bombs, the destruction of ships, and the shooting down of airplanes, nor
                        from the front line with advancing tanks and infantry. Rather one sees the very personal point
                        of view of a military hospital's admitting and treating physician, whose agonizing
                        tasks were to receive the living victims of war's instruments of carnage, to make
                        decisions, and to do whatever possible to provide relief and save life. The hours were long, but
                        the work was as gratifying as it was agonizing.
            
            At first glance Frank W. Peyton may appear to be an inappropriate person for his wartime task. In
                    civilian life he was an Ob-Gyn 
                    
                  SURGERY TENT PREPARED FOR AFRICAN CAMPAIGN CASUALTIES. SBEITLA, TUNISIA, APRIL, 1943
               
                    
                  MEDICAL WARD, FLORENCE, ITALY, DECEMBER, 1944
                  Courtesy Frank W. Peyton.
               
                     specialist—he delivered babies. His fundamental
                    medical training, however, was that of a physician and surgeon, which was the way he spent his three
                    years in the army. His intensive basic training, before shipping out with the 15th Evacuation
                    Hospital, involved treatment of shock and recognition of irretrievable shock.
            One of the interesting aspects of the narrative is the remarkable effect produced by penicillin when
                    it first became available during the Italian campaign. But A Surgeon's
                    Diary reveals that daily activity was not all war. Peyton tells the fun side of life under
                    adverse circumstances, and, overall, leaves the reader with a feeling of appreciation for being a
                    civilian living in a time of peace.
            CHARLES A. BONSETT, who served in the Pacific theater in
                    World War II, is an 
                        Indianapolis
                     physician.
         
         
            
               The 
                            German
                        -American Contribution to 
                            Richmond
                         and 
                            Richmond
                        's Development: 1833–1933. By Donald M. Royer. (
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Richmond
                    : Indiana 
                        German
                     Heritage Society and 
                        Richmond
                        German
                     Heritage Society, [1989]. Pp. vi, 141. Illustrations, tables, figures, map, notes,
                    references, index. Paperbound, $7.00.)
            This short book was "made possible by the valuable information provided by the nearly fifty
                    persons of 
                        German
                     descent whose names appear in the appendix. Many of them are presently active in the 
                        Richmond
                        German
                     Heritage Society" (p. i). According to the president of the Indiana 
                        German
                     Heritage Society, which assisted in publishing The 
                            German
                        -American Contribution, this is an examination of "forgotten"
                    Hoosiers, as the society's aim is "preservation of the state's 
                        German
                     heritage" (p. iii). The study was intended to be "a model for other
                    communities" (p. iv).
            Donald M. Royer describes his project as a "socio-historical study … to explain
                    the origins of 
                        Richmond
                    's 19th and 20th century 
                        German
                     settlers" (p. 1). He seeks to answer where in 
                        Germany
                     they lived, what the conditions were that led to their emigration, why they chose the 
                        Richmond
                     area, and what their role in 
                        Richmond
                    's development since the early decades of the nineteenth century has been.
            Despite these claims and the amount of research which led to the publication, however, the work is
                    unsatisfying. One is uncertain, for instance, why the years 1833–1933 were selected.
                    Granted, the first 
                        German
                     family arrived in 1833, but the number of Germans remained small until the mid-1840s,
                    when the first two churches were established. The ending date is also unexplained. The author,
                    moreover, provides neither systematic nor thorough examination of the questions he raises. Instead,
                    he spends much of the text discussing the reasons for persons leaving  the Osnabruck region and settling in 
                        Richmond
                    —0104 in the 1850s—and offers some useful material in the process.
                    He argues that most 
                        Richmond
                     Germans came from the area but does not explain why Germans from other regions
                    apparently avoided 
                        Richmond
                    . Only about one-fifth of the text deals with the period after 1900. Acculturation and
                    assimilation, therefore, are neither clearly defined nor adequately developed. At one point the
                    author asserts that World War I was the most important cause of what he terms assimilation; but the
                    point is undeveloped, and evidence on the next page (p. 94) suggests that other forces were at least
                    as important and had been at work long before 1917.
            There are also problems with sources and organization. Documentation is largely provided through
                    local genealogical and antiquarian sources and excludes such vital materials as the manuscript
                    census and recent historical studies of immigration and ethnicity in American history. While
                    sections dealing with persons leaving Osnabruck is fairly well organized, systematic
                    analysis—especially in the latter portions of the text—is lacking. There is no
                    conclusion, and the appendix, which provides details of some 
                        Richmond
                     families, is unrelated to the text.
            Perhaps the chief limitation here is the quality of historical analysis. One is certainly aware of
                    the need to appreciate the contributions of immigrant groups to American society, but history is
                    more than this. One needs to know whether the experiences of Germans in 
                        Richmond
                     were unique, for instance, and how other ethnic groups fared in the Rose City. One
                    would also appreciate an examination of such issues as prohibition, sabbath laws, and parochial
                    schools. For the most part, this is a genealogical and antiquarian effort. It needs to be more.
            DARREL E. BIGHAM, professor of history, University of
                    Southern Indiana, 
                        Evansville
                    , is director of the Historic Southern Indiana Project. His most recent publications
                    include We Ask Only a Fair Trial: A History of the Black Community of 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana and An 
                            Evansville
                         Album: Perspectives on a River City, 1812–1988 (1988). One of his
                    current research projects is the impact of Germans on the development of Indiana's Ohio
                    Valley.
         
         
            
               The Northwest Ordinance: Essays on Its Formulation, Provisions, and Legacy.
                    Edited by Frederick D. Williams. (East Lansing: Michigan State University Press, 1989. Pp. xiv, 142.
                    Notes, appendix, select bibliography, index. $15.00.)
            For historians of the Old Northwest, 1987 was a busy year. Besides planning celebrations for the two
                    hundredth anniversary of the Constitution, these scholars observed what Philip R. Shriver has called
                    "the other bicentennial"—that of the Northwest Ordinance. On campuses
                    large and small students of that historic document  gathered to
                    reassess its provisions and the governmental structure it created for the frontier north of the
                        Ohio River.
            
               The Northwest Ordinance, edited by Frederick D. Williams, contains the papers
                    delivered at one such conference held at Michigan State University. Focusing on issues involved in
                    "securing and peopling the Old Northwest" (p. x) and on the development of
                    education in the region, the essays reflect the common theme of the ordinance's ambiguous
                    nature.
            Two papers directly treat this topic. In his keynote address, Jack N. Rakove labels the Ordinance an
                    "ambiguous achievement," for despite the stated intent of the third Article to
                    treat the Indians with "utmost good faith," the document was in fact "a
                    legal facade for the expropriation of Indian land" (p. 2). To fathom this and other
                    "inherent ambiguities of the Ordinance" requires, in Rakove's view,
                    finding a balance between its lofty principles and the "mundane motives" of its
                    framers (p. 3.) It also means recognizing that the flood of western settlement before the Revolution
                    prompted the political issues that demanded Congress's attention in 1787, that the
                    Constitution actually saved the Ordinance from being "little more than a dead
                    letter" (p. 13), and that the noble aspirations expressed in Article III were in fact
                    mocked by the tragic realities confronted by the Amerindians. Here the Ordinance's
                    ambiguity bore bitter fruit, for "one people's liberty was another
                    people's loss" (p. 18).
            Paul Finkelman examines the question of ambiguity in analyzing the relationship between slavery and
                    the Ordinance. In a superbly documented effort, Finkelman demonstrates that although Article VI set
                    the stage for eventual elimination of slavery, it was no emancipation proclamation; instead, he says
                    it was a hastily drafted eleventh-hour addition and an "example of how not
                    to draft a statute" (p. 76). It symbolized the ambiguous legacy of the Ordinance by
                    declaring an end to slavery while at the same time protecting the property rights of slaveowners.
            The remaining essays consider three diverse elements of the Ordinance's formulation and
                    legacy. Gordon T. Stewart cogently argues that the Northwest Ordinance should be seen in the context
                    of the balance of power between British, Spanish, and 
                        United States
                     interests. Given this struggle, America's "optimistic"
                    leaders, Stewart states, believed that the Ordinance would assist in procuring settler allegiance to
                    the 
                        United States
                    . In a probing analysis of Protestant missionary efforts in the Old Northwest, Ruth H.
                    Bloch insightfully treats the role of New 
                        England
                     Congregationalists in countering a "creeping infidelity," prompted,
                    in their eyes, by the French Revolution. Finally, Jurgen Herbst tells the story of public higher
                    education. He concentrates on the early fragility of the universities, their struggle "to
                    avoid accusations of sectarianism and godlessness" (p. 104), and their reactions to demands
                         for "practical" education. While
                    providing helpful historical data, Herbst fails to explain adequately the connections between the
                    provisions and legacy of the Ordinance and these educational developments.
            There is little that is genuinely new in this book, but its contributors furnish some perceptive
                    material. Finkelman's explanation of why southern congressmen supported Article VI is, for
                    example, highly penetrating, as is Stewart's comparison of the strategic importance of the
                    Old Northwest with that of the present-day Middle East. Likewise, Bloch's discussion of
                    Congregationalist desires to spread "the true faith of the growing republic" (p.
                    42) suggests a fresh area of investigation for students of civil religion. In short, this slim
                    volume demonstrates the historiographic value of academe's celebration of "the
                    other bicentennial."
            LLOYD A. HUNTER is professor of history, 
                        Franklin
                     College, 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana. In 1987 he directed the "Pathways to the Old Northwest"
                    conference at 
                        Franklin
                     College and contributed to The Northwest Ordinance: A Bicentennial
                        Handbook (1987) and to Anne T. Fraker, ed., Religion and American Life:
                        Resources (1989).
         
         
            
               The American Backwoods Frontier: An Ethnic and Ecological Interpretation. By
                    Terry G. Jordan and Matti Kaups. (
                        Baltimore
                    : John Hopkins University Press, 1989. Pp. xiii, 340. Illustrations, maps, figures,
                    tables, notes, bibliography, index. $36.00.)
            
               The American Backwoods Frontier is an exploration in historical geography that
                    seeks to identify the ethnic and ecological origins of America's frontier woodland culture.
                    Terry G. Jordan and Matti Kaups rely on diverse documentary sources as well as observations of
                    remnant artifacts at original locations and in open air museums. Prior to beginning this book, 
                        Jordan
                     believed that the structural skills and architectural concepts necessary for a rapidly
                    advancing woodland frontier were to be found in the 
                        German
                     lands of Central Europe. An absence of supportive field evidence in this area and
                    subsequently encouraging observations in Scandinavia led to him to adopt a new hypothesis. He became
                    convinced that log architecture and fencing, as well as other practices associated with
                    America's woodland frontier, originated among Finnish settlers who migrated from interior 
                        Sweden
                     to the Delaware Valley. 
                        Jordan
                     then invited Kaups, an expert on Finnish culture, to become a research collaborator.
            The resulting book begins with a brief overview of the frontier way of life and a reminder that
                    American woodland settlement advanced most rapidly beyond the Midland or Delaware Valley culture
                    hearth. The second chapter presents the authors' primary hypothesis: "the eastern,
                    interior Finns of Karelian and Savoan background, bearers of a well-developed, beautifully
                    preadapted forest colonization cultural complex, were the most significant 
                    
                  SAVO-KARELIAN LOG ARCHITECTURE
                  
               
                    
                  STORY-AND-A-HALF HOUSE FROM NORWEGIAN HEDMARK, A FEW MILES FROM THE SWEDISH BORDER
                  
               
                    
                  LOG DOUBLE HOUSE FROM TAIPALSAARI IN THE LAKE DISTRICT OF SOUTHERN SAVO, FINLAND
                  
                  Courtesy Terry G. Jordan.
               
                     shapers of the American backwoods way of life" (p.
                    36). The substantive chapters that follow offer various kinds of evidence to cooraborate this
                    thesis: reconstructing the Savo-Karelian frontier way of life and the rapidity with which it
                    advanced through previously unsettled forests in 
                  Finland,
                            Sweden
               , and the Delaware Valley; establishing the
                    existence of nearly identical cultural traits among the first European settlers of
                    America's interior woodlands—the same farming, construction, folk architecture,
                    and hunting and gathering practices; and presenting surname and place name occurrences that support
                    early migration from the Delaware Valley into the midland interior.
            
               
                        Jordan
                    's and Kaups's hypothesis that the colonial Savo-Karelian Finns of New 
                        Sweden
                     are the primary contributors to America's woodland frontier culture is more
                    than plausible. Excellent graphics depicting the recurring presence of the same material culture
                    traits in northern Europe and interior America effectively reinforce their argument. The
                    Savo-Karelian immigrants are convincingly presented as an adaptable group of settlers with a
                    venerable European woodland frontier heritage. Their early arrival in the Delaware Valley and rapid
                    dispersal to isolated sites in the forest contrasted with the more gregarious, slowly advancing,
                    conservative cultivators who first came to New 
                  England,
                            Pennsylvania
               , and the Chesapeake from
                    European lands where the forests were cleared long before.
            The evidence presented by 
                        Jordan
                     and Kaups, however, is not sufficient to convince every reader of the validity of their
                    thesis. They admit that information describing frontier culture in and near the Delaware Valley is
                    sketchy. They also acknowledge a dearth of concrete evidence that later arriving and considerably
                    more numerous Scots-Irish frontiersmen willingly adopted a way of life followed by a few scattered
                    Finns. Nor can essential prior borrowing of Delaware Indian traits by the Savo-Karelians be fully
                    documented. Even with these shortcomings, this provocative and clearly written monograph will hold
                    the attention of any reader who has an interest in American frontier history.
            ROBERT W. BASTIAN is professor of geography at Indiana
                    State University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and a coauthor of Common Houses in America's Small Towns: The
                        Atlantic Seaboard to the Mississippi Valley (1989).
         
         
            
               Andrew Johnson: A Biography. By Hans L. Trefousse. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Company, 1989. Pp. 463. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $25.00.)
            Despite the flood of Reconstruction studies appearing over the past several decades and a substantial
                    shelf of works already devoted to the enigmatic Andrew Johnson, historians have long needed a
                    modern, balanced biography of the seventeenth president.  In
                    this well-researched, carefully argued, and solidly written book, Hans L. Trefousse fills this
                    important gap in the historical literature of the middle period.
            Better than any previous biographer, Trefousse has separated fact from fiction in reexamining
                    Johnson's hardscrabble boyhood in 
                        North Carolina
                    , his migration to 
                        Tennessee
                    , his success as a tailor, and his meteoric rise to prominence in local, state, and
                    national politics. A powerful orator with a consistently populist appeal, Johnson was equally
                    skillful at playing the dangerous game of divide-and-conquer to advance his career. Ostensibly a
                    Democrat, he nevertheless often quarreled with the leaders of the Tennessee Democracy and worked
                    with dissident Whigs when the need arose. By 1860, a principled commitment to Unionism, combined
                    with intense ambition, drove him strongly to oppose secession, a decision that won Johnson both
                    acclaim and derision throughout the country.
            If success in politics often depends on timing, Johnson had chosen the right moment to command the
                    national stage. Admiring his courage and natural political abilities, Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     rewarded Johnson accordingly: first with control of federal patronage in 
                        Tennessee
                    , next with appointment as military governor of that state, and finally with the Union
                    party's 1864 vice-presidential nomination.
            Although Trefousse has written several books on the Radical Republicans and does not sympathize with
                    Johnson's views on reconstruction and race, he presents a remarkably evenhanded account of
                    the presidential years by paying careful attention to the intricacies of chronology, personality,
                    and factional infighting. Johnson could never transcend the limits of his Jacksonian ideology, but
                    Trefousse refuses to turn this well-known stubborness into a caricature. Johnson's sincere
                    and sometimes magisterial commitment to the Union and the Constitution receives full attention; and
                    the rich analysis of the Republican opposition does not gloss over weaknesses of either character or
                    judgment. Even though Trefousse avoids becoming embroiled in the persistent controversies of
                    Reconstruction historiography, he implicitly departs from the neo-revisionist interpretations of
                    Harold Hyman and Michael Les Benedict by approaching the impeachment question in a manner more akin
                    to the mildly revisionist views of Eric McKitrick.
            Andrew Johnson, of course, poses formidable difficulties for a conscientious biographer. Trefousse
                    analyzes Johnson's family life and character, but available evidence simply will not
                    support a complete and compelling portrait of this obviously driven but curiously elusive
                    personality. Thus despite Trefousse's thoughtful attempt to explain why Johnson waited so
                    long before trying to remove Secretary of War Edwin Stanton, this strange episode may forever remain
                    inexplicable. The only real weakness in the book is  the
                    author's rigid adherence to chronology, which sometimes leads to the sudden introduction of
                    topics that are just as quickly dropped and repetitiously picked up later. This makes for some
                    awkward transitions and is especially annoying in the discussion of Johnson's advocacy of
                    homestead legislation. All in all, however, Trefousse has written a superior
                    biography—one that should remain the standard work on Andrew Johnson for some time.
            GEORGE C. RABLE, professor of history and director of
                    American studies, Anderson University, Anderson, Indiana, is the author of Civil Wars:
                        Women and the Crisis of Southern Nationalism (1989). He is currently working on a book
                    dealing with the political culture of the Confederacy.
         
         
            
               The Frontier, the Union, and Stephen A. Douglas. By Robert W. Johannsen. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1989. Pp. xiii, 311. Notes, index. $34.95.)
            This volume contains nothing new concerning the frontier, the union, or Stephen A. Douglas. It is a
                    collection of earlier works by Robert W. Johannsen, dating from the 1950s through a lecture
                    delivered in 1986. Part I consists of four essays concerning the Pacific Northwest frontier from
                    1848 through the Civil War; Part II is comprised of six essays which present different aspects of
                    Douglas's career; Part III provides four essays on the vision of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    ; Part IV is a lone essay describing the "Young America" spirit of
                    mid-nineteenth-century America.
            Although thirteen of the fifteen essays were previously published, having them all together in one
                    volume provides a clear picture of the Douglas whom historians frequently ignore: the visionary who
                    believed that popular sovereignty was a constitutional right of territorial residents, not merely a
                    pragmatic way to avoid the question of slavery. As late as 1860 he claimed that "popular
                    sovereignty was the single, crucial issue of the campaign" (p. 166). The eleventh essay,
                    "In Search of the Real 
                        Lincoln
                    , or 
                        Lincoln
                     at the Crossroads," shows 
                        Lincoln
                    's struggle to define "equality." The Douglas essays in Part
                    II indicate that Douglas had equal difficulty in finding a universally acceptable definition of
                    "popular sovereignty." In his preface, Johannsen suggests that although the
                    martyred 
                        Lincoln
                     has come to be revered "as a representative American … a better
                    case might be made for Douglas" (p. xvii). Both the content and the placement vis-$aG-vis
                    one another of these essays builds on that theme.
            The fourteenth essay, "Sandburg and 
                        Lincoln
                    : The 
                        Prairie
                     Years," besides presenting an interesting bibliographic review of Carl
                    Sandburg's works on 
                        Lincoln
                    , suggests that Sandburg brought to the American people a view of 
                        Lincoln
                    's life as "the life of the people" (p. 280). The following
                    essay, "America's Golden Midcentury," shows a nation that reflected not
                    only the 
                        Lincoln
                     portrayed  by Sandburg, but equally the Douglas
                    described in the essay, "Stephen A. Douglas and the American Mission."
            Some repetition of material is unavoidable. Generally this is not bothersome, but careful editing of
                    material that has been fully covered in earlier essays could lessen reading time. Reading any of
                    these essays, however, is time well spent. They clearly demonstrate that the popular view of the
                    principled 
                        Lincoln
                     contrasted to a pragmatic Douglas could easily be reversed. Douglas was as principled
                    in his dedication to popular sovereignty as a constitutional right of territorial residents as was 
                        Lincoln
                     to the idea of equality of opportunity. Conversely, 
                        Lincoln
                     acted as pragmatically in persuading Illinois Republicans not to support Douglas for
                    the Senate seat in 1858 as did Douglas in refusing to compromise on the 1860 Democratic campaign
                    platform.
            HELEN JEAN M. NUGENT is associate
                    professor of history and director of Canadian studies (a program she began in 1984) at 
                        Franklin
                     College. Currently she is researching the Canadian background of Indiana
                settlers.
         
         
            
               The Historian's 
                            Lincoln
                        : Pseudohistory, Psychohistory, and History. Edited by Gabor S. Boritt;
                    associate editor, N#2 O. Forness. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1988. Pp. xxviii, 423. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $24.95.)
            
               The Historian's 
                            Lincoln
                        : Rebuttals; What the University Press Would Not Print. Edited by Gabor S.
                    Boritt. (Gettyburg, Pa.: 
                        Gettysburg
                     College, 1988. Pp. 43. Illustrations, notes, index. Paperbound, $3.70.)
            These two volumes are the products of a conference of leading 
                        Lincoln
                     specialists held at 
                        Gettysburg
                     College in 1984 to commemorate the 175th birthday of the sixteenth president. Authors
                    of important recent books on 
                        Lincoln
                     presented summaries or extensions of their works and an equally prominent set of
                    critics offered their comments. The papers and comments have been published by the University of
                    Illinois Press while the replies of some authors to their critics are available in the pamphlet
                    published by 
                        Gettysburg
                     College.
            The results are the usual mixed bag of conference fare. The contributions run the gamut from P. M.
                    Zall's minor but diverting piece "Abe 
                        Lincoln
                     Laughing" to Dwight G. Anderson's absurd attempt to explain 
                        Lincoln
                    's presidency as an oedipal assault on the legacy of George 
                        Washington
                    , to LaWanda Cox's significant and persuasive defense of 
                        Lincoln
                    's dedication to emancipation and equality. Editor Gabor S. Boritt's
                    own contribution is a useful discussion of 
                        Lincoln
                    's Whiggish economic views, particularly his notion that true liberty implied
                    the "right to rise" (p. 92) in a growing market economy fostered by government
                    action. Equally noteworthy  thy are Charles B.
                    Strozier's and George B. Forgie's psychological interpretations of 
                        Lincoln
                    's personality and William Hanchett's painstaking and judicious
                    examination of the circumstances surrounding 
                        Lincoln
                    's murder.
            
               The Historian's 
                            Lincoln
                        
                undoubtedly fulfills its purpose as a compendium of current scholarship,
                    familiarizing the reader with a diverse field without forcing him or her to read the full body of
                    literature on which it is based. It fails, however, as a unified discussion of some central
                    questions concerning the railsplitter and his place in American history. The contributions are too
                    disparate, for example, to shed much light on the question posed by Boritt as to "whether 
                        Lincoln
                    's ultimate commitment was to union or to liberty" (p. xv). One would
                    suppose that 
                        Lincoln
                     thought the two inseparable, as his fellow Whig and rhetorical role model Daniel
                    Webster did, but even this supposition could not be tested in a forum where participants were asked
                    to discuss their own past work rather than a set of common questions. The same consideration may
                    also limit the book's usefulness to the general public. Though organizers hoped to make it
                    a vehicle for transmitting the best of recent scholarship to the large lay audience for Lincolniana,
                    it is doubtful that such an unfocused collection will have much appeal to readers who are not
                    already immersed in historians' tribal discourse.
            HARRY L. WATSON is associate professor of history at the
                    University of 
                  North Carolina, Chapel Hill
               . He has recently completed a book entitled
                        Liberty and Power: The Politics of Jacksonian America (1990).
         
         
            
               Banners in the Air: The Eighth Ohio Volunteers and the Spanish-American War. By
                    Curtis V. Hard. Edited by Robert H. Ferrell. (
                  Kent,
                            Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1988. Pp. xiv, 147. Illustrations, maps, appendixes, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $22.00.)
            The Spanish-American War of 1898 represented a turning point in America's relationship with
                    the rest of the world. It foreshadowed the 
                        United States
                    ' expanding role in international affairs in the twentieth century and
                    represented a new national self-confidence. Curtis V. Hard's personal account of the war,
                        Banners in the Air, captures the enthusiasm and patriotism of thousands of
                    National Guardsmen who rushed to join the colors after the sinking of the 
                        
                            Maine
                        
                     in Havana Harbor. Robert H. Ferrell recently discovered Hard's unpublished manuscript
                    in the archives of the Western Reserve Historical Society and has done a masterful job of editing
                    the journal.
            As commander of the 8th Ohio Volunteers, Hard led his men from mobilization in Ohio to eventual
                    deployment in 
                        Cuba
                    , where they arrived too late for action at Santiago. Nonetheless, 72 of the  1,325 men in his command perished from malaria before they could be
                    removed and quarantined at Montauk Point on Long Island. Despite the fact that the 8th Ohio saw no
                    combat, Hard's account is filled with interesting personal observations about important
                    personalities and operations of the expedition. He records both his disgust with the crusty and
                    often profane commander of the campaign, General William R. Shafter, and his sympathy for General
                    Nelson A. Miles, commanding general of the 
                        United States
                     Army, who was passed over for command in 
                        Cuba
                     and given the lesser job of occupying 
                        Puerto Rico
                    . His own second in command, Lieutenant Colonel Charles W. F. Dick, was then secretary
                    of the Republican National Committee and later, while a member of the 
                        United States
                     House of Representatives, authored the Dick Militia Act of 1903, which enacted federal
                    support for state National Guards and formalized their relationship with the regular army.
            Hard's prose is easy to follow and his observations, perhaps reflecting his midwestern
                    upbringing, are refreshingly direct and concise. He was proud of his regiment and his state and
                    entered service with the same carefree attitude as his men. Before long, however, the Ohioans saw
                    their romantic notions of war collide with unpleasant realities of disease in the Caribbean and the
                    muddled attempts of the War Department to cope with the rapid expansion of the army. The rush to get
                    to 
                        Cuba
                     and the front was followed in short order by a corresponding rush to get back to
                    America and home.
            Ferrell has done an admirable job in editing Hard's journal and has added an introduction
                    and conclusion, a complete roster of the regiment, eleven pages of notes, a bibliography on the war
                    itself, and a number of previously unpublished photographs of the 8th Ohio in 1898. Banners in the Air provides an interesting and readable eyewitness account of
                    America's last fling with heroic warfare and first encounter with its worldwide role in the
                    twentieth century.
            CAPTAIN JAMES K. HOGUE is assistant
                    professor of history at the United State Military Academy, West Point, 
                        New York
                    .
         
         
            
               The Great Silent Majority: 
                            Missouri
                        's Resistance to World War I. By Christopher C. Gibbs. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of Missouri Press, 1988. Pp. ix, 174. Notes, illustrations, table, selected
                    bibliography, index. $24.00.)
            American historians have usually assumed that while both apathy and opposition to the Great War
                    existed—especially outside the urban Northeast—most citizens eventually came
                    to support the nation's participation. Christopher C. Gibbs argues, however, that
                    "the great silent majority" of Missourians opposed involvement  throughout the war "by slacking when possible, resisting where
                    necessary, and going along when no other course of action was available" (p. 156).
            Gibbs refutes those critics who accused the war's opponents of being pacifists, pro-
                        German
                    , or political radicals. Pacifism, he contends, did not have deep roots in 
                        Missouri
                    , and while significant numbers of 
                        German
                    -Americans and Italian-Americans lived in the state, opposition to mobilization cannot
                    "be explained by ethnicity alone" (p. 43). Nor does radicalism (Socialists were
                    the most organized opponents) account for the widespread resistance. Rather, opposition emerged from
                    longtime political and economic traditions, particularly "localism, faith in democracy, and
                    anticorporate sentiment" (p. 41). The dominant theme of opponents, according to Gibbs, was
                    that "Wall Street bankers, arms dealers, [and] food speculators … wanted war
                    because they would get richer while the common people paid in money and blood" (p. 43).
            Gibbs's monograph is based on several collections, including the papers of the Missouri
                    Council of Defense, as well as about three dozen state newspapers. His chapter on the council is
                    most interesting and tends to confirm similar research on other states. Created by
                    "bankers, businessmen, and state officials" (p. 50), the Missouri council became
                    like a "private club" in which "workers, blacks, and women were hardly
                    represented at all" (pp. 53, 52). Its purpose was to mobilize the state as it tried to
                    eliminate dissent. The impetus to suppress dissent, according to Gibbs, came not from the grass
                    roots but from businessmen, public officials, and the press.
            The major difficulty with this work stems from documenting the extent of opposition to the war.
                    Newspapers, as the author acknowledges, pose problems because they usually denied dissenters a forum
                    and as a result, news coverage and editorials leave the impression of widespread support for the
                    war. Still, Gibbs says, "a careful reading of 
                        Missouri
                    's press uncovers a second level of news" that mentions slackers and
                    lack of support for mobilization (p. 28). Gibbs also uses evidence from the mobilizers themselves to
                    show that their campaigns often did not meet their own criteria for success. Interestingly, he notes
                    that only 3.8 percent of Missourians participated in the second Liberty Loan drive and less than 11
                    percent in the third, compared to the national averages of 10 and 18 percent respectively. Still,
                    this reviewer remains skeptical that opposition was as pervasive as the author claims.
            But this reservation is one of degree and should not obscure the fact that this book goes beyond John
                    C. Crighton's Missouri and the World War, 1914–1917 (1947) in
                    adding to an understanding of the homefront during the war. It is a nice contribution to the recent
                    literature that has examined mobilization at the state  and
                    local levels. Students of twentieth-century American nationalism will find this book valuable, too,
                    as an example of how the federal government increased its presence in the lives of citizens.
            STEPHEN VAUGHN teaches history of mass communication at
                    the University of 
                  Wisconsin, Madison
               . He is the author of Holding Fast the Inner
                        Lines: Democracy, Nationalism and the Committee on Public Information (1980). He is now
                    completing a study of Ronald Regans's career at Warner Bros. Pictures.
         
         
            
               On the Line: Essays in the History of Auto Work. Edited by Nelson Lichtenstein
                    and Stephen Meyer. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1989. Pp. 256. Notes, tables, illustrations, index.
                    Clothbound, $32.50; paperbound, $12.95.)
            The essays in this volume focus on the foremost mass-production industry in the twentieth century.
                    Edited by Nelson Lichtenstein and Stephen Meyer, with contributions by sociologists, historians,
                    industrial relations experts, and economists, the essays illuminate the dynamics of the labor
                    process, assess the character of shop-floor relations, and evaluate the relative power of workers
                    and managers to control the structure and organization of work.
            Wayne Lewchuk argues that the organization and militance of skilled metal workers in Britain (but not
                    in the 
                        United States
                    ) precluded the imposition there of Fordism's machine-paced production and
                    close supervision. Thomas Klug discusses the various strategies used by auto employers to control
                    the 
                        Detroit
                     labor market, which further enhanced the ability of American managers to shape
                    production in the preunion era. Tracing the social history of machine tool design and technical
                    innovation in the industry from the 1900s to the 1950s, Meyer argues that Fordism was flexible
                    enough to accommodate semispecial and automated machines and challenges scholars who hail the recent
                    rise of an allegedly new system of flexible specialization that will reskill—not deskill
                    or degrade—labor. Steve Jefferys shows how radicalized workers at the Dodge Main plant in
                    Hamtramck, 
                        Michigan
                    , in the 1930s established a strong shop-floor tradition that legitimized sectional
                    bargaining and industrial action, in stark contrast to the situation that prevailed in General
                    Motors plants. Asking why women were not retained on production jobs after World War II, Ruth
                    Milkman argues that Fordism's emphasis on high wages offered auto managers no incentive to
                    substitute women for men and that management's hiring policies, not union inaction or
                    collusion, determined the composition of the postwar automotive labor force. Lichtenstein assesses
                    the brief history of auto foremen's unionism and speculates on the relationship of the
                    "man in the middle" to the formation of working-class identity and consciousness
                    at midcentury. Stephen Amberg offers an historical perspective on the contemporary transformation of
                    the auto industry in an analysis of Studebaker  baker in 
                        South Bend
                    , arguing the importance of union politics to the successful implementation of flexible
                    specialization and the very survival of American manufacturing. Steven Tolliday and Jonathan Zeitlin
                    are less ingenuous and point to the ambiguous character of labor's power, comparing British
                    and American auto workers and the history of collective bargaining since the 1930s.
            Although the quality of the essays is mixed and uneven, the best of them represent the cutting edge
                    of scholarship, particularly insofar as labor history since the 1930s is concerned. The collection
                    as a whole is rich in insight, provocative (and often effective) in argument, and a useful addition
                    to the literature on unionism and the work process in the twentieth century.
            NANCY GABIN is assistant professor of history, Purdue
                    University, West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, where she teaches women's history and labor history. She is the
                    author of The Politics of Gender: Women and the United Automobile Workers'
                        Union, 1935–1975 (forthcoming, 1990).
         
         
            
               American Genesis: A Century of Invention and Technological Enthusiasm,
                        1870–1970. By Thomas P. Hughes. (
                        New York
                    : Viking, 1989. Pp. xii, 529. Illustrations, figures, map, notes, index.
                    $24.95.)
            "In the past, the man has been first," proclaimed Frederick Winslow Taylor in 1911;
                    "in the future the system must be first" (p. 188). Four years later the French
                    painter Francis Picabia wrote that in the 
                        United States
                    , "the machine has become more than a mere adjunct of human life. It is really
                    a part of human life—perhaps the very soul" (p. 330). With Taylor, Picabia saw
                    "the machine" promoting efficiency, gigantic scale, and hierarchical organization
                    in modern culture. The promise of American technological systems to foster a new civilization spread
                    through the Western imagination like no other utopian ideal since the French Revolution, cutting
                    across national and ideological boundaries. By the 1930s, Joseph Stalin would point to the enormous
                    steel complex at Magnitogorsk as a socialist Gary, Indiana, the fulfillment of his early claim that
                    "the combination of Russian revolutionary sweep with American efficiency is the essence of
                    Leninism" (p. 251).
            In American Genesis, the eminent historian of technology Thomas P. Hughes describes
                    the revolution in systems-building as the most significant contribution of the 
                        United States
                     to twentieth-century culture. Like his hero Lewis Mumford, Hughes believes that the
                    history of technology is essentially cultural history and that "technology is both a shaper
                    of, and is shaped by, values" (p. 5). Hughes's synthetic narrative of
                    "technological enthusiasm" between 1870 and 1970 has two central themes: first,
                    the incorporation  of invention at the turn of the century as
                    the loose, quasi-Bohemian culture of early inventors came under the sway of corporate industry; and
                    second, the diffusion of values and symbols of order, precision, and systematic control from
                    technology to politics and culture.
            Hughes's book reaches its climax when it covers the period between 1919 and 1945, as
                    "Taylorismus and Fordismus" inspired Americans and Europeans alike with a
                    "white socialism" of mass production and consumption overseen by engineers (p.
                    289). Hughes brilliantly demonstrates that it was European Modernists, Weimar social democrats, and
                    Soviet revolutionaries who laid the groundwork for American social planning in the 1930s and the
                    military-industrial complex of the 1940s by translating technics into artistic form and political
                    ideology. But the culminating creations of that enterprise—the Tennessee Valley Authority
                    and the Manhattan Project—also set the stage for the disillusionment with "The
                    System" during the 1960s. Hughes concludes with a survey of the ideas of Jacques Ellul,
                    Mumford, and other theorists of technological dystopia. Despite the Reagan administration's
                    hope of salvation through Star Wars, Hughes asserts that the revolutionary enthusiasm for American
                    technological systems has ended.
            Hughes's masterful study of this critical moment in Western culture interweaves elegant
                    portraits of American inventors and systems-builders with its overarching theory of the dialectic of
                    technics and civilization. At times, however, this synthesis comes undone. Some chapters veer
                    between overly technical discussions of scientific matters and summary statements about the culture
                    of technology that lack grounding in other relevant developments, such as the ideology of progress,
                    popular images of technology, and the emergence of a consumer culture. By neglecting popular
                    attitudes about technology and the representation of systems in mass culture, Hughes misses the
                    monkey wrenches of skepticism, sarcasm, and outrage that ordinary people have often tossed into the
                    works of the systems builders. As a result, Hughes gives the impression that the technological
                    ideologues were right in arguing that systems had replaced human beings—a form of
                    technological determinism at odds with his keen Mumfordian insights into modern history.
            CASEY BLAKE is assistant professor of history at Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , and the author of Beloved Community: The Cultural Criticism of 
                            Randolph
                         Bourne, Van Wyck Brooks, Waldo Frank, and Lewis Mumford
                (forthcoming).
         
         
            
               Should America Go to War? The Debate Over Foreign Policy in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1939–1941. By James C. Schneider. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1989. Pp. xxii, 289. Appendix, notes, bibliography, index. $37.50.)
            How and why do democracies go to war? James C. Schneider addresses this question in an engaging and
                    well-researched examination  of how the citizens of 
                        Chicago
                     grappled with the momentous issues posed by 
                        German
                     and Japanese aggression in the three years before Pearl Harbor. He selects 
                        Chicago
                     for his grass roots study because of the diversity and activism of its civic leaders,
                    media, and ethnic communities. He details the opinions and activities of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune, the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Daily News, the local chapters of the Committee to Defend America by Aiding the
                    Allies (CDA) and the America First Committee (AFC), as well as veterans' groups,
                    women's organizations, university students and faculty, black journalists, and others. The
                    varying responses in 
                        Chicago
                     to the 1940 presidential candidacy of Indiana's Wendell Willkie are covered.
                    The author interweaves local concerns with international issues and provides some
                    often-difficult-to-discern links between public attitudes and foreign policy.
            Schneider draws clearly the lines of debate over 
                        United States
                     entry into the war. The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune and AFC contended that the war itself was dangerous to the 
                        United States
                     and must be avoided. Even aid to Britain was unacceptable because it would only lead
                    America to war. The Daily News and CDA argued, on the other hand, that Nazi
                    tyranny and ambition were the real dangers and that aid to Britain would, in fact, help avoid 
                        United States
                     military involvement. With passage of the lend-lease act in March, 1941, the proaid
                    position became 
                        United States
                     policy, but the debate itself continued. The invective and attacks by both sides on the
                    integrity of the other escalated. With repeated and unsubstantiated assertions that the majority of
                    Americans opposed aid to the Allies and that 
                        Franklin
                     Delano Roosevelt was duping the public into war, the isolationists obscured their best
                    arguments about the risks of intervention. Conversely, the internationalists hurt their cause and
                    muddled the issues by charging that the administration's critics hated Roosevelt more than
                    Hitler and were doing the Nazis' work in America.
            Realist critics of American foreign policy such as Hans Morgenthau, George Kennan, and 
                        Norman
                     Graebner have argued that both the isolationists and internationalists overdemanded and
                    wanted something for nothing. Schneider adds a new and disturbing implication. The public debate
                    gave the president no positive guidance and produced no foreign policy consensus. Some scholars
                    assert that Harry S Truman and Lyndon B. Johnson should have sought congressional declarations of
                    war in 
                        Korea
                     and 
                        Vietnam
                    . Schneider's study suggests that public debate does not necessarily lead to
                    consensus on domestically divisive wars.
            DAVID L. ANDERSON is associate professor of history and
                    chair, Department of History and Political Science, University of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is the author of Imperialism and Idealism: American Diplomats in 
                            China
                        , 1861–1898 (1985) and is currently working on a book on the
                    Eisenhower administration and 
                        Vietnam
                    .
         
         
         
            
               Common Houses in America's Small Towns: The Atlantic Seaboard to the
                        Mississippi Valley. By John A. Jakle, Robert W. Bastian, and Douglas K. Meyer. (
                        Athens
                    : University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1989. Pp. x, 238. Illustrations, figures, tables, maps, glossary, bibliography,
                    index. Clothbound, $50.00; paperbound, $25.00.)
            Scholars have examined house types from many disciplines and perspectives. But to dismiss Common Houses in America's Small Towns as simply another contribution to
                    an eclectic field would be a mistake. As cultural/historical geographers, the authors pose two basic
                    questions: which common houses predominate in the eastern 
                        United States
                     and how do they vary geographically? To answer these questions, the authors take a
                    scientific approach, surveying 17,000 old and new single family dwellings ("common
                    houses") in twenty carefully selected small towns (including 
                        Rockville
                    , Indiana) spread across four east-west cultural zones. From this data base, they
                    develop a logical house-type classification system using form rather than ornamentation, test
                    hypotheses about house-type distribution (contradicting many assumptions), and discover spatial and
                    temporal relationships between towns according to their housing characteristics.
            The authors present their findings through concise text and numerous black-and-white photographs,
                    drawings, tables, diagrams, and maps, most of which are essentially graphs indicating each
                    town's percentage of houses in each form category. An introductory chapter reviews the
                    literature on house types and explains the perspectives taken by cultural geographers. The next
                    chapter describes the classification scheme and the criteria for selecting the study towns, which
                    are briefly discussed in the following chapter. An examination of the geographic distribution of
                    basic house characteristics comprises the next chapter. Five subsequent chapters discuss each major
                    house form and its variants. The concluding chapter argues that how Americans house themselves is
                    more easily discovered than how houses vary geographically. A helpful glossary of structural forms,
                    a bibliography, and an index complete the volume.
            Although mechanical flaws, such as the absence in the bibliography of a work cited in the text, are
                    few, readers might wish that traditional pie charts had been substituted for the square charts on
                    the map-graphs. Most disappointing about the book is its incomplete summarization and synthesis,
                    particularly in the concluding chapter, of the abundant detail presented. For example, some nagging
                    questions arise. What combination of house forms characterizes each town and the four cultural
                    regions? Why, not in terms of number of linkages but in specifics of form, structure, and detail,
                    are Hudson, 
                        Michigan
                    , and 
                  Louisville, Georgia
               , respectively, the most typical northern and southern towns?
            
            
               COMMON HOUSES IN ROCKVILLE, INDIANA
               
            
            
               SINGLE-PILE DWELLING, ONLY ONE ROOM DEEP
               
            
            
               L-SHAPED, MIDDLE-CLASS HOME, 1880s
               Courtesy Douglas K. Meyer.
            
            
            Overall, the book's valuable contributions to methodology, classification, and information
                    far outweigh its few shortcomings. As an excellent classification and field guide, Common Houses
                    should be consulted by all who study house types and distribution.
            GREGORY S. ROSE is a historical geographer at The Ohio
                    State University at Marion specializing in the origins of nineteenth-century migrants to the
                    Midwest. Some of his research on Indiana's pioneers has appeared in the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
         
         
            
               Documenting America, 1935–1943. Edited by Carl Fleischhauer and
                    Beverly W. Brannan. Essays by Lawrence W. Levine and Alan Trachtenberg. (
                        Berkeley
                    : University of California Press, in association with the Library of Congress, 1988. Pp.
                    xi, 361. Notes, illustrations, appendix, tables, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $60.00;
                    paperbound, $24.95.)
            A remarkable social document was created by photographers working for a federal agency founded during
                    the depths of the Great Depression and active through the gearing up of the industrial war effort.
                    Beginning in 1935 as the Historical Section of the Resettlement Administration, the
                    agency's mission was to inform the public of the plight of the rural poor and to document
                    Resettlement's efforts to improve the circumstances of this "submerged
                    third" of the population. Resettlement and its programs were absorbed by the Farm Security
                    Administration (Department of Agriculture) in 1937, and the photographic staff was transferred to
                    the Office of War Information in 1943 and allowed to wither.
            Throughout their mission, the work of the photographers was guided by their able director, Roy
                    Emerson Stryker, a 
                        Columbia
                     economics instructor, who expanded his initial charge and guided the photographers in a
                    continuing project aimed at fulfilling his dream of a comprehensive visual encyclopedia of American
                    life. The resultant files have been housed at the Library of Congress since 1943 as the FSA/OWI
                    Collection. Although short of a total realization of Stryker's dream, these files are a
                    national treasure. The extent to which this has been recognized can be gauged by leafing through
                    Penelope Dixon's Photographers of the Farm Security Administration: An
                        Annotated Bibliography (1983), which requires fully 250 pages to record all that has been
                    published about, or has made use of, the FSA photographs.
            The FSA/OWI files are also the subject of Documenting America, which is far more
                    than the fiftieth-anniversary tribute it purports to be. The book, edited by Carl Fleischhauer and
                    Beverly W. Brannan, is an indispensable guide for the researcher who uses the files and is a very
                    thorough and accessible introduction for the general reader. It avoids the heavy emphasis, so
                    characteristic of earlier works, on the photographers as artists/personalities. It instead presents
                    the photographs themselves in a new way—perhaps 
                    closer to Stryker's own intentions—and corrects a number of factual errors
                    which, made early on, have been endlessly repeated.
            The editors have chosen to reproduce single, complete assignments recorded by each of the principal
                    photographers. An example is the fourteen-print selection from a series by Gordon Parks entitled
                    "Ella Watson, U.S. Government Charwoman." Only one photograph from this series has
                    heretofore been widely published (a close-up of Watson and her broom against an American flag
                    background), and while it is an arresting image, alone it gives no hint of the details of a life
                    that can be viewed when the entire series is examined. The point made is that the hit-the-high-spots
                    approach of most earlier works on the FSA photographs results in misconceptions about the nature of
                    the work and of its real value as a source of historical information.
            An assessment of this value is made in the opening essays by Lawrence W. Levine and Alan
                    Trachtenberg. The best, however, is saved for last. At the back of the book is a wonderful essay in
                    which the authors describe not only the FSA/OWI files' content and arrangement, but also
                    their assembly and reorganization by the Library of Congress. Thanks to this essay, future
                    researchers will know much more about what they can expect to encounter when working with the files.
                    The authors reveal, for instance, that their detailed count puts the size of the file at only about
                    half the figure most commonly cited. Even so, there appears to be a vast amount of material not
                    previously dealt with by historians. Documenting America is an important work for
                    anyone interested in documentary photography. It is an essential one for scholars interested in the
                    history captured by the FSA/OWI photographers.
            JAMES C. ANDERSON is head of photographic archives at the
                    Ekstrom Library, University of 
                  Louisville,
                            Louisville, Kentucky
               .
         
         
            
               Iowa History and Culture: A Bibliography of Materials Published Between 1952 and
                        1986. Compiled by Patricia Dawson and David Hudson. (Ames: State Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    , in association with Iowa State University Press, 1989. Pp. xiii, 356. Indexes.
                    $34.95.)
            Compiled by two Iowa librarians, this bibliography both supplements and expands upon William
                    Petersen's 
                        Iowa
                    
                    History Reference Guide (1952), covering the broader culture—as well as
                    the history—of the Hawkeye state. The book is divided into several major sections:
                    general histories, regional and local history, biography and autobiography, and subject histories.
                    Excluded are genealogies, newspaper articles, manuscripts, and audio-visual materials. There are
                    excellent personal name and subject indexes, and entries  are
                    annotated where titles provide insufficient information about subject. Though one could wish a
                    larger typeface had been used for the entries, this is a well-organized and comprehensive resource.
            LEIGH DARBEE, curator of printed collections and head of
                    reference at the Indiana Historical Society Library, is currently working on a bibliography of the
                    Society's books and maps printed through the year 1840.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
