
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 89, Issue 2, pages 101-173. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:89+issue:2+year:1993&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            W. E. B. Du Bois, F. B. Ransom, the Madam Walker Company, and Black Business Leadership in the
                    1930s
            
                    Mark David Higbee⋆
               
                
            From the 1870s to the 1930s, the development of business enterprise was widely seen as the one
                    essential ingredient for African-American progress. Yet neither African-American business enterprise
                    nor the political roles of black entrepreneurs have been adequately studied by historians. Accounts
                    of African-American economic hardships during the Great Depression have slighted the important
                    political debates that these hardships produced. Similarly, writings on W. E. B. Du Bois, the black
                    scholar and founder of the twentieth-century civil rights protest tradition, have neglected his
                    distinctive vision of African-American business enterprise.
            Consequently, a little known 1937–1938 dispute between Du Bois and Freeman B. Ransom, an
                    African-American businessman and 
                        Indianapolis
                     community leader, demands attention. Ransom and Du Bois viewed the proper aims of
                    business enterprise in radically opposing ways. The Ransom-Du Bois dispute provides an opportunity
                    to examine the differing ways these two leaders approached the problems of the Depression as well as
                    how African Americans reconsidered older ideas of black business enterprise and political
                    leadership. Studying the 1930s is acutely important because during that decade faith in business as
                    the basis for African-American leadership was supplanted by political and labor strategies.
            
               
                  ⋆ Mark Higbee is completing a dissertation on W.E.B. Du Bois at 
                            Columbia
                         University, 
                            New York
                        . He thanks the following people for their comments on various drafts of this essay:
                        Barbara Bair, Eric Bates, Martha Biondi, Jonathan Birenbaum, Elizabeth Blackmar, Eric Foner,
                        Wilma Gibbs, Sarah Henry, Kate Levin, Judith Stein, the members of 
                            Columbia
                         University's U.S. History Dissertation Group, and the anonymous readers
                        for the Indiana Magazine of History. An early version was presented at the
                        Indiana Historical Society's annual meeting in November, 1991.
            
            
            The issues that undergirded the Du Bois-Ransom dispute of 1937–1938 were a reprise of the
                    famous Booker T. Washington-Du Bois debate of the early 1900s.1
                    
                        Washington
                     and Du Bois had debated whether blacks should accommodate to America's
                    segregationist racial order. Thirty years later Ransom and Du Bois disagreed on the equally basic
                    question of how much of America's existing social and economic system should be embraced
                    and how much rejected by African Americans.
            On December 18, 1937, Du Bois used his column in the 
                        Pittsburgh
                    
                    Courier to criticize the 
                        Indianapolis
                    -based Madam C.J. Walker Manufacturing Company, the famous African-American hair and
                    beauty products enterprise. The attack was part of Du Bois's long-running critique of what
                    he perceived as the failure of black businesses to address the basic needs of black Americans.
                    Although Du Bois praised the accomplishments of the late "Madame Walker and her hair
                    culture business" as "epoch-making," he attacked the firm:
                    "Since Madame Walker's death the business has fallen, I have been told, mainly
                    into the hands of white capitalists." Further, the company had based itself "on
                    the usual exploitation of labor." Du Bois suggested an alternative vision of how the
                    business might have developed:
                        a little broader knowledge and far-seeing advice might easily have turned the Walker hair
                            culture business during her [Walker's] life into a co-operative enterprise and this
                            co-operation, instead of being simply a group capitalistic movement, could have been given
                            the form of a socialistic mass movement, not only in hair culture but in other lines. What
                            is true of the Walker business can be true of the whole inner economic organization of
                            American Negroes.2
                  
                    
            
            Ransom was the Walker Company's manager and attorney. In an open letter to Du Bois published
                    in the 
                        Pittsburgh
                    
                    Courier, he angrily protested the attack. "There is not now, or has there
                    ever been," Ransom insisted, "one share of stock of the Mme. C.J. Walker Mfg.
                    Company owned by any white man" or "‘by white
                    capitalists.’" Only "members of the Walker family" had ever
                    held shares in the firm. While Ransom ignored Du Bois's comments about cooperative business
                    enterprise and Du Bois's broader critique 
                  
                     1 See chapter 3 in William Edward Burghardt Du Bois, The
                                Souls of Black Folk (
                                Chicago
                            , 1903), and Louis R. Harlan, Booker T. Washington: The Wizard of
                                Tuskegee, 1901–1915 (
                                New York
                            , 1983).
                  
                     2 Du Bois's column, "Madame Walker," 
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Courier, December 18, 1937 (hereafter cited as Du Bois, "Madame
                            Walker"). Du Bois's newspaper columns have been reprinted in Herbert
                            Aptheker, ed., Newspaper Columns by W. E. B Du Bois (2 vols., White
                            Plains, N.Y., 1986); "Madame Walker" is in Volume I, 258–59. Du
                            Bois's allegation that the Walker Company exploited its workers was not directly
                            challenged by Freeman B. Ransom, and Du Bois never reiterated it. The actual relations
                            between the firm and its employees call out for study.
               
                    
                    
                  FREEMAN B. RANSOM Courtesy Indiana Historical Society
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     of black business enterprise, he demanded an apology and a
                    published correction.3
            
            Emanating from the nation's most prominent black intellectual and appearing in what was the
                    nation's leading African-American newspaper (the Courier's 1938
                    circulation was a quarter million copies a week), Du Bois's allegation that whites
                    controlled the firm contradicted the image that the Walker Company was a company run and owned by
                    African Americans and an employer that created opportunity and self-respect for its black employees
                    and agents.4 And Du Bois was wrong: "white capitalists" did
                    not control the firm.
            Du Bois replied privately to Ransom on December 22, 1937:
                        I am sorry that my reference to your company in the ‘
                                Pittsburgh
                             Courier’ did not altogether please you. You will remember that I did
                            not say that the business had fallen into the hands of white capitalists. I said that I had
                            been told it had. Nor was there anything in my statement or intention to decry or injure
                            your business in any way. Most of us, are engaged in work which is directed wholly or in
                            part by white capital. That fact in itself is not at all derogatory. I merely mentioned the
                            rumor in this case because the matter was of importance in the possible development of
                            cooperative business among 118.5
                  
                     The letter hardly satisfied Ransom. He again wrote Du Bois, demanding a published
                    correction and hinting at a lawsuit. He also scoffed at Du Bois's claim that he meant
                    nothing "derogatory." The purpose of Du Bois's comments on the Walker
                    Company's purported fall to "white capitalists," Ransom believed, was to
                    blame its management for failing to advance African-American economic development. But Du Bois was
                    unmoved by Ransom's protest. In early January, 1938, Du Bois told the Courier that he had no plans to apologize or make any admission of error.6
            
            Two days later, Ransom wrote Du Bois a third letter "to inquire as to just what you plan to
                    do before I take further action in the matter."7 Ransom's
                    threat finally moved Du Bois to seek advice from Arthur Spingarn, a lawyer, a top official of the
                    National Association 
                  
                     3 Freeman B. Ransom to Du Bois, December 20, 1937, reel 48, frame 327,
                            microfilm edition, W.E.B. Du Bois Papers (University of 
                                Massachusetts
                            , Amherst, 
                                Massachusetts
                            ). Reel and frame references to the Du Bois Papers are hereafter cited together,
                            as in this case for example, "48:327." F. B. Ransom, "Whites Have
                            Never Owned One Share of Stock in Mme. C.J. Walker Co., F.B. Ransom Writes in reply to
                            Article Penned by Dr. W.E.B. Du Bois," 
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Courier, January 1, 1938, sec. 2, p. 2.
                  
                     4 Du Bois, "Madame Walker"; and Ransom to Du Bois,
                            December 20, 1937, 48:327, Du Bois Papers. For the Courier's
                            circulation figures, see Rayford Logan's biographical sketch of Robert Vann, the
                            paper's publisher, in Rayford W. Logan and Michael R. Winston, eds., Dictionary of American Negro Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1982), 615.
                  
                     5 Du Bois to Ransom, December 22, 1937, 48:328, Du Bois Papers.
                  
                     6 Ransom to Du Bois, December 28, 1937, 48:329, ibid.; Du Bois to Ira F. Lewis, January 5, 1938, 49:425, ibid.
                  
                     7 Ransom to Du Bois, January 7, 1938, 49:794, ibid.
               
                    
                    
                  W.E.B. DU BOIS (1868–1963) IN
                            HIS
                            SEVENTIES Photograph by Carl Van Vechten. Courtesy of the Archives,
                            University Library, the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
               
                     for the Advancement of Colored People, and a long-time Du Bois
                    friend. Spingarn warned Du Bois that a court could find his statement libelous and injurious to the
                    Walker Company. At the very least, such a suit would be expensive to defend. Spingarn also told Du
                    Bois that "the moral side of it requires some form of correction."8 With this stern warning from an old friend, Du Bois retreated.
            In the Courier of January 23, 1938, Du Bois retracted his claim that white capital
                    controlled the Walker Company: "I am glad to withdraw the statement and I am sorry if what
                    I said did any harm." Du Bois added that he was pleased with the firm's success
                    and with its having remained "under Negro control." This apology ended the
                    exchanges between Ransom and Du Bois. Ransom wrote Du Bois that he considered the matter closed.
                    Privately, Du Bois explained his own reversal by telling the Courier's
                    manager that Ransom had been "obstreperous and I am trying to placate him."9
            
            Du Bois had failed to investigate what he had heard about the Walker Company before publishing it and
                    had tried to avoid admitting error. Ransom, understandably, wanted the record set straight. In
                    truth, however, the Du Bois-Ransom dispute went far deeper than the narrow question of fact. The
                    controversy reflected antagonisms born of these leaders’ fundamentally different ideas of
                    the proper function of black business enterprise and their conflicting views of the proper aims of
                    African-American leadership. In order to understand the roots of the dispute, the history of the
                    Walker Company and the careers and political views of Ransom and Du Bois must be examined.
            Ransom adhered to a conservative, Booker T. Washington-inspired vision of black business enterprise,
                    which held that "the race" would advance by following in the footsteps of
                    successful African-American businessmen. (
                        Washington
                     conceived of such leaders and business entrepreneurs as men, not women: in 1912 he
                    tried to prevent Madam C.J. Walker, already successful in business, from addressing the National
                    Negro Business League Convention.) In the years between the defeat of Reconstruction in the 1870s
                    and the Great Depression, a consensus existed among educated 
                  
                     8 Du Bois to Arthur Spingarn, January 10, 1938, Spingarn to Du Bois,
                            January 12, 1938, 49:696–97, ibid.
                  
                     9 Du Bois's January 23, 1938, Courier
                            column, "Mme. C.J. Walker Manufacturing Company," (in Aptheker, Newspaper Columns of W. E. B. Du Bois, I, 262–63); Ransom to Du
                            Bois, January 19, 1938, 49:796, Du Bois Papers; Du Bois to Ira F. Lewis, January 11, 1938,
                            49:425, ibid. Du Bois wrote F.E. DeFranz, head of 
                                Indianapolis
                            's black Senate Avenue YMCA shortly after speaking there in February,
                            1938, to thank him for a good audience and "for your diplomacy in the case of Mr.
                            Ransom." Just what this "diplomacy" involved cannot be
                            ascertained from the records available. Du Bois to F. E. DeFranz, February 21, 1938, 492386,
                                ibid.
               
                     African Americans that the advancement of "the
                    race" depended on the development of black business enterprises. As the 
                        New York
                    
                    Age, a black newspaper, stated: "There is commercial opportunity
                    everywhere. Let us hammer away. The almighty dollar is the magic wand that knocks the bottom out of
                    race prejudice." Ransom aptly expressed this view in 1924: "Business opportunities
                    are opening up everywhere, the gates are swinging open, a race has seen the light, indeed no power
                    on earth is strong enough to halt the resistless waves of the ever advancing Negro."10
            
            Ransom was born in 
                  Grenada, Mississippi
               , in 1882. Educated in the public schools of 
                        Grenada
                     and at Walden University Law School in 
                        Nashville
                    , Ransom settled in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1910 and was admitted to the state bar. That same year, Madam C.J. Walker
                    (1867–1919) moved her hair and skin care products company to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There she bought a house and opened a factory to produce her company's
                    products. She also took the young Ransom as a boarder. He soon started doing legal work for her,
                    beginning a professional relationship between Ransom and the Walker Company that lasted until his
                    death in 1947.11
            
            Madam C.J. Walker was born Sarah Breedlove in 1867 near Delta, 
                        Louisiana
                    . She was orphaned at seven, married at fourteen, had a daugther, A'Lelia, and
                    was widowed at twenty. After her husband's death, Breedlove moved with her young daughter
                    to 
                        St. Louis
                    , where she worked as a laundress. This exhausting and poorly paid work, with its
                    constant exposure to soap, dirt, and hot steam, dried her skin and hair and caused premature hair
                        loss.12 Similar occupational hazards affected countless other African 
                  
                     10 For the National Negro Business League incident, see
                            A'Lelia Perry Bundles, Madam C.J. Walker (
                                New York
                            , 1991), 13–14. The 
                                New York
                            
                            Age quotation is from Walter Weare, "Charles 
                                Clinton
                             Spaulding: Middle-class Leadership in the Age of Segregation," in John
                            Hope 
                                Franklin
                             and August Meier, eds., Black Leaders of the Twentieth
                            Century (
                                Urbana
                            , 1982), 169. For the Ransom quote, see the Garvey movement newspaper, Negro World, August 2, 1924. See also August Meier, Negro
                                Thought in America, 1880–1915 (
                                Ann Arbor
                            , 1963).
                  
                     11 For biographical sketches of Ransom, see his entries in Who's Who in Colored America (6th ed., 
                                Brooklyn
                            , N.Y., 1941–1944); Who's Who of the Colored
                                Race (
                                Chicago
                            , 1915), I; and, the useful reference work edited by Florence 
                                Murray
                            , The Negro Handbook (
                                New York
                            , 1949). Bundles, Madam C.J. Walker, contains information on
                            Ransom, as does Two Dollars and A Dream: The Story of Mme. C.J. and
                                A'Lelia Walker, a film by Stanley Nelson, Ransom's grandson
                            (produced by Stanley Nelson & Associates, 1987).
                  
                     12 No full-length study of Walker or her company yet exists. But her
                            great-great-granddaughter, A'Lelia Perry Bundles, has written Madam
                                C.J. Walker, a fine contribution to the Chelsea House Publishers’ young
                            adult series, "Black Americans of Achievement," for which historian Nathan
                            Irwin Huggins was senior consulting editor. Bundles's slim volume is based on
                            letters not generally available to scholars and includes numerous photographs. For two short
                            sketches written by historians, see the Walker entries by Rayford Logan in Dictionary of American Negro Biography, and by Catherine 
                                Clinton
                             in The Reader's Companion to American History, eds.
                            Eric Foner and John A. Garraty (
                                Boston
                            , 1991). These works are hereafter cited as Logan, "Walker"
                            and 
                                Clinton
                            , "Walker."
               
                    
                    
                  ON
                            THE
                            STEPS
                            OF
                            THE SENATE AVENUE YMCA LEFT
                            TO RIGHT, GEORGE KNOX, C. J. WALKER, F. B. RANSOM, BOOKER T. WASHINGTON, ALEXANDER MANNING, DR. JOSEPH WARD, R. W. BULLOCK, AND THOMAS A. TAYLOR Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     American women laundry workers, who earned no more than
                    "a couple of dollars a week."13
            
            Breedlove's experience as a laundress helped inspire her to start a business making and
                    selling hair and skin care products and techniques for African-American women. By 1905 she was
                    perfecting and selling her hair-cleaning, hair grower, and pomade formulas as well as a hot comb for
                    the hair and creams for the skin. Her marriage to a 
                        Denver
                     newspaper sales agent, C. J. Walker, produced her business name, Madam C.J. Walker. The
                    marriage soon ended, but the business prospered. Walker attracted customers and recruited a sales
                    force of African-American women—the "Walker agents"—through
                    extensive promotional travels. In 1910, seeking a central location with good access to railroads,
                    she consolidated her business in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , "where she built a plant to manufacture her products." By 1915,
                    Walker had become one of the early twentieth century's most successful businesswomen and
                    one of the most famous African Americans.14
            
            Walker pioneered new ways of marketing consumer products. As the mass consumer age was beginning,
                    Walker grasped what "image" would sell her products, and she projected it
                    forcefully: a company owned and started by a hard working but glamorous African-American woman who
                    had pulled herself up from the cotton fields and wash tubs to become a
                        "millionaire."15 Much of the appeal of Walker's
                    products was that Madam Walker was a woman who seemed to embody her customer's own dreams.
                    Her story of success accorded well with both the reigning national ideology of business enterprise
                    and individual endeavor, as well as with the personal aspirations of her African-American women
                    customers to appear stylish and beautiful.16
            
            Walker also portrayed herself as a progressive employer. "I am endeavoring," she
                    said in 1914, "to provide employment for hundreds of women of my race." Although
                    some ran store-front beauty shops, most Walker agents ran their shops from their homes or sold
                    Walker products door-to-door. Their average earnings substantially 
                  
                     13 Jacqueline Jones, Labor of Love, Labor of Sorrow:
                                Black Women, Work, and the Family from Slavery to the Present (
                                New York
                            , 1985), 125–26.
                  
                     14 Logan, "Walker." Bundles, Madam C.J.
                                Walker, 35–38, offers a slightly different chronology.
                  
                     15 The Walker legend holds that Madam Walker was the first woman to
                            earn a million dollars, but she probably never came close to that much wealth. The value of
                            her company was dependent on continued growth in sales, which relied on continuous promotion
                            and increased expenses. While Walker once complained to Booker 
                                Washington
                             that "I have been mistaken for a rich woman," that was the
                            image she had created. Walker to 
                                Washington
                            , May 5, 1914, in Louis R. Harlan and Raymond Smock, eds., The
                                Papers of Booker T. Washington (14 vols., 
                                Urbana
                            , 1972–1989), XIII, 14–15.
                  
                     16 Logan, "Walker"; Bundles, Madam C.J.
                                Walker, 14.
               
                     exceeded those of most African-American women wage workers.17
            
            Walker's interests extended beyond business to politics, especially during the last years of
                    her life. In 1917, after the bloody East 
                  St. Louis,
                            Illinois
               , race riot (in which white mobs
                    murdered scores of African Americans and burned hundreds of homes), Walker joined a delegation of
                    African Americans that traveled to the White House and presented a petition protesting the
                    lynchings. President Woodrow Wilson refused to see them. Not for another year would Wilson publicly
                    condemn lynchings. And in 1918 Walker was one of eleven African Americans selected by the National
                    Equal Rights League, a militant civil rights group led by 
                        Boston
                    's William Monroe Trotter, to attend the 
                        Paris
                     peace conference. The delegation aimed to call attention to the rights of black people
                    in America and in Europe's African colonies. As World War I came to an end, Trotter
                    demanded that Wilson add a fifteenth item to his Fourteen Points peace plan: "the
                    elimination of civil, political, and judicial distinctions based on race or color in all
                    nations." Because the State Department denied visas to the Trotter group, Walker never left
                    for Europe. In the spring of 1919, she died at age fifty-one.18
            
            With Walker's death, Ransom's responsibilities with the company grew. Already in
                    charge of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     factory, he now supervised the national network of Walker agents and directed
                    marketing. A Walker Company film, featuring F. B. Ransom, played in "colored"
                    movie houses and was one of the first films ever used to promote commercial products.19 In the 1920s, however, the company began a long decline. In part this resulted from the
                    rise of competitors and imitators in the growing and volatile beauty products industry. Most
                    importantly, after Walker's death, the firm lacked its powerfully symbolic founder, whose
                    extensive promotional travels had consistently spurred sales.
            Moreover, in the 1920s the company constructed what quickly became a major item of expensive
                    overhead: the famous Walker Building, which still stands on Indiana Avenue just west of downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Completed in 1927, the Walker Building was both a remarkable achievement and a
                    tremendous capital investment. A four-story, 48,000 square foot, triangle-shaped structure with
                    polychrome terra cotta trim, the Walker Building is a notable historic and architectural landmark.
                    When it opened, the building housed the Walker Manufacturing Company's plant and offices,
                        
                  
                     17 Logan, "Walker"; 
                                Clinton
                            , "Walker."
                  
                     18 Bundles, Madam C.J. Walker, 63–64,
                            82–84, 98–100; Stephen R. Fox, The Guardian of 
                                    Boston
                                : William Monroe Trotter (
                                New York
                            , 1971), 221–23.
                  
                     19 Stanley Nelson's film Two Dollars and A
                            Dream contains a clip from the 1920s Walker Company film.
               
                     the beautiful Walker Theatre (which featured films and live
                    performances), professional offices, and a number of other African-American businesses. The Walker
                    Building quickly became the social and civic center of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     black community.20
            
            At a time when African Americans could not get a bite to eat is segregated downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the Walker Building offered a restaurant, the "Coffee Pot," open to
                    all customers, as well as perhaps the only non-segregated movie theater in the entire state. The
                    Walker Building provided the black community of 
                        Indianapolis
                     with a cluster of shops and stores, a social center, a grand ballroom, a theater,
                    doctors’ offices, and, naturally, a Madam C.J. Walker Beauty salon. Indeed, the Walker
                    Building was a precursor to the modern shopping mall: with many retail, food, and entertainment
                    establishments under one roof, it was a place for shopping, seeing friends, and having fun. But like
                    a shopping mall, the Walker Building relied on people spending money, and blacks had very little to
                    spend, especially after the Depression hit. Consequently, Walker Building businesses lost money, and
                    this grand civic monument became a financial drain for the company.
            The fortunes of the Walker Building also appear to explain how Du Bois formed the impression that the
                    Madam C.J. Walker Manufacturing Company was no longer owned by African Americans. The Walker Theatre
                    Company, an entity legally separate from the Walker Manufacturing Company, leased the theater for an
                    annual rent of $15,000, payable to the Walker Manufacturing Company, the
                    building's owner. As early as January, 1930, the Walker Theatre Company owed a large back
                    rent, forcing the Walker Manufacturing Company to find another tenant. The company leased the
                    theater to a white businessman, who "continued to book films and shows of interest to the
                    black 
                        Indianapolis
                     community." Since Du Bois visited 
                        Indianapolis
                     often on his lecture trips, he undoubtedly heard or observed personally that the Walker
                    Theatre was being run by a white businessman and later conflated the Walker Theatre with the Madam
                    C.J. Walker Manufacturing Company.21 This is the only evident explanation for Du
                    Bois's mistaken impression that the Walker Company was controlled by "white 
                  
                     20 Gloria J. Gibson-Hudson, "'To all classes; to all
                            races; this house is dedicated’: The Walker Theatre Revisited," Indiana
                            Historical Society Black History News and Notes, XXXV (February, 1989),
                            4–6.
                  
                     21
                     Ibid. Du Bois had undoubtedly visited the Walker
                            Building and the Walker Theatre, probably several times, on his lecture trips. And Mrs.
                            Frances Stout, who grew up in Ransom's neighborhood, knew the Ransom family, and
                            attended events at the Senate Avenue YMCA, remembers Du Bois visiting Ransom's
                            home, probably earlier than 1937. Mrs. Stout recalls that many African-American speakers
                            from out-of-town were entertained by the Ransom family. Mrs. Stout kindly shared this
                            information with the author at the November, 1991, meeting of the Indiana Historical
                            Society.
               
                    
                    
                  INDIANA AVENUE
                            IN INDIANAPOLIS, ANCHORED
                            BY
                            THE WALKER BUILDING Courtesy
                            Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     capitalists." Du Bois was probably not alone in
                    overlooking the distinction between the Walker Manufacturing Company and other businesses associated
                    with the Walker name. By the late 1930s, almost twenty years after Madam Walker's death,
                    the Walker Building was probably a more visible manifestation of her legacy than was the company
                    itself. Ransom's "open letter" to Du Bois complained that Du Bois had not
                    mentioned "our new million dollar plant here in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ," although by then it was ten years old.22
            
            Ransom's own leadership and civic activities extended well beyond the Walker Company. He was
                    an important political, church, and business leader in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     African-American community, as well as a practicing attorney. While a Republican in the
                    World War I era, during the 1930s Ransom became a Democrat and encouraged African-American voters to
                    leave the Republican party for the Democratic party of F#2 D. Roosevelt and the New Deal. As
                    historian John Hope 
                        Franklin
                     noted, Ransom was one of many black leaders "who was widely known" to
                    be "high in the Democratic [party] councils" under Roosevelt.23
            
            In the 1930s and 1940s, Ransom held patronage appointments to the board of trustees for the Indiana
                    School for the Blind under three Democratic governors and served as its treasurer as well. And in
                    1938, some months after his dispute with Du Bois, Ransom was elected to the 
                        Indianapolis City
                     Council, serving one term. He served on several mayoral committees, on the Interracial
                    Committee of the Church Federation of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and as a trustee of Bethel A.M.E. Church. At the time of the Du Bois dispute, Ransom
                    was vice-president of the National Negro Business League and a member of the Senate Avenue YMCA
                    board. In the last few years of his life, Ransom served on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Redevelopment Commission, which involved him in postwar slum clearance. In 1946,
                    Flanner House, the city's African-American settlement house, named him the city's
                    "outstanding Negro citizen."24
            
            While Ransom and Du Bois agreed on some questions, their ideological differences were more striking.
                    Ransom, like 
                        Washington
                     and Marcus Garvey (the black nationalist leader of the Universal Negro Improvement
                    Association in the 1920s) deplored the Du 
                  
                     22 Ransom to Du Bois, December 20, 1937, 48:327, Du Bois Papers. See
                            also 
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Courier, January 1, 1938. Emphasis added.
                  
                     23 John Hope 
                                Franklin
                            , From Slavery to Freedom: A History of Negro Americans (5th
                            ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1980), 387; Ransom's entry in Who's Who of the
                                Colored Race, I.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 26, May 7, 1938; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 1, 1946, December 4, 1946, August 7, 1947
                            (Ransom's obituary). The city of 
                                Indianapolis
                             honored his memory in 1991 by giving the name "Ransom Place"
                            to the near downtown neighborhood where he had lived for decades. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 21, 1991. Also see the Ransom entry in 
                                Murray
                            , The Negro Handbook.
               
                     Boisian insistence on the primacy of political protest. And
                    Ransom accepted the basic structure of American capitalism, which Du Bois in the 1930s saw as
                    fundamental to blacks’ oppression. African Americans, Ransom said in his 1924
                    commencement address at the Tuskegee Institute, "make the mistake of over-emphasizing our
                    real and fancied wrongs and under-emphasizing our opportunity in this country." America,
                    Ransom held, was "the land of opportunity and her beckoning hand is extended to black and
                    white alike." He professed an "abiding faith in the Constitution" and
                    "the fair-mindedness of the American white man." The idea that African Americans
                    protested mere "fancied wrongs" would have enraged Du Bois, who was acutely aware
                    of the mob violence, denial of voting rights, and housing and employment discrimination that black
                    people in America suffered. But Ransom felt his views best advanced "the race." As
                    Ransom told the Tuskegee graduates, echoing 
                        Washington
                    , the school's founder, "My message to the white man is, discriminate
                    if you will, but let the test be moral fitness, and not the color of the skin."25
            
            Ransom had likewise opposed Madam Walker's participation in Monroe Trotter's plans
                    to bring African-American protest to the 
                        Paris
                     Peace Conference in 1919. Ransom warned Walker that "You must always bear in
                    mind that you have a large business," unlike Trotter's other associates, who
                    "have nothing." Indeed, "There are many ways in which your business can
                    be circumscribed and hampered, so as to practically put you out of business."26 Ransom voiced the same caution that induced 
                        Washington
                     to shun public political activity as inherently dangerous and unproductive.
            But Ransom lived into the 1930s and 1940s, when African-Americans’ political options
                    became far broader than in 
                        Washington
                    's time. As the New Deal expanded the role of government, black Americans had
                    greater opportunities to demand equality and assert a political role than they had had since the end
                    of Reconstruction. Together the New Deal and the Depression enabled political effectiveness in the
                    public realm to displace private business ownership as the primary basis for African-American
                    leadership on the local level. The new political landscape of the 1930s, historian Walter Weare has
                    noted, allowed local African-American businessmen and erstwhile Bookerites like Ransom "to
                    move from business leadership to civic leadership," a watershed "transition in
                    twentieth century black political leadership."27 Ransom responded to
                    the expanded political and reduced business opportunities of the Depression 
                  
                     25 Ransom's Tuskegee speech was printed in the Garvey
                            movement's newspaper, Negro World, August 2, 1924, on the
                            "magazine page."
                  
                     26 Bundles, Madam C.J. Walker, 98.
                  
                     27 Walter Weare, "Charles 
                                Clinton
                             Spaulding: Middle-class Leadership in the Age of Segregation,"
                            166–90, quotation 168.
               
                     by becoming quite active in Indiana politics. And during the
                    1930s, African Americans comprised a growing portion of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     electorate, which gave black Democrats some leverage within the party. During that
                    decade, historian Emma Lou Thornbrough has noted, "the Negro vote was important in
                    supplying the margin of victory to the Democrats in successive elections."28 Hence Ransom, by joining the Democrats and shifting priorities from business toward
                    political action, typified a major change in black life during the 1930s.
            In 1935 Ransom pressed the Democratic administration of Governor Paul McNutt to support a bill
                    requiring the 
                        Indianapolis
                     school board to provide free transportation for black students forced by the board to
                    attend segregated schools. Ransom complained that some black students had to walk as far as eight
                    miles a day to attend high school. He urged his party to support the bill, though its sponsor was a
                    Republican. Ransom, at once playing the role of a Democratic loyalist and black community leader,
                    added that he did not "think much of the author of this bill" and wondered if it
                    could "be taken away from him" and introduced by a Democrat. But he insisted that
                    it must be passed regardless of whether a Republican or Democrat sponsored it. Indeed, "I
                    will feel it very keenly if it does not" pass, Ransom warned, hoping to seize an advantage
                    from the Democrats’ reliance on black voters. The bill passed.29
            
            In 1938 Ransom spoke at a ground-breaking ceremony for a new addition to Crispus Attucks, the
                    segregated 
                        Indianapolis
                     public high school for black students. He declared that "Education is the life
                    blood of our democracy, and if democracy is to survive, our program of education must ever grow.
                    Colored students, then, must be accorded a full participation in this program."30 Ransom knew that segregated schools greatly limited the vocational and
                    academic preparation black students in 
                        Indianapolis
                     could obtain and thus restricted their lifetime economic opportunities. But while he
                    opposed school segregation, Ransom also knew that segregated schools provided the only public
                    education available to African-American children in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Consequently, he celebrated 
                  
                     28 By 1930 blacks made up over 12 percent of the population of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . James H. Madison, Indiana through Tradition and Change: A History
                                of the Hoosier State and Its People, 1920–1945 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982), 8; and Emma Lou Thornbrough, Since Emancipation: A Short
                                History of Indiana Negroes, 1863–1963, [
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1963], 36.
                  
                     29 Ransom to Pleas Greenlee, March 1, 2, 1935, Box A, Drawer 86,
                            Governor Paul V. McNutt Papers (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records,
                            Indiana State Library and Historical Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); and Thornbrough, Since Emancipation, 37, 56.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 26, 1938.
               
                     the addition to Crispus Attucks, a segregated school.31 Here was a rare instance of political agreement between Du Bois and Ransom in
                    the 1930s: they concurred on the need for a less onerous school segregation.
            As a Democrat, Ransom urged state and local officials to minimize racial exclusion and to employ more
                    African Americans in government jobs and in a greater variety of positions. Ransom claimed that the
                    party's continuation of segregation of state employees by race and its denial of a fair
                    share of patronage appointments to blacks would carry a high electoral cost. Ransom told Governor
                    McNutt and his patronage director, Pleas Greenlee, that Indiana was as bad as the southern states in
                    failing to appoint blacks to high salary state jobs. "The Democrats are making a grave
                    mistake," Ransom said, "in not finding a few places paying reasonable salaries
                    that the negro [sic] can point to with pride." Indiana Republicans
                    boasted that they had appointed more African Americans to well paying jobs than had McNutt. Pleading
                    that "My concern is in the interest of the Democratic Party," Ransom warned that
                    McNutt's administration did "not realize to what extent Republicans are attempting
                    to win back the Negro vote."32
            
            Ransom quietly complained that the State Unemployed Bureau had no positions whatsoever open to black
                    applicants, a form of discrimination not likely, he implied, to be forgotten on election day. Ransom
                    also intervened on behalf of African-American state employees who suffered discrimination on the job
                    and on behalf of those laid off by the state.33 In short, during the 1930s
                    Ransom lobbied to improve blacks‘ occupational and educational opportunities in Indiana,
                    using his position in the Democratic party to plead against the Hoosier system of segregation. But
                    aside from small gestures and a few low-paying jobs, Ransom's efforts in the party achieved
                    little: "the Democratic organization in Indiana during the New Deal era did little that was
                    conspicuous in behalf of its Negro supporters," historian Emma Lou Thornbrough has
                        concluded.34 Yet Ransom appears to have given little thought to other
                    political strategies or economic reforms. Consequently, Ransom stood in sharp contrast to the Du
                    Bois of the 1930s.
            
               
                  31 In 1949 the Indiana legislature banned public school segregation, but
                        the state never enforced this law, so 
                            Indianapolis
                         school officials were able to maintain school segregation until the 1970s. 
                            Indianapolis
                         public schools were segregated in the 1920s. After World War II, as Thornbrough has
                        noted, 
                            Indianapolis
                         was "the largest city in the North with a [de jure]
                        segregated school system." Thornbrough, Since Emancipation,
                        48–69. For post-1949 events, see Emma Lou Thornbrough, "The 
                            Indianapolis
                         School Busing Case," in We the People: Indiana and the 
                                United States
                             Constitution (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987), 69–92.
               
                  32 Ransom to Paul McNutt, March 14, August 6, 1935, McNutt Papers; Ransom
                        to Pleas Greenlee, April 20, March 2, 29, 1935, ibid.
               
                  33 Ransom to Wayne Coy, September 4, 1935, ibid.; Ransom
                        to Greenlee, October 22, November 8, April 20, March 2, 1935, ibid.
               
                  34 Thornbrough, Since Emancipation, 34, 37.
            
            
            
               F.B. RANSOM
                        AT
                        HIS WALKER COMPANY
                        OFFICE Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            During the century's first decade, Du Bois became the one essential figure in the forging of
                    an interracial progressive movement for racial equality in the 
                        United States
                    .35 Du Bois called for full civil and legal equality of the races at
                    the very time that the South was enacting segregationist statutes. A federal judiciary dominated by
                    conservative-activists sanctioned southern states’ denial of voting rights to African
                    Americans, and white mobs were lynching nearly two hundred African Americans per year. Du
                    Bois's proud insistence on blacks’ full civil and legal equality, first voiced
                    when most white Americans believed in their innate "racial" superiority, became
                    the fundamental demand on which the enduring twentieth-century tradition of African-American civil
                    rights protest arose. Du Bois's protests and writings from the first years of the century
                    inspired a small group of white socialists and progressives who founded the National Association for
                    the Advancement of Colored People in 1910. Du Bois worked for the NAACP for twenty-four years,
                    founding and editing its influential magazine, the Crisis.
            At the turn of the century Du Bois had accepted the consensus of the small African-American
                    "middle class" that racial salvation must be achieved primarily through business
                    enterprise. This belief was fully consistent with his original notion of a "Talented Tenth
                    black leadership group.36 As Du Bois challenged Booker T. Washington on
                    questions of political rights and black education, he still believed in the central importance of
                    black business enterprise. Indeed, Du Bois, not 
                        Washington
                    , first conceived of the National Negro Business League, established in 1900.37 But in the early 1930s Du Bois, in one of the major watersheds of his long
                    career, radically altered his belief in collective advancement through the success of
                    "talented" African Americans: without entirely abandoning the idea of an elite
                    black leadership class, he encased it in an idiosyncratic socialist program. For in the 1930s, Du
                    Bois concluded that the now much larger black middle class had failed to rise to the demands of
                    group leadership.
            In the 1930s Du Bois addressed the problems of failed black leadership and the crisis of the
                    Depression by arguing for cooperative African-American businesses and community-controlled schools,
                    hospitals, and other institutions. Each would involve the participation of elite as well as less
                    privileged African Americans. 
                  
                     35 Manning Marable, W.E.B. Du Bois: Black Radical
                                Democrat (
                                Boston
                            , 1986), chapters 3 and 4.
                  
                     36 Du Bois's fullest statement of his "Talented
                            Tenth" theory was his essay of that title, published in The Negro
                                Problem (
                                New York
                            , 1903), a book of essays by leading African Americans. But Du Bois's
                            book The 
                                    Philadelphia
                                 Negro (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1899) had laid out its main argument.
                  
                     37 Louis R. Harlan, Booker T. Washington: The Making of a
                                Black Leader, 1856–1901 (
                                New York
                            , 1972), 266–67.
               
                     These institutions would be staffed and managed by black people
                    and structured to induce elite African Americans to serve "the race" as a whole.
                    Similarly, Du Bois questioned the viability of the NAACP's continued reliance on a middle
                    class leadership and called for a shift of power from the national office to the local branches.
                    While these ideas of black leadership and social class differences were influenced by Marxism, Du
                    Bois's views in the 1930s differed greatly from those of socialists and Marxists, and he
                    forcefully rejected their political strategies.38
            
            In 1934 Du Bois left the NAACP and the Crisis, primarily because he and the
                    NAACP's top leadership no longer agreed on the primacy of civil rights protest in the
                    struggle for racial equality. As the Depression unfolded, Du Bois increasingly argued that economic
                    subordination lay at the root of African-American oppression. He urged the NAACP to adopt his
                    economic program, which envisioned a race-based autonomous socialism for African Americans. This
                    community socialism or "cooperative commonwealth," would, he hoped, unite the
                    talents and labor of all African Americans—businessmen and laborers, teachers and
                    domestics, scholars and sharecroppers—in a common struggle. Such a "Negro Nation
                    within the Nation" would be guided, Du Bois insisted, by the selfless pursuit of the
                    collective good of "the race."39 But the NAACP's
                    leadership refused to alter its civil rights program and rejected Du Bois's economic ideas.
                    It also moved to restrict Du Bois's right to criticize the NAACP in the Crisis. These disputes culminated in Du Bois's resignation from the NAACP in June,
                    1934. Spending the next decade at 
                        Atlanta
                     University, he continued to promote his economic program throughout the 1930s, through
                    lectures, newspaper columns, and other writings.
            Du Bois had long recognized the achievements of the Walker Company. Even his December, 1937, Courier column had praised it for creating "perhaps 13,000 [Negro] jobs:
                    beauty shops and hair pressing parlors, where women unemployed or forced into menial service are
                    able to make a livelihood and approach the status of almost independent entrepreneurs."
                    After Madam Walker's death in 1919, Du Bois wrote a Crisis obituary that
                    praised her as 
                  
                     38 Although he rejected the socialist left and communism in the 1930s,
                            years later, during the Cold War, Du Bois adopted an orthodox Communist politics and became
                            quite close to the party, which he joined in 1961. Thus the 1930s stand as a watershed in Du
                            Bois's intellectual-political route from an elitist to a proletarian theory of
                            African-American leadership.
                  
                     39 Du Bois articulated his 1930s economic-political program in many
                            writings, including: "A Negro Nation within the Nation," Current History, XLII (June, 1935), 265–70; his Crisis editorials in each issue from January, 1934 to June, 1934; his three speeches
                            from the 1930s published in Du Bois, The Education of Black People (
                                New York
                            , 1973); and "The Negro and Social Reconstruction," written in
                            1936 and published in Du Bois, Against Racism: Unpublished Essays, Papers,
                                Addresses, 1887–1961 (Amherst, 1985), 103–58.
               
                     "A Great Woman" who had
                    "transform[ed] a people in a generation."40
            
            In the 1930s, however, Du Bois complained that virtually all African-American businesses, including
                    the Walker firm, had failed to promote the kind of autonomous economic development that he thought
                    essential for African-Americans’ health and survival. The Walker Company had not turned
                    itself into "a cooperative enterprise" promoting "a socialistic mass
                    movement." Business owners, Du Bois charged, had failed to use their "tremendous
                    power" to serve society.41
            
            Du Bois's perspective on the purposes of business enterprise differed radically from that of
                    any successful entrepreneur. He wanted African-American businessmen and women to act as community
                    leaders by converting their privately owned businesses into philanthropic community institutions.
                    Profits from all black-owned businesses should be invested for community purposes, not consumed by
                    individual owners. He believed that most African-American business owners wanted to serve the
                    community while bettering themselves, but typically their pursuit of individual gain undercut their
                    contributions to the community. Consequently, the radical scholar-activist wanted to democratize
                    something that had rarely been subject to democratic governance and hardly existed to serve communal
                    or democratic ends: business enterprise.42
            
            Du Bois had no detailed plan for how his idea of cooperative business enterprise among African
                    Americans could be realized in practice. His vision of socialism-in-one-community was based more on
                    an appreciation of the depths of the crisis facing black America in the Depression than on a
                    realistic assessment of what was politically and economically obtainable. Even the most
                    community-minded black business owners objected to Du Bois's program. To have supported it
                    would have been to abandon their class identity. More crucially, even if black business leaders had
                    embraced Du Bois's economic program, tremendous difficulties stood in the way of
                    implementation. Neither black businessmen nor African Americans as a whole had the capital to
                    finance the type of economic development Du Bois envisioned. This was especially true during the
                    1930s, when the greatest economic crisis in world history prevented countless African Americans from
                    even feeding their families 
                  
                     40 Du Bois, "Madame Walker"; Du Bois, "A
                            Great Woman," Crisis (July, 1919), 131.
                  
                     41 Du Bois, "Madame Walker"; and, Du Bois,
                            "Business as a Public Service," Crisis (November, 1929),
                            374–75, 392.
                  
                     42 Elsa Barkley 
                                Brown
                            , "Womanist Consciousness: Maggie Lena Walker and the Independent Order
                            of Saint Luke," in Micheline R. Malson et al., eds., Black Women in America: Social Science Perspectives (
                                Chicago
                            , 1990), 173–96, for an examination of an important black enterprise
                            that pursued collective goals rather than profits for individual entrepreneurs.
               
                     adequately. Du Bois never demonstrated how an impoverished
                    people could finance the kinds of cooperative businesses he envisioned.
            Yet Du Bois was convinced that his plan was essential for combating black poverty and joblessness,
                    two problems the Depression exacerbated. The Depression not only devastated employment and living
                    standards for African Americans, it also wiped out a generation of black business development
                        overnight.43 Only the advent of widespread, if still inadequate, public
                    relief prevented extensive starvation in the black community. In An American
                    Dilemma, Gunnar Myrdal estimated that in 1935 "around half of all Negro families in
                    the North were on relief."44 By putting most black businessmen out of
                    business, the Depression destroyed the credibility of African-American businessmen as a leadership
                    class.
            Economic collapse also convinced Du Bois that a drastic restructuring of the economic life of black
                    America was inevitable. Du Bois's economic program was an attempt to shape this
                    restructuring. Satisfied that capitalism could not provide even the bare necessities of life for
                    all, Du Bois in the early 1930s concluded that economic depression was, together with racial
                    prejudice, forcing African Americans to intolerable levels of poverty and joblessness. Du Bois
                    feared that many black people would be forever left outside the labor market and below the level of
                    subsistence unless African Americans united in an extraordinary effort to save themselves. Du Bois
                    forcefully argued that a cooperative economy in the black community was the only way for African
                    Americans to resolve their economic crisis and to survive as a people.
            In the very Courier column in which he apologized to the Walker Company, Du Bois
                    pressed his economic program: "There is no greater service that can be rendered to a group
                    than the service of business men." "Nevertheless," he added,
                    "perhaps the greatest mistakes of our industrial society have arisen among these servants
                    of the public." Therefore, society must "save and encourage" business
                    owners by regulating "their activities." Du Bois judged that this would
                    "be accomplished in the future by the gradual socialization" of business and
                    wealth. Moreover, "the movement toward socialized business is starting throughout the
                    world" and "American Negro businessmen ought to lead in this and not 
                  
                     43 Of over a hundred African American-owned banks founded between 1890
                            and 1929, only twelve survived in 1936 and over half of all "black retail merchants
                            and savings and loan associations failed in the 1930s." 
                                Harvard
                             Sitkoff, A New Deal for Blacks (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 253.
                  
                     44 Gunnar Myrdal, An American Dilemma (
                                New York
                            , 1944), 197, 206. In the Depression, many employers fired blacks and replaced
                            them with whites. In 
                                Indianapolis
                            , such racial job competition resulted in white school teachers being given
                            preference, over a large number of unemployed African-American teachers, for jobs in
                            all-black public schools. Ransom to Greenlee, November 8, 1935, McNutt Papers.
               
                     follow." Thus, even as he granted Ransom an apology,
                    Du Bois still pushed for African-American cooperative business enterprise—the very point
                    on which his economic program most directly challenged Ransom.45
            
            For Du Bois, "socialization" of the economy meant democratic and popular control
                    over society's wealth and investments. African Americans, lacking a highly stratified class
                    structure, were, Du Bois argued, uniquely well-suited to pioneer a communal socialistic economy.
                    Such a radical change in African-American economic life required, Du Bois said, the active support
                    of African-American business leaders. This, to Du Bois, was the real tragedy of firms like the
                    Walker Company: despite remaining in black hands, they had not built an independent or prosperous
                    economy for the black community. Nor had they promoted what Du Bois considered a meaningful economic
                    education for African Americans.
            Almost alone among radical black intellectuals in the 1930s, Du Bois saw the prospect of a socialist
                    America as highly problematic for African Americans. A successful socialist movement, comprised of
                    America's white working class majority, Du Bois feared, could be just as racially
                    exclusionary as American capitalism. Nor did Du Bois, unlike most radical intellectuals during the
                    Depression, see an interracial labor movement as a viable strategy for African Americans. For
                    decades he applauded efforts to unite black and white workers, but in the 1930s Du Bois concluded
                    that such efforts were quite unlikely to overcome whites‘ racial bias.
                    African-Americans’ sole choice, he wrote privately in 1933, was "annihilation by
                    American capitalism piecemeal or racial organization in self-defense." Since
                    "[anti-]Negro prejudice still lives," Du Bois argued, there was no chance that
                    "Communism" or trade unionism could resolve the economic crisis in ways favorable
                    to African Americans.46 But despite his pessimistic view of a hypothetical
                    socialist future in the 
                        United States
                    , Du Bois in the 1930s believed that constructing socialism-in-one-community was
                    African-Americans’ best hope of salvation.
            Rejecting the labor strategy of the left and placing no hope in restored capitalist prosperity, Du
                    Bois sought an autonomous and socialistic "Negro Nation within the Nation." This
                    approach purported to require nothing from whites or institutions controlled by 
                  
                     45 Du Bois, "me. C.J. Walker Manufacturing Company," 
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Courier, January 23, 1938. This was Du Bois's last column in the
                                Courier. Du Bois's "farewell" column was
                            written simply to settle his dispute with Ransom. However, it also touched upon several
                            other topics, in order that, as Du Bois told the newspaper's manager, Ira Lewis,
                            his corrected statement would "not look too much like free advertising"
                            for the Walker Company. Robert L. Vann to Du Bois, December 1, 1937, 48:039–040,
                            Du Bois Papers; Du Bois to Vann, December 3, 1937, ibid.; Du Bois to
                            Lewis, January 11, 1938, 49:425, ibid.
                  
                     46 Du Bois to George Streator, June 23, 1933, ibid.
               
                     whites. A cooperative black economy must be as independent of
                    the larger society as possible, Du Bois felt, because white Americans excluded blacks from all
                    economic opportunities. Du Bois imagined an autonomous black economy based on consumers'
                    cooperation, able to accumulate enough capital to fund adequate housing, employment, and health care
                    for the black community. As a practical response to the economic crisis African Americans faced in
                    the Depression, Du Bois's scheme was sorely lacking. But if viewed as part of a debate on
                    the possibilities of African-American freedom and security in America, then Du Bois's 1930s
                    ideas stand as a telling critique of what he thought were the equally feeble efforts of conservative
                    businessmen, liberal reformers, and Marxists to address racial oppression and poverty in the 
                        United States
                    .
            Although Ransom never formally commented on Du Bois's economic program, he surely shared the
                    disdain for it expressed by other black entrepreneurs. African-American businessmen saw Du
                    Bois's scheme as a far-fetched and utopian attack on their own enterprise and way of life.
                    As Ransom wrote in his open letter, "I ask you why, Dr. Du Bois, writers such as you seek
                    always to decry and misrepresent Negro business?"47
            
            Ransom and Du Bois each believed in racial solidarity and in group leadership, but they sharply
                    disagreed on what goals should be pursued through that solidarity and leadership. Their political
                    animosities shaped the vehemence of Ransom's protest of Du Bois's factual mistake
                    and contributed to Du Bois's reluctance to admit error. Yet the Du Bois-Ransom dispute of
                    1937–1938, while arising from profound disagreements on the most basic questions
                    confronting African Americans in the 1930s, never matured into a real debate over political ideas or
                    strategies. Neither Ransom nor Du Bois addressed one another on fundamental questions of
                    African-American economic strategy, political leadership, or business enterprise. Apparently neither
                    Du Bois nor Ransom saw their dispute as an opportunity to attract political support.
            Du Bois, however, did campaign for his economic program during the 1930s. Ironically, his dispute
                    with Ransom stemmed from Du Bois's rebuttal of an independent Marxist writer, Benjamin
                    Stolberg, who, writing in The Nation, had blasted Madam Walker's
                    "hair unkinking process" as an "anthropological insult." Du Bois
                    replied in the Courier that "it is no more an ‘anthropological
                    insult’ for one person to have hair straightened than for another to have his hair
                    curled." But Du Bois's real dispute with Stolberg involved far deeper issues of
                    economics and politics. Stolberg held the view, common among American Marxists of the 1930s, that
                    "labor consciousness" alone could save "the colored world" but
                    that African 
                  
                     47 Ransom to Du Bois, December 20, 1937, 48:327, ibid.
               
                     Americans’ "bourgeois" ideology
                    retarded the black working class from seeing this Marxian truth.48
            
            In Du Bois's view, Stolberg underestimated the depth and power of racial bias among white
                    Americans and slighted the constructive value of African-American solidarity. But Du Bois respected
                    Stolberg as a fellow participant in the on-going and multi-sided 1930s debate on the economic future
                    of the African-American people. Replying to Stolberg in several of his December, 1937, Courier columns, Du Bois argued that his own program of a racebased economic strategy was
                    superior to both the Marxist panacea of Stolberg and the capitalism-as-usual approaches of
                    African-American business. Rejecting Stolberg's attack on Walker, Du Bois made his own very
                    different criticisms, thereby using the Walker Company to polemicize for his economic program.
                    Ransom responded with his "open letter" to Du Bois.
            However, Ransom addressed none of the broad issues debated by Du Bois and Stolberg. Nor, evidently,
                    did Ransom ever participate in this far-reaching intellectual debate on the political and economic
                    future of black Americans. The contentious ideas of radicals, intellectuals, trade unionists,
                    communists, and socialists of all types did not engage the Indiana businessman. In the 1930s these
                    groups constituted an important and sizable milieu, but Ransom had little contact with them. Ransom
                    was preoccupied with his own responses to the black economic and leadership crisis of the Depression
                    and with his pursuit of political opportunities opened up by the New Deal. Consequently, once Du
                    Bois publicly admitted that the Walker Company had not "fallen into the
                    hands of white capitalists," Ransom saw further exchanges with the radical scholar as
                    pointless. Likewise, Du Bois deemed a potential debate with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     businessman as mattering infinitely less than the debates over strategy already raging
                    on the left and among African-American intellectuals.
            
               
                  48 Benjamin Stolberg, "Minority Jingo," The
                            Nation, CXLV (October 23, 1937), 437–39; Du Bois, "Madam
                        Walker."
            
         
         
         
            "… The True Definition of War": The Civil War Diary of DeWitt C.
                    Markle
            
                    Edited by Erich L. Ewald⋆
               
                
            DeWitt C. Markle was twenty-four years old when he marched to war with the 57th Indiana Volunteer
                    Infantry. Through a combination of luck and the civic conscience of a 
                        Madison County
                     resident a fragment of Markle's diary of war experiences has survived. This
                    remnant, printed below, contains periodic entries for early January to late September, 1863, and
                    suggests that it may have been part of an extensive journal. The twenty small leaves that did
                    survive of this diary were discovered inserted between the pages of an old book purchased at an
                    auction by James Reed of Anderson, Indiana. Reed generously donated the manuscript to the Indiana
                    Room of the Anderson Public library where it is now on file. Although the manuscript lacked any
                    signature that would directly identify the diarist, there are enough clues of known residents and
                    place names to make identification possible.1
            
            DeWitt C. Markle was the nephew of the founder of Markleville, a small town in 
                        Madison County
                    , and the son of a prominent "War Democrat," Adam Markle. The Markles
                    appear to have been staunch Unionists; indeed, early 
                        Madison County
                     historian Samuel Harden wrote that when DeWitt was leaving for the front Adam told him,
                    "Were I but young enough, I would go with you."2 Little is
                    known of Markle's early life beyond the personal and family information 
                  
                     ⋆ Erich L. Ewald is a freelance writer with degrees in
                            history from Wittenberg University and Ball State University. He is a labor relations
                            representative for Inland Fisher Guide Division of General Motors.
                  
                     1 Markle's entry concerning his return home to Markleville
                            led the editor to examine all Adams Township volunteers listed in Phyllis Hart Leedom,
                            comp., 
                        
                                    Madison County
                                , Indiana Civil War Soldiers (n.p., Anderson, Indiana, 1981). The
                            reference to Joseph Huston indicated that the diarist was a member of the 57th Indiana.
                            Process of elimination and the comparison of known service dates narrowed the search down to
                            Markle. Final confirmation was received in the entries which mention two of
                            Markle's sisters.
                  
                     2 For a biographical sketch of Adam Markle and additional information
                            regarding the entire Markle family, see Samuel Harden, Those I Have Met, or
                                Boys in Blue: In Which is Remembered Those I Have Met Along the Road of Life (n.p.,
                            Anderson, Indiana, 1888), 299–302.
               
                     contained in the notes below. From his entries he appears to be
                    a most typical northern recruit, full of patriotism and Christian piety, but not without humor.
            Markle entered into service with the rest of his regiment in early October, 1861. The regiment
                    trained briefly at the old fairgrounds in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, before transferring to Camp Dumont in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The 57th moved by rail to 
                        Jeffersonville
                     on Christmas Eve and was incorporated into General Don Carlos Buell's Army of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    .3 The regiment participated with Buell in an arduous winter
                    campaign in Kentucky and marched to Grant's relief at 
                        Shiloh
                     in April, 1862. The regiment was later engaged at the Battle of Perryville during
                    Bragg's invasion of Kentucky in late 1862.
            What remains of the dairy begins on January 2, 1863, as the Battle of Stones River (or
                            
                  Murfreesboro, Tennessee
               ) is reaching its bloody climax. The early extant entries
                    reveal that Markle is among the many wounded huddled around fires in the cold winter rain, awaiting
                    the surgeons. Readers discover in subsequent entries that Markle was one of the lucky ones whose
                    limb did not require amputation. The entries descend from this dramatic opening to more routine
                    descriptions regarding his treatment in 
                        Nashville
                     and his removal to a hospital in New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana. The bulk of the diary provides an intimate glimpse of Markle's slow,
                    painful recuperation. His convalescence period coincides with a dramatic shift in the treatment and
                    employment of disabled soldiers returning from the front.
            From Fort Sumter to mid-1863, the North proved itself woefully unprepared for the magnitude of the
                    war. Large numbers of combat casualties and an even larger number of soldiers disabled by illness
                    and disease poured back into Indiana in direct proportion to the war's escalation. The
                    evolution to total war was much quicker than the North's capacity to react. Consequently,
                    the first two years of the conflict were marked by a tremendous waste of available manpower. Because
                    the North was unable to provide sufficient treatment facilities—similar to the one at New 
                        Albany
                     described by Markle—the disabled were often given wholesale 
                  
                     3 Indicative of the high spirits of the men of the 57th as they rushed
                            to the front is a letter from 
                                Delaware County
                             recruit Joseph VanMatre to Augustus L. Sayford, December 24, 1861: "We
                            are all well at present and we are having some of the highest times you ever saw. While I am
                            writing you, Billy Graves, Elie Conner, and John Rinker is wrestling and George Baker is
                            writing a letter … I think if they would send us down south and let us at the
                            rebels, we would clean them out and return home in a few days. But, never will I come home
                            again as long as there is a rebel to fight." The letter is from a collection of
                            letters made available to this editor by Melvin Sayford of 
                                Middletown
                            , Indiana. All information concerning the 57th Indiana's service record
                            is derived from Asbury L. Kerwood, Annals of the Fifty-Seventh Regiment Indiana
                                Volunteers; Marches, Battles, and Incidents of Army Life (
                        Dayton, Ohio
                     , 1868), passim.
               
                     discharges from their regiments. The resulting depletion of
                    manpower was so alarming that various half-measures were adopted in an effort to utilize the
                    disabled in secondary assignments on the home front. By a process of bureaucratic evolution the
                    Veteran Reserve Corps (more familiarly known as the "Invalid Corps") was born on
                    April 28, 1863—roughly midway through Markle's convalescence. Markle's
                    many references to delays, examinations, furloughs, and reexaminations reveal the many obstacles
                    that had to be overcome before the Veteran Reserve Corps accomplished its purpose of fully utilizing
                    disabled soldiers.
            In his postwar report, Indiana's Adjutant General William Henry Harrison Terrell explained
                    that the disabled were divided into two main categories: those capable of carrying muskets and those
                    so severely disabled as to be capable of performing only light clerical duties. Markle's
                    wound was severe enough, evidently, to place him in the latter category. Of great interest is
                    Terrell's description of the Veteran Reserve Corps members’ duties. Their
                    assignments "consisted principally in guarding rebel prisoners, assisting the Provost
                    Marshals in enforcing the enrollment and draft, arresting deserters, escorting recruits, drafted men
                    and substitutes to the front, keeping order at home, and crushing conspiracies of rebel sympathizers
                    in the North… ." This last comment may explain Markle's occasional
                    references to inspecting "rebel mail." While stationed in 
                        Indianapolis
                     Markle resided, at least temporarily, at the "Soldiers'
                    Home." The home, established in 1862, was erected to provide lodging and hospital care to
                    soldiers passing through the city.4
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Jan 2nd5
                        
                        To-day there has be[en] very hard fighting esp[ecial]ly P.M. The hospi[tal] tents are
                                    full and a good many are lying ou[t] on the ground in the rain by fires, which is
                                    the best that can be don[e] at present. Many of the wounded have died and their
                                    bodies are lying aroun[d] among the tents. The surgeons are very busy dressing 
                              
                                 4 For the best synopsis of the Veteran Reserve Corps
                                            and its role in Indiana see William Henry Harrison Terrell, Indiana in the War of the Rebellion: Vol. I, Report
                                                of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (1869; reprint, Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XLI; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1960), 100–105, 454–58.
                              
                                 5 In an effort to provide the most authentic
                                            reproduction possible, DeWitt C. Markle's account is presented here
                                            much as it was written. However, some of the diary's leaves were
                                            damaged and portions of the script unreadable. In those instances brackets
                                            appear around words and letters which are conjectural. Ellipses appear where
                                            the manuscript was torn and words missing.
                           
                                     wounds & ampu[ta]ting limbs. Our
                                    surg[eon] (Hosteter) has been o[rdered] to make out a repo[rt of] the wounded in
                                    [our] division.6
                        
                        [Jan t]he 3rd 1863
                        [T]here has been consid[e]rable fighting to-day and the rebels have been again
                                    repulsed [&] after dark they are driven from a portion of their
                                    entrenchments.
                        Sun. the 4th, A.M.
                        It is rumored that the rebels have fallen back & evacuated 
                                        Murfreesboro
                                    , and a [p]ortion of our troops [ha]ve occupied the [pl]ace. P.M. It is
                                    … stated to be a … in camp here. And the battle is ended after
                                    five days fighting, with a heavy loss on both sides.
                        Jan. the 9th 1863
                        Early this morning the ambulances are brought to the hospitals to be loaded with sick
                                    & wounded for 
                                        Nashville
                                    . Jos. Huston Myself & another man (a stranger to me) occupy one
                                    ambulance and after a rather uncomfortable rid[e] of about 30 miles we arriv[e] at
                                    Hospital No. 21 in … about sunset. This is the M.E. Church on.
                                    … It contains about 120 patients when full. have pretty good
                                    accomodations for the sick. A good many died during my stay at this place, among
                                    them my friend Jos. Huston.7
                        
                        On the 16th of Feb. I in company with many others, (both sick & wounded) are
                                    taken down to the river and placed on board the steamer Jno. Roesbeck [a]nd the 17th
                                    A.M. begin [to] descend the 
                                        Cumberland
                                     …, at night we lay up [near Fort] Donelson About 3.
                                    O'clock P.M. the 18th we arrive at Smithland which is at the mouth of the
                                    cum. R— and awhile after night started up the 
                                        Ohio
                                    , the 19th arrived at 
                                        Evansville
                                     & was detained several hours on acc't of a heavy gale.
                                    And the 21st inst. arrived at New 
                                        Albany
                                    , Ind. Nothing of importance occurred during the trip. Our rations was
                                    very scant & poor accommodations generally on the boat. I was taken to
                                    Hospital No. 1, said to be the best one of the eleven which is in the city. While
                                    staying there good attention was paid the sick & wounded. Our surgeon (A.S.
                                    Green) was a Citizen and appeared willing to do all he could for those who needed
                                    his attentions. 
                              
                                 6 The regiment was heavily engaged at Stones River and
                                            suffered 75 casualties out of 350 men engaged. The adjutant
                                            general's synopsis of the regiment's service record is
                                            reprinted in Ann Turner, Guide to Indiana Civil War
                                            Manuscripts (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1965), 177–79.
                              
                                 7 Huston died on February 5, 1863. See Leedom, 
                                    
                                                    Madison County
                                                , Indiana Civil War Soldiers, 32. Two other Adams
                                            Township soldiers mortally wounded at Stones River were Wesley Seward and
                                            Jeremiah Gray.
                           
                                     The fare I presume was about as good as is
                                    furnished at any of the hospitals of the U.S. Such as a soldier should never
                                    complain of. Was granted passes at almost any time during the day to go about the
                                    City. Maj. Fry cammanded the post. He had no authority and granted no furloughs.
                                    About the middle of May I got so that I began to bear some little wait on my wounded
                                    leg, and by the 1st of June I could get around with the assistence of one crutch.
                                    The 5th of June, was transferred to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . Was taken to Jeffer-sonville in an ambulance from thence to
                                    Ind'p's by R.R. where I arrived a little after dark. Walked from
                                    Depot to the Soldier's Home where I remained until the 12th inst. when I
                                    obtained a furlough for thirty days and went home, having been absent from home 18
                                    months & 3 days. I found my friends comparatively speaking enjoying the
                                    blessings of peace. Who but the Soldier knows the true definition of
                                    "War"? The time passed swiftly & very agreeably away until
                                    the 11th of July when I reported again at Ind'p's. and on
                                    examination was pronounced unfit for duty and the 15th inst I rec'd another
                                    furlough for twenty days and returned home again. The time expiring the 5th of Aug I
                                    again reported at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , but on account of so many coming in before me could not be examined
                                    that day, so I had to report at the Soldier's Home.8
                        
                        Aug. 26th
                        Was detailed to clerk in the Post Adj't's Office at Head quarters
                                    in the city. Copied reports from the Soldiers Home all day, and at night felt very
                                    tired and bones ached considerable.
                        Aug. 27.
                        Went to H. Quarters and copied reports again but felt rather bad, had a slight chill
                                    and at night some fever. Got a place to board in the City near H.Q.
                        [Aug.] 28
                        Still worked at copying reports, had the Head ache very bad, ate some dinner, towards
                                    night went to the Home, had a chill and very high fever. Dr gave me some medicine.
                        
                           
                              8 The Soldier's Home progressed ‘by
                                        stages from a single building, located in a grove north of the 
                                            Terre Haute
                                         Railroad depot in 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , to a much more elaborate facility. At the time of
                                        Markle's recuperation, the Soldier's Home consisted of three
                                        large buildings incorporating barracks, mess hall, and hospital. For more
                                        detailed information see Terrell, Indiana in the War of
                                        Rebellion, 454–58.
                        
                        
                        
                           PAGES
                                        FROM DEWITT C. MARKLE'S DIARY
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           Courtesy Anderson Public Library, Anderson, Indiana
                        
                        
                        Sunday Morning
                        Aug. 30
                        Dr. took my name to send me to the Hospital but I begged off, and did not go. Walked
                                    down to my boarding house and ate quite a hearty dinner having ate no supper or
                                    breakfast. Came back to the Home, wrote a few lines, and went into church at 3.
                                    o'clock P.M. commenced chilling and soon had to get up and go out. 
                                        Text
                                     1st Peter 3rd chap. 15th Verse. Had a very hard chill, and also high
                                    fever 'till late at night. ate no supper, and did not sleep very well.
                        [Aug.] 31
                        Arose from my couch about 7 1/2 o'clock, felt rather weak and bad, ate no
                                    breakfast. Went down to H'dq'rs about 9. O'clock and
                                    worked 'till nearly 11. when I went up to the Home to be mustered for pay.
                                    Waited 'till about 2. P.M. when the mustering Officer came and mustered us.
                                    Took four (4) doces of Quinine 1 1/2 hours apart to day. Did not go back to work
                                    any. P.M. Chill came on some 2 hours later, did not shake much, but had severe
                                    headache and high fever.
                        Sept. 1. 1863
                        Ate no breakfast, but Had pretty good appetite for dinner. Felt rather bad all day.
                                    Could not sleep much at night, but had no chill. Worked all day.
                        [Sept.] 2
                        Arose little after 5. O'clock and went to my boarding house for breakfast,
                                    ate quite hearty, excepting the headache felt pretty well. Worked as usual, could
                                    not sleep much at night.
                        [Sept.] 3
                        Went down again to breakfast, did pretty well during the day, had the headache some.
                                    At night when I went up to The Soldiers Home I found Peter Julius there.9 Had heard I was sick and came down to see me. Run about the
                                    city some with him at night, then went to the Home & went to bed and he went
                                    to a Hotel.
                        
                           
                              9 Peter Julius married DeWitt's sister Sarah. For
                                        a short biographical sketch see Harden, Those I Have Met, or Boys
                                            in Blue, 69–70.
                        
                        
                        Sept. 4.
                        We met at Head Quarters about 6. O'clock and he took breakfast with me, then
                                    took a stroll through the City, and I returned to work till noon when he came in and
                                    took dinner, after which we walked to the Depot and he went out on the 2.
                                    O'clock Train and I went to Head Quarters.
                        Sept. 5
                        Felt very well. Copied reports in the A.M. and inspected rebel mail in the P.M. Just
                                    at night got a leave of absence of the Post Adj't. (in whose office I work)
                                    until the 7th.
                        12. O'clock. M.
                        got aboard the 8. O'clock train and arrived at Pendleton a little before 10.
                                    O'clock where I found Sister Hat. M.I. [Maury?] & cousin Harris
                                    awaiting for me. Got to take a buggy ride with them to Markleville, where we arrived
                                    12. O'clock at night. All went in to sister Sarah's, had supper
                                    and after chatting awhile took a walk down the pike, got back home & went to
                                    bed a little after 2. O'clock.10
                        
                        Sept. 6.
                        Went to Sunday School at Markleville in the A.M. After dinner went to Mr.
                                    Davis' for a walk with Miss J. Swain. Just at night went to see my
                                    — Intended — of course, had a very agreeable time with Mr. Joe
                                    and his Intended, returned home about 2. O'clock
                        Sept. [?]
                        Packed my trunk quite early & about 8. O'clock started for
                                    Pendleton. Rode down with J. Booram in buggy.11 Left there on
                                    the 10. O'clock train Arrived at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     12.15 P.M. Went up to dinner, after which I went to the office to work.
                                    Found my desks strewn with Rebel Mail for inspection. Also found a morning report
                                    from Soldiers Home of some ten pages of "Fools Cap" to Copy. In
                                    the evening went to the Home & got me some quilts and slept in the office
                                    for the first time. The 6th being a day appointed by the President for Thanksgiving
                                    & Prayer, there was no business transacted. Spent the day at the
                                    Soldier's Home.
                        
                           
                              10 This entry refers to two of Markle's sisters,
                                        Sarah and Harriet (b. 1835 and 1833, respectively). Ibid.,
                                        300.
                           
                              11 John Booram was a prominent farmer in Adams Township.
                                            Ibid., 236–38.
                        
                        
                        The 7th went to Head Quarters in the morning. Got an order for examination, waited
                                    'till noon came up to the Home got dinner, went back, was examined, not
                                    being considered fit for field duty was assigned to the Invalid Corps.
                        The 8th went to the U.S. Commissary and drew Subsistence money while absent on
                                    furlough.
                        The 9th, Aug. 1863 [sic]
                        Not very well. Helped police awhile in morning after which read awhile, &
                                    slept a little.
                        P.M.
                        Wrote a letter to John Edgar. attended church at Soldier's Home. Text the 11
                                    chap. 1st Verse of Heb. and then wrote a little. From this time to the 15th inst. I
                                    spent at the Soldier's Home doing some light duty but generally getting a
                                    pass each day and strolling about town a few hours.
                        The 15th P.M. I got a pass for two days and at night got aboard the 8.
                                    O'clock train. Went up to Pendleton, arrived there a little before 10.
                                    O'cl'k got a chance to ride about three miles, then walked the
                                    rest of the way home (four miles) was very tired, got home 12.20 A.M.
                        Sun 16
                        Tried to climb in the window & go to bed but made to much noise, roused the
                                    folks, had to be let in at the door and give an account of myself.
                        The 16th went up to the Baptist Association near Collier's Church12 There was quite a large congregation, did not get to hear
                                    much of the preaching, but had a very good time. Returned home about 2.
                                    o'clock. Spent the rest of the day chatting with the neighbors. Just at
                                    night went down the 
                                        Pike
                                     as usual and had a "social chat" with—yes.
                        Well Monday A.M. the 17th went down to Pendleton, took the 10. O'clock train
                                    for Ind'p's where I arrived 12.20 P.M. came up to the 
                              
                                 12 This is a reference to the Union Baptist Church. It
                                            was familiarly known as the "Collier Church because the
                                            congregation was originally organized at the home of Mrs. Rebecca Collier in
                                            1834. The Collier residence was located one and a half miles southeast of
                                            the present town' of Markleville. The mid-September entries do not
                                            correspond with the correct dates. Markle states that September 16 was a
                                            Sunday, for example, when in fact the 16th was a Wednesday. This suggests
                                            that Markle had a tendency to periodically "catch up" his
                                            daily entries at some relatively distant date from the events.
                           
                                     Soldiers Home, passed inside the lines all
                                    right where I spent most of the time 'till the 20th inst. at which time the
                                    "War Democrats["] held a Convention in the City, and several of my
                                    friends being present I procured a pass and spent the day in the City with them. At
                                    night returned to the Home where I spent several lonesome days indeed
                     
                  
               
                
            Markle was honorably discharged in 1864 and returned to Markleville where he resumed his prewar
                    career as clerk and farmer. He died on March 14, 1911, at the age of seventy-three.13
            
            
               
                  13 A short obituary is to be found in the Anderson Morning
                            Herald, March 16, 1911.
            
         
         
         
            William Herndon's Indiana Oral History Project, 1865
            
                    Rodney O. Davis⋆
               
                
            The most important event in William Herndon's life, it has been said without too much
                    exaggeration, was the death of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    .1 The national apotheosis of 
                        Lincoln
                     that followed his assassination was an event in which Herndon shared. As 
                        Lincoln
                    's last and by far longest-tenured law partner in 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , Herndon was immediately perceived as having a special authority that
                    derived from long and close association with him. Almost immediately upon 
                        Lincoln
                    's assassination, Herndon was approached by writers and interviewers as one
                    with special knowledge about the martyred president's life and career. Herndon responded as
                    best he could but of course knew that there were many questions that he could not answer, for his
                    close contact with 
                        Lincoln
                     dated only from the late 1830s in 
                        Springfield
                    . Encouraged by such friends as Horace White of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune and by the example of early biographers such as Josiah Holland and Joseph
                    Barrett, Herndon seems to have concluded before 
                        Lincoln
                     was two months in his grave to write his own memories of 
                        Lincoln
                    . He would fortify those recollections with interviews of 
                        Lincoln
                    's associates in 
                        Springfield
                     and elsewhere and perhaps with some investigation into 
                        Lincoln
                    's early life through correspondence with those who had known 
                        Lincoln
                     in his earlier homes in Kentucky and Indiana. In the process he conducted what Charles
                    B. Strozier has called one of the first oral history projects in America.2
            
            
               
                  ⋆ Rodney O. Davis is a professor of history at Knox College,
                                
                     Galesburg, Illinois
                  . With Professor Douglas Wilson, he is presently
                        co-editing the Herndon-Weik informant materials.
               
                  1 David Donald, 
                     
                                Lincoln
                            's Herndon (
                            New York
                        , 1948), 167.
               
                  2 Charles B. Strozier, 
                     
                                Lincoln
                            's Quest for Union: Public and Private Meanings (
                            New York
                        , 1981), xvi. Though historians have a particularly acute understanding of memory
                        and its pitfalls, they also in recent years have accommodated that understanding to a growing
                        appreciation of the evidence of oral history, which, as in the case of the reminiscences that
                        Herndon collected, frequently provides information that is otherwise irretrievable. See Ronald
                        J. Grele, "On Using Oral History Collections: An Introduction," Journàl of American History, LXXIV (September, 1987), 570–78;
                        David Thelen, "Memory and American History," ibid., LXXV
                        (March, 1989), 1117–29; David M. Oshinsky, "Oral History: Playing by the
                        Rules," ibid., LXXVII (September, 1990), 609–614.
            
            
            In fact, Herndon never wrote the biography to which he had finally committed himself, but he
                    contributed significantly to two books that were heavily based on the materials he collected in
                    preparation for it.3 And those materials have been invaluable for 
                        Lincoln
                     researchers ever since. That this is especially true for the formative period of 
                        Lincoln
                    's life which was spent in 
                        Spencer County
                    , Indiana, has long been acknowledged by 
                        Lincoln
                     scholars, either overtly or through frequent citation.4
            
            Of 
                        Lincoln
                    's early life before 
                        New Salem
                     and 
                        Springfield
                     Herndon initially seems to have known very little beyond what 
                        Lincoln
                     had told him about his parents and his upbringing. About 
                        Lincoln
                    's youth in Indiana, Herndon seems only to have known that 
                        Lincoln
                     had lived in 
                        Spencer County
                     with his family before coming to Illinois in 1830, and even that information could have
                    been acquired through 
                        Lincoln
                    's campaign autobiographical statements to Jesse Fell and John Locke Scripps as
                    well as from 
                        Lincoln
                    's own lips.5 At the outset of his quest Herndon had no
                    clue as to where 
                        Lincoln
                     had lived in 
                        Spencer County
                    , nor did he know who to turn to there for information. Early in his data gathering, on
                    June 5, 1865, he addressed a letter, essentially in the blind, to 
                        Rockport
                    , to "some good Union lawyer," apparently inquiring at the county seat
                    about the location of the 
                        Lincoln
                     home and the names of good sources of information on that period of 
                        Lincoln
                    's life. That letter fell into the hands of James W. Wartmann, an attorney, who
                    responded three days later to tell Herndon of the recent deaths of two men of significant influence
                    on the young 
                        Lincoln
                    , that in the field at 
                        Atlanta
                     of Colonel William Jones, "for whom Mr 
                        Lincoln
                    
                    clerked," and of the passing only a few weeks earlier of Josiah Crawford,
                    erstwhile owner of a famous copy of Mason Locke Weems's Life of 
                            Washington
                        
               , which 
                        Lincoln
                     had borrowed.6 Soon after, in another letter, Wartmann advised
                    Herndon that Nathaniel Grigsby, John W. La-mar, David Turnham, and William Wood could afford Herndon
                    what he needed; they were "reliable men" who lived near Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                    's old home. In Wartmann's strongly partisan scale of priorities,
                        
                  
                     3 Ward Hill Lamon, The Life of Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1872); William H. Herndon and Jesse Weik, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                : The True Story of a Great Life (
                                Chicago
                            , 1889).
                  
                     4 Albert J. Beveridee. Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                . 1809–1858 (2 vols.. 
                                Boston
                            . 1928). I. vii, 38–99; James G. Raidall, 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 the President (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1945), I, '6: 7n; Louis A. Warren, 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                's Youth (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1959), passim.
                  
                     5 Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                             to Jesse Fell, Enclosing Autobiography, December 20, 1859, in The
                                Collected Works of Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                     , comp. Roy P. Basler (8 vols., 
                                New Brunswick
                            , N.J., 1953), III, 511–12;, Autobiography written for John L.
                            Scripps, [June, 1860], ibid., IV, 60–67.
                  
                     6 James W. Wartmann to Herndon, June 8, 1865, ms. 2158, Herndon-Weik
                            Collection (Library of Congress). For further information on Wartmann, see History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                , Indiana (
                        Madison,
                                    Wisc
                     ., 1889), 198; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal News, July 2, 1917; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Courier, July 3, 1917.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM HERNDON Courtesy Illinois State Historical
                            Library, 
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     .
               
                     to be "reliable" was to be Republican in
                    politics, which these men were.7 By this time, late in June, Herndon was also in
                    touch with John B. Rowbotham, a 
                        Cincinnati
                     artist who had been commissioned to produce drawings for Barrett's 
                        Lincoln
                     biography. Rowbotham had already visited Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    , and he gave Herndon some more 
                        Spencer County
                     names; however, these were not always accurately rendered nor of people still
                        living.8 By July, probably on account of the Wartmann connection, Herndon
                    was in contact by letter with his first actual Indiana informant who had known 
                        Lincoln
                    , Nathaniel Grigsby, brother of Aaron Grigsby who had married 
                        Lincoln
                    's sister Sarah.9
            
            Eventually Herndon decided to see this early 
                        Lincoln
                     country himself, but not until early autumn of 1865 was he able to find time to make
                    the trip to 
                        Spencer County
                    . He had discovered that 
                        Lincoln
                    's stepmother, Sarah Bush 
                        Lincoln
                    , still lived in Coles County, 
                        Illinois
                    , as did Dennis Hanks, 
                        Lincoln
                    's second cousin, who had already told Herndon a good bit of what he remembered about the Lincolns in both Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    .10 Herndon proposed then to combine a trip to southern Indiana with
                    one to eastern 
                        Illinois
                    . On the road at last, on September 8 in Coles County he interviewed Dennis Hanks again
                    and then elicited a memorable and to the contemporary reader still moving statement from Mrs.
                        Lincoln.11 He then set out for 
                        Spencer County
                    , on a less than 300-mile trip that seems to have required three days to accomplish.
                    Probably most of it was by rail. A route from 
                        Charleston
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                     to 
                        Evansville
                     was feasible by that time, with the last lap after 
                        Evansville
                     undoubtedly the hardest; one would presume by Ohio River steamer
                    to 
                        Rockport
                    , and then overland to Gentryville.12 There is reason to believe
                    that Herndon was ill part of the time he was in 
                        Spencer County
                     for the second day of his visit he conducted no interviews at all, and he seems to have
                    left for Illinois before he had intended to on account of illness. Yet his trip to 
                        Spencer County
                     afforded Herndon some of the most memorable moments of all his 
                        Lincoln
                     researches; he kept a veritable log of his interviews, and they provided him with
                    invaluable information 
                  
                     7 Wartmann to Herndon, June 19, 1865, ms. 2192, Herndon-Weik
                            Collection. I derived this insight from William Bartelt, historian at the 
                                Lincoln
                             Boyhood National Memorial, 
                                Lincoln City
                            , Indiana, in conversation on February 9, 1992.
                  
                     8 J.B. Rowbotham to Herndon, June 24, June 26, 1865, mss.
                            2205–06, 2214, Herndon-Weik Collection.
                  
                     9 Wartmann to Herndon, July 21, 1865, mss. 2256–59, ibid.
                  
                     10 Herndon interview with Dennis Hanks at the 
                                Chicago
                             Sanitary Fair, June 13, 1865, mss. 2184–88, ibid.;
                            Hanks to Herndon, June 15, August 2, 1865, mss. 2189, 2271, ibid.
                  
                     11 Herndon interviews with Hanks and Sarah Bush 
                                Lincoln
                            , near 
                        Charleston, Illinois
                     , September 8, 1865, mss.
                            2309–16, 2279–2300, ibid.
                  
                     12 George Rogers Taylor and Irene D. Neu, The American
                                Railroad Network, 1861–1890 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1956), Map II.
               
                     and some impressions of the young 
                        Lincoln
                     and his background that were to become indelible, and important to the books that would
                    rely on those interviews.
            Herndon's first full day in 
                        Spencer County
                     was Monday, September 12. It was spent in Gentryville where he talked at length with
                    Nathaniel Grigsby, who was to be his "old guide and companion," on most of his 
                        Spencer County
                     travels. Indeed Herndon seems to have stayed at Grigsby's home. Obviously
                    flattered by the attention paid to his 
                        Lincoln
                     connection, Grigsby could be nothing but laudatory of the young Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , in spite of the bitterness that had reportedly existed between the 
                        Lincoln
                     and Grigsby families. Grigsby certainly was authoritative; he had attended school with
                    Abraham and Sarah 
                        Lincoln
                     and clearly remembered lessons learned and books read there, and Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    's studious habits. His recollections of both Thomas and Nancy Hanks 
                        Lincoln
                     were quite detailed, and his inclination was to compare one to the other; he considered
                    Nancy Hanks the superior of the parents, known "for the extraordinary strength of her
                    mind," while Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     was "always doing but doing nothing great… ."
            Grigsby was the first of three Indiana informants to insist that the young 
                        Lincoln
                     "did drink his dram as well as all others did, preachers and Christians
                    included," in the 
                        Spencer County
                     wilderness, and he was the first of several to maintain that in his Indiana youth 
                        Lincoln
                     leaned toward Jacksonian Democracy. He was also the first to tell Herndon of the
                    "Chronicles of Reuben," a rather acerbic satire written in Old Testament language,
                    which 
                        Lincoln
                     had aimed at Grigsby's own family, and over which a fight had taken place
                    between William Grigsby and 
                        Lincoln
                    's stepbrother John D. Johnston. "It hurt us then, but its all over
                    now," said Nathaniel Grigsby to Herndon. Grigsby might as well have owned up to knowing
                    about the Chronicles, for they were well remembered all over the neighborhood, "better than
                    the Bible—better than Watts's hymns," as Joseph Richardson would later
                    tell Herndon. This was far from the last time that Herndon would hear about them. But in spite of
                    the chronicles, "There is now no family in the broad land who after this loved 
                        Lincoln
                     so well and who now look upon him as so great a man," said Grigsby.
                    "We all voted for him—all that could…."13
            
            Grigsby escorted Herndon to the 
                        Lincoln
                     farm and its environs on the 14th and to interviews with David Turnham and the aged
                        
                  
                     13 Nathaniel Grigsby interview, Gentryville, Indiana, September 12,
                            1865, mss. 2320–28, Herndon-Weik Collection; Joseph Richardson interview,
                            Gentryville, Indiana, undated, ms. 2333, ibid. That 
                                Lincoln
                             and the Grigsbys were eventually reconciled is evident from Grigsby's
                            later account of 
                                Lincoln
                            's return to 
                                Spencer County
                             in 1844 to campaign for Henry 
                                Clay
                            . Grigsby interview, Gentryville, Indiana, September 16, 1865, mss.
                            2357–2358, ibid.
               
                    
                    
                  NATHANIEL GRIGSBY
                            AS
                            HE
                            APPEARED
                            LATE
                            IN
                            LIFE Courtesy of the National Park Service, 
                                Lincoln
                             Boyhood National Memorial
               
                     William Wood the next day. On the 16th Herndon spent a
                    profitable time with Mrs. Elizabeth Crawford and some other respondents. Turnham, like Nat Grigsby,
                    was to be a continuous correspondent of Herndon's, and as with Grigsby, his recollections
                    of 
                        Lincoln
                    's early schooling were valuable. Though six years older than 
                        Lincoln
                    , Turnham had hunted and fished and attended school with him. He said that in school 
                        Lincoln
                     "soon outstript me," and the memory of 
                        Lincoln
                    's studiousness, in and out of school, still impressed Turnham. Indeed Turnham
                    was one of several to note that 
                        Lincoln
                     preferred studying to physical work, acknowledging at the same time that 
                        Lincoln
                     was a diligent student. His slightly greater age allowed Turnham to have something like
                    an adult perspective on Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                    , whose competence as a cabinetmaker Turnham respected. It was to Turnham that Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     sold his corn and hogs when moving to 
                        Illinois
                    . Turnham was also the first of many to recall young 
                        Lincoln
                    's ability to remember sermons or political speeches so well as to repeat them
                    accurately to his friends after the fact, and he also claimed to have made available to 
                        Lincoln
                     the first law book that the latter ever saw. The rude character of life in early 
                        Spencer County
                     was a constant undertone in most of Turnham's recollection. After dining with
                    Turnham, Herndon noted of the experience: "good dinner, good man."14
            
            The eighty-two-year-old William Wood had employed Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     to do carpenter and cabinet work for him and recalled Nancy Hanks 
                        Lincoln
                     as intelligent and strong-minded and the source of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    's "mind and fixed morals." But most notably Wood remembered
                    Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     as a well-informed young reader of newspapers and as an essayist, on politics and
                    temperance. Wood claimed that some early articles written by 
                        Lincoln
                     had impressed local clergymen and attorneys and had been published in newspapers in
                    Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                    . The memory of the young 
                        Lincoln
                    's great physical strength also continued to impress Wood, as did 
                        Lincoln
                    's intellectual and moral maturity. "Abe was always a man though a
                    boy," said he. "I thought more of Abe than any boy I ever saw…
                        ."15
            
            After seeing to his dinner on the 16th, Mrs. Crawford told Herndon the famous story of the Weems book
                    which 
                        Lincoln
                     had borrowed from her husband and which he then had accidentally allowed to get wet.
                    Josiah Crawford allowed 
                        Lincoln
                     to keep the book, in return for 
                        Lincoln
                    's pulling fodder for a day or two for the Crawfords. It should be noted that
                    others of Herndon's respondents thought that 
                        Lincoln
                     had resented the penalty prescribed by Crawford, 
                  
                     14 David Turnham interview, Elizabeth (now Dale), Indiana, September
                            15, 1865, mss. 2353–56, ibid.
                  
                     15 William Wood interview, Gentryville, Indiana, September 15, 1865,
                            mss. 2332, 2335–31, 2339, ibid.
               
                     but it appeared from Mrs. Crawford's testimony that 
                        Lincoln
                     had often subsequently worked for her husband for twenty-five cents a day, sometimes
                    staying overnight at the Crawfords' house and studying their books by the fireside. Mrs.
                    Crawford clearly remembered 
                        Lincoln
                    's ambition. "He said that he would be Presdt of the US told my
                    husband so often—Said it jokingly—yet with a smack of deep Earnestness in his
                    Eye and tone," she told Herndon. It was Mrs. Crawford who eventually provided Herndon with
                    a version of the Chronicles of Reuben. She recited a few lines to Herndon during his visit, then
                    went no further on account of the poem's smuttiness. She promised to observe propriety by
                    giving the rest of the poem to her daughter-in-law, who would in turn tell it to her son who then
                    would write it to Herndon. An actual copy of the Chronicles had recently been discovered in
                    Gentryville, just before Herndon's trip to Indiana. As he told Jesse Weik much later,
                    Herndon was unable to buy that copy at the time he was there.16 Mrs. Crawford
                    concluded the interview by giving Herndon a cane that she had had made from a rail split by 
                        Lincoln
                     for her husband. Herndon in his notes paid her the supreme compliment of calling her
                    "a Lady of the Ky. starnp—"17
            
            At 
                        Rockport
                     on Sunday the 17th, Herndon spoke with four informants, including the widow of Allen
                    Gentry with whom 
                        Lincoln
                     took his first flatboat trip to 
                        New Orleans
                     in 1828. Mrs. Gentry, of the same age as 
                        Lincoln
                    , also had fond school memories of him, and a strong recollection of how uniquely
                    well-informed the teen-aged 
                        Lincoln
                     was for his time and place. When 
                        Lincoln
                     had tried to explain the relative movements of the earth and the moon to her, she out
                    of her ignorance called him a fool, but to Herndon she said, "I know now that I was the
                    fool—not 
                        Lincoln
                     … he was the learned boy among us unlearned folks."18 John Dougherty and Dr. Hougland of 
                        Rockport
                     both spoke of the influence on 
                        Lincoln
                     of William Jones, an astute and well-read Gentryville merchant and sometime employer of 
                        Lincoln
                    . Jones was later to be a Whig politician in 
                        Spencer County
                    , a member of the Indiana General Assembly, and colonel of a locally raised Union
                    regiment. There was agreement among these informants and others that Jones was significant in
                    interesting 
                        Lincoln
                     in public affairs, in lending him books and newspapers, and perhaps in turning 
                        Lincoln
                     toward an anti-
                        Jackson
                     affiliation in politics. Jones was also remembered to 
                  
                     16 John W. Lamar to James W. Wartmann, June 3, 1887, mss.
                            4593–94, ibid.; Herndon to Weik, December 22, 1886, in The Hidden 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                     , comp. Emanuel Hertz (
                                New York
                            , 1938), 150–51.
                  
                     17 Elizabeth Crawford interview, Gentryville, Indiana, September 16,
                            1865, mss. 2338, 2340–41, 2343, 2346, ibid.
                  
                     18 Mrs. Allen Gentry interview, 
                                Rockport
                            , Indiana, September 17, 1865, mss. 2362–64, ibid.
               
                     have said "that Mr. Lincoln laid the foundation of his
                    character in 
                        Spencer
                     Co. Indiana."19
            
            But the most memorable day of Herndon's visit seems to have been the previous Wednesday,
                    September 14, when early in the morning Nat Grigsby took him to see the 
                        Lincoln
                     farm and the grave of Nancy Hanks 
                        Lincoln
                    , and then to Little Pigeon Meeting House, where Aaron and Sarah 
                        Lincoln
                     Grigsby were buried. Near the church he drank from a spring, "out of which Abe
                    had kneeled and drank a thousand times." With a romantic's sensitivity to the
                    particulars of nature, Herndon filled his account of the trip with descriptions of the look of the
                    area, of its hills, its timber, its springs and streams. "All is a dense
                    forest—wild and grand," he wrote at one point. At 
                        Lincoln
                    's mother's gravesite, the normally freethinking Herndon seems almost
                    to have been transfigured. A sentimental man in a sentimental time, he nonetheless was never again
                    to record having been so moved during his researches. "God bless her if I could breathe
                    life into her again I would do it," he wrote of the experience: "Could I only
                    whisper in her Ear—‘Your son was Presdt—of the U.S. from 1861 to
                    186[5],’ I would be satisfied. I have heard much of this blessed, good woman. I stood
                    bare headed in reverence at her grave. I can't say why—yet I felt in the
                    presence of the living woman translated to another world. ‘God bless her,’
                    said her Son to me once and I repeat that which Echoes audibly in my soul—‘God
                    bless her.‘" Curious and somewhat aggrieved that not only was Nancy Hanks 
                        Lincoln
                    's grave not marked but also that there was disagreement over which grave in
                    the small plot was actually hers, Herndon nonetheless felt personally privileged to have visited the
                    site. He wrote, "After looking at the grave and Contemplating in silence the mutations of
                    things—death—immortality—God, I left, I hope, the grave, a better
                    man—at least if but for one moment."20
            
            Herndon never returned to 
                        Spencer County
                    , but he remained in contact with Turnham, Grigsby, and Mrs. Crawford, all of whom are
                    cited in both the 
                        Lincoln
                     biographies that were written primarily from the materials that Herndon had collected,
                    those compiled over the name of Ward Hill Lamon and by Jesse Weik. Mrs. Crawford continued to be a
                    particularly fruitful source. Indeed these three, once they were known as sources on 
                        Lincoln
                    's early life, were to be interviewed by still others later.21
            
            Also cited by Lamon and Weik are other informants from this trip such as Green B. Taylor, for whose
                    father 
                        Lincoln
                     had kept a 
                  
                     19 John Dougherty and Dr., Hougland interviews, 
                                Rockport
                            , Indiana, September 17, 1865, mss. 2366–67, 2360, ibid. The quotation is from the Hougland interview.
                  
                     20 Herndon statement headed "
                                Lincoln
                             Farm," September 14, 1865, mss. 2344–45,
                            2347–50, ibid.
                  
                     21 See Bess V. Ehrmann, The Missing Chapter in the Life
                                of Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1938), 69–70.
               
                     ferry over the 
                        Ohio
                    , Joseph Richardson, and John Romine.22 Richardson was a little
                    younger than 
                        Lincoln
                     and had looked up to him as a kind of preceptor. He remembered 
                        Lincoln
                    's great strength, maintaining that he could carry "what 3 ordinary
                    men would grunt & sweat at." But more impressive was 
                        Lincoln
                    's studious-ness. Richardson recalled that in his copy book, young Abraham had
                    written:
            
                    "Good boys who to their books apply
                    "Will make great men by & by."
                
            Though Richardson never forgot the advice, to Romine such a sentiment was unimpressive. Never denying 
                        Lincoln
                    's physical prowess, Romine is nonetheless responsible for a celebrated
                    description of 
                        Lincoln
                    's aversion to work: he "was awful lazy; he worked for
                    me—was always reading and thinking … didn't love to work but did
                    dearly love his pay," which can certainly be taken as an expression of the premium
                    generally placed on physical rather than mental achievement on this and most other frontiers.23
            
            Herndon doubtless could have ranged even further than he did in finding informants. With the
                    exception of Romine, his interviewees tended to be laudatory toward 
                        Lincoln
                     and proud of their association with him. Herndon was probably too reliant on Wartmann
                    in making initial contacts, and Wartmann's inclination to refer him to Republicans seems to
                    have kept him away from male members of the numerous Gentry clan, Jacksonian Democrats who
                    nonetheless knew 
                        Lincoln
                     well and whose perspectives might have been at variance with much of what he collected.
                    Nat Grigsby's outspoken partisanship might also have been a limiting influence.
            Nevertheless, the major payoff from the journey was a wealth of previously unknown information about 
                        Lincoln
                    's essentially undocumented early life. Furthermore, Herndon's
                    developing strong impression of the primitive and frequently violent character of 
                        Lincoln
                    's early social environment must also have been affected by the still
                    undeveloped nature of the 
                        Spencer County
                     that he saw, a region, as David Donald has said, "almost as backwoodsy in 1865
                    as when the Lincolns had migrated from 
                        Kentucky
                    ."24 Even then it must have smacked of the southern Indiana
                    described by Edward Eggleston. The population was rough and mostly semi-literate at best, but
                    Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     had been able to thrive in it partly because he could take care of himself physically.
                    In spite of strong 
                  
                     22 Taylor interview, 
                                Troy
                            , Indiana, September 16, 1865, ms. 2361, Herndon-Weik Collection.
                  
                     23 Richardson and Romine interviews, Gentryville, Indiana, September
                            14, 1865, mss. 2330, 2350–52, ibid.; Donald F. Tingley,
                            "Anti-Intellectualism on the Early Illinois Frontier," in Essays in Illinois History in Honor of Glenn Huron 
                                    Seymour
                                
                     , ed. Donald F. Tingley (Carbondale, Ill., 1967), 3–17.
                  
                     24 Donald, 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                's Herndon, 183.
               
                     influences to the contrary he had been able to prepare himself
                    well enough to appear "thoroughly posted in Politics" by the time he moved to 
                        Illinois
                    .25 And of comparable importance, it is likely that the essentially
                    positive, if limited, view that the reader gets of Nancy Hanks 
                        Lincoln
                     from the Lamon and Herndon-Weik biographies is also an important dividend of this trip;
                    indeed, Herndon admitted as much, much later.26 Nancy Hanks was not remembered
                    well in 
                        Spencer County
                    , but insofar as she was remembered, it was as an intelligent and hard-working woman, as
                    a good mother, and as a victim of frontier hardship. Since the little that 
                        Lincoln
                     had said to Herndon about his mother was also strongly favorable, this was the
                    impression that Herndon and the authors who drew on him retained and perpetuated, rather than some
                    definitely negative ones that he had collected from Kentucky informants.
            Douglas Wilson has recently asserted that without William Herndon we would be largely in the dark
                    about 
                        Lincoln
                    's early life even well into the 1830s, for "without
                    Herndon's material there is precious little else."27 One can
                    only agree. However much Herndon has been accused of mythmaking, with only partial justification at
                    the most, without his success in discovering 
                        Spencer County
                     residents who were willing to talk and write to him about these vitally formative years
                    in the life of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , we would be poor indeed.
            
               
                  25 Herndon note, September 17, 1865, ms. 2367, Herndon-Weik Collection.
               
                  26 Herndon to Jesse Weik, October 10, 1888, in Hertz, The
                            Hidden 
                                Lincoln
                            
                  , 218–20.
               
                  27 Douglas L. Wilson, "Herndon and His 
                            Lincoln
                         Informants," Journal of the Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                             Association, XIV (1993), 23.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Middle Ground: Indians, Empires, and Republics in the Great Lakes Region,
                        1650–1815. By Richard White. (
                  Cambridge, England
               : 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 1991. Pp. xvi, 544. Maps, notes, illustrations, chart, tables, index.
                    Clothbound, $69.50; paperbound, $19.95.)
            Sweeping in scope, and comprehensive in content, this survey of Indian-white relations in the Great
                    Lakes and northern Ohio Valley investigates the interaction between the tribes and the French,
                    British, and Americans and asserts that the French and Indians intially created a "middle
                    ground," a relationship encompassing political, economic, and social ties maintained
                    "through rituals and ceremonials based on cultural parallels and congruencies, inexact and
                    artificial as they originally may have been" (p. 93). Richard White argues that throughout
                    the French period, although "European goods had become an integral part of Algonquian
                    life" (p. 1401, the tribes were not materially dependent upon them, and the exchange of
                    commodities through the fur trade reflected political and ceremonial obligations as much as economic
                    necessity. In turn, the political relationship between the French and most of the tribes was based
                    upon Algonquian concepts of fatherhood, although the French unsuccessfully attempted to incorporate
                    the tribes into a more conventional European political alliance.
            Not surprisingly, in the decades following the French and Indian War this middle ground suffered
                    considerable erosion. British officials refused to participate in the distribution of gifts and the
                    ceremonialism that characterized the French-Indian relationship, while British settlers, who
                    intruded into the upper Ohio Valley, "did not believe their lives depended upon good
                    relations with Indians" (p. 317). During the American Revolution British leaders, reliant
                    upon Algonquian military support attempted to reconstitute part of the older relationship, but their
                    efforts achieved only limited success.
            White suggests that in the decades following the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                     Algonquian villagers residing in 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and Michigan attempted to forge a confederacy to confront the onrushing
                    Americans, but because the Indians "lacked the intimate ties that bound a village, and
                    lacked fathers (leaders of stature, Indian or European) to mediate disputes" (p. 441), the
                    confederacy proved  unsuccessful. Meanwhile, the
                    tribesmen's reliance upon the British for logistical support proved tenuous since British
                    leaders in 
                        Canada
                     were tied to larger political interests and believed that the confederacy lacked viable
                    leadership. Finally, White argues, religious leaders such as the Shawnee Prophet paralleled
                    contemporary American concepts of race and culture, making Americans into
                    "other-than-human-persons … children of the Great Serpent" (p. 507),
                    while Tecumseh desperately attempted to reconstruct "Indian republics" and
                    confederacies that had so often failed in the past. But they failed, and by the early nineteenth
                    century the middle ground had completely disappeared, forcing the Indians to decide between the
                    "stark choices of assimilation and otherness" (p. 518).
            This is a very complex book whose thesis of a "middle ground" offers a valuable
                    model for the exploration of the Indian-French relationship. Indeed, most scholars who have examined
                    this interaction have described facets of this relationship, but White's analysis is much
                    more comprehensive. Since he covers almost two centuries, White has been forced to integrate a very
                    broad spectrum of conditions and events into his survey. This integration is both the
                    volume's strength and its weakness. Certainly scholars whose particular area of expertise
                    is not the Indian people of the Old Northwest will find that this book provides a wonderful
                    framework for assembling a veritable jigsaw of complex Indian-European and intertribal
                    relationships. But specialists may argue that not quite all of the pieces fit. For example, White
                    argues that the Fox Wars provide "the basic primer for alliance politics" (p.
                    1491, and that they were primarily intertribal conflicts (rather than warfare between the French and
                    the Foxes) which began at 
                        Detroit
                     in 1710. Undoubtedly the conflicts were intertribal in nature, but there is very good
                    evidence to suggest that they originated in Wisconsin during the seventeenth century. Some scholars
                    may question White's assessment of La Demoiselle and William Wells or his statement that
                    the "new generation [of village chiefs who emerged during the American Revolution] were far
                    more parochial and less sophisticated than alliance chiefs of a generation before" (p.
                    379). These are relatively minor questions of historical interpretation and are indicative of the
                    problems encountered in integrating such a plethora of individuals and events into a meaningful
                    synthesis.
            More important however are problems inherent in the chronological scope of the volume.
                    White's depiction of the middle ground is a masterful piece of historical analysis and
                    provides a superb framework for understanding the complex relationship between the French and the
                    Indians; but his final chapters, in which he argues that the Indians and British officials such as
                    William Johnson attempted to recreate a "new middle ground" in the half century
                    following Pontiac's Rebellion are much less convincing. As  White illustrates, after 1770 the British and American settlers who
                    invaded the West proceeded "in a direction opposite from that taken by the French
                    villagers" (p. 341), and although the tribes-people may have longed for the middle ground
                    of their fathers, they now were faced with new circumstances which precluded any accommodation.
                    White describes the ill-fated attempts of the villagers to form a confedracy during the 1790s and
                    the rise of Tecumseh and the Shawnee Prophet as efforts by the Indian communities to construct
                    meaningful new patterns of interaction, but his arguments for the period after 1770 are less
                    convincing.
            Superbly documented, this volume reflects both the breadth and depth of White's research.
                    Indeed, the text is buttressed by lengthy expository footnotes containing discussions of
                    White's analysis of both primary and secondary materials. Unfortunately, however, 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press chose not to include a bibliography, and readers who are interested in
                    White's sources sometimes will be forced to search back through pages of such documentation
                    before encountering the initial citation.
            Scholars may disagree with some of White's conclusions, but any historian or anthropologist
                    seriously interested in the tribes of the Old Northwest will be forced to come to terms with this
                    volume. It is unquestionably one of the most significant studies of the Indian people in the Old
                    Northwest to emerge since the advent of the "new Indian history" and perhaps ranks
                    with Anthony F. C. Wallace's The Death and Rebirth of the Seneca (1969)
                    as a landmark volume in the ethnohistory of the Great Lakes tribes.
            R. DAVID EDMUNDS is professor of history at Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , and has served as the acting director of the D'Arcy McNickle Center for the
                    History of the American Indian at the Newberry Library. He recently coauthored (with Joseph L.
                    Peyser) a book-length history of the Fox Wars and has written extensively about the Great Lakes
                    tribes.
         
         
            
               Social Work and Social Order: The Settlement Movement in Two Industrial Cities,
                        1889–1930. By Ruth Hutchinson Crocker. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1992. Pp. x, 347. Maps, illustrations, tables, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $39.95.)
            The progressive era continues to intrigue historians as they struggle to define the meaning of
                    progressivism. The settlement movement, in particular, has generated a lively debate. Some
                    historians claim that settlement workers were "spearheads for reform" dedicated to
                    a vision of progressive change. Others insist that middle-class settlement workers tried to control
                    the behavior and attitudes of their working-class clientele. In Social Work and Social
                        Order Ruth Hutchinson Crocker argues that settlement workers in Indiana did both. They
                    struggled to improve the conditions 
                    
                  FLANNER HOUSE BABY CLINIC, ABOUT 1918. THE
                            OLD FLANNER HOUSE BUILDING
                            ON COLTON STREET
                            WAS
                            SOON
                            ABANDONED
                            FOR
                            BETTER
                            QUARTERS. Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                of the urban masses, and they functioned as missionaries for the "American
                    Way."
            Crocker examines the programs, personnel, and philosophy of seven settlement houses in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Gary. Settlement workers in Indiana, she claims, established important social
                    service programs for immigrants, African Americans, and white working-class men and women. In the
                    process they also hoped to maintain social order. Settlement workers assisted foreigners in their
                    adjustment to American society but at the same time sought "to eradicate
                    foreignness" (p. 225). Protestant settlements showed little respect for the religious and
                    cultural heritage of immigrants while Catholic settlements tried "to neutralize the
                    proselytizing efforts of the Protestant agencies" (p. 212). Settlement workers also tried
                    to ease the transition of African-American migrants to the northern cities. Yet they were careful to
                    maintain the racial status quo through segregated services. Similarly, settlements catering to women
                    challenged neither traditional concepts of femininity nor women's proper place in society.
                    Instead, the settlement workers' "vision of reform rested on a greatly enhanced
                    role for motherhood,  rather than on equality or individualism,
                    on mothers' duties, not women's rights" (p. 217). Company sponsored
                    settlements served the needs of the working poor but also helped to adapt them to industrial society
                    in order to enhance their efficiency in the work force and to prevent challenges to the political
                    and economic system.
            
               Social Work and Social Order is a valuable addition to the existing literature on
                    progressive reform. Crocker's study offers a new interpretive paradigm and important
                    insights into what she calls the "second-tier" settlements that worked in the
                    shadow of Hull House. Drawing on a variety of primary sources such as letters, newspaper accounts,
                    and settlement reports, Crocker creates a vivid portrait of settlement work in Indiana. This
                    well-written book will be of particular interest to labor, social, immigration, and progressive era
                    historians as well as students of welfare reform, social work, and Indiana history.
            NINA MJAGKIJ is assistant professor of history, Ball State
                    University, 
                        Muncie
                    . Her book Light in the Darkness: African Americans and the YMCA,
                        1852–1946 is forthcoming from the University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    .
         
         
            
               A Good Neighbor: The First Fifty Years of Crane. By Robert L. Reid and Thomas E.
                    Rodgers. (
                        Evansville
                    , Ind.: Historic Southern Indiana Project, University of Southern Indiana, 1991. Pp. x,
                    118. Map, illustrations, notes. Paperbound, $10.00, plus $2.50 postage and
                    handling. Order from: Commanding Officer, Naval Weapons Support Center, Building 77-Rec Services,
                    Crane, IN 47522.)
            The Crane naval weapons depot, located in Martin County in southwestern Indiana, was one of several
                    war production facilities that were built in Indiana during World War II. (The others included a
                    poison gas plant at 
                        Newport
                    , a gunpowder plant at 
                        Charlestown
                    , an ordnance plant at 
                        Kingsbury
                    , and shipyards at 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    .) Robert L. Reid and Thomas E. Rodgers use four chapters to survey the
                    institution's half century of history. Chapters one and two deal with the social-economic
                    life of Martin County prior to the establishment of the Crane naval weapons depot. Chapter three
                    concerns the depot's construction, its wartime role, and its social history during the
                    World War II years. While covering the subject from 1945 through 1990, chapter four describes and
                    explains how the depot became a center providing technological support for modern weaponry.
            The authors hold that a "symbiotic" relationship existed between the Crane facility
                    and its neighbors during its first fifty years. In short, the institution provided jobs in an area
                    where employment was traditionally scarce while the people of southwestern Indiana supplied an
                    efficient and dedicated work force. As their 
                    
                  WORKERS
                            AT CRANE ORDNANCE BUILDING DURING WORLD WAR
                            II Courtesy 
                                United States
                             Navy
               
                     title implies, the authors are sympathetic to Crane, but they
                    examine controversial matters. For instance, the book presents the contrasting views of government
                    officials and local people concerning land acquisition by the government during the 1930s and 1940s.
                    The account of Crane history since World War II is uncritical.
            The book contains interesting primary source material and illustrations. Each chapter offers a
                    selection of memoirs of persons associated with the depot or the center. The
                    "Memories" sections do not provide introductory comments placing the reminiscences
                    in their historical contexts. The memoirs and much of the text's primary source material
                    are derived from oral interviews conducted by the authors. Endnotes reveal that other primary
                    sources used in the text include government documents and contemporary newspapers. The book presents
                    a large number of appropriately illustrative, well-identified, glossy black and white photographs,
                    but those in the final chapters are undated. The volume has a straightforward style, but it is
                    flawed by many errors caused by inadequate editing. Nevertheless, A Good Neighbor
                    will be welcomed by persons interested in Indiana history and in military history as well as by
                    general readers.
            WILLIAM W. GIFFIN is professor of history at Indiana State
                    University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , where he teaches a course on Indiana history.
         
         
            
               Hoosier 
                            German
                         Tales Small & Tall. Edited by Eberhard Reichmann. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : 
                        German
                    -American Center & Indiana 
                        German
                     Heritage Society, Inc., 1991. Pp. xix, 258. Illustrations, notes. Paperbound,
                    $8.50. Order from NCSA Literatur, Green Valley, 
                        Nashville
                    , IN 47448.)
            In 1850 Germans accounted for over half of the foreign-born population in Indiana. Since 
                        German
                     Americans have had a significant impact on Hoosier history and culture, the publication
                    of this collection of Hoosier 
                        German
                    -American texts for the general reader fits in well with the Indiana Historical
                    Society's current Ethnic History Project. The 337 texts, mainly short narratives, were
                    assembled from oral interviews, written accounts of around seventy contributors, and printed
                    sources, including 
                        German
                    - and English-language newspapers and local and family histories. The source of each
                    item is identified in brief endnotes to the collection. Most of the texts are in English, though
                    some are reported in 
                        German
                    -American dialect, and a few are reported in both 
                        German
                     and English versions.
            In his introductory note to the reader, Eberhard Reichmann points out that "the criteria for
                    inclusion of texts were fairly logical: There had to be a Hoosier 
                        German
                    -American connection in  the plot, the character
                    and/or the narrator. Items had to reflect—and with a certain charm or
                    punch—how life was experienced and perceived … It stands to reason that many
                    items, especially those dealing with language, are closely tied to the 
                        German
                    -American experience; others, less parochial, are simply all-Hoosier, all-American,
                    all-human" (p. vii). It is true that many of these texts are shared by other ethnic groups
                    throughout the 
                        United States
                    , but as they are presented here, most have a Hoosier 
                        German
                     flavor.
            Arranged under twenty-seven headings, the selections include, among other things, tales of coming to
                    Indiana, of place and personal naming, of pioneer preachers and priests, of witches and the devil,
                    of other folk beliefs and customs, of children and school days, of Civil War days, and of accidents
                    and tragedies, including "The 
                        German
                    -American Tragedy: World War I." Along with the folk's own account of
                    their experiences in arriving and living in Indiana, there is rich humor in these tales. For
                    example, readers learn that one "philosopher" used to say that "his was
                    the kind of luck that when soup was served, all he had was a fork" (p. 230) and that 
                        Franklin
                     Vonnegut, well in his nineties, remained seated in an 
                        Indianapolis
                     funeral home after attending services for one of his few remaining friends. When asked
                    if he were feeling well, Vonnegut replied, "Oh, yes, I was just wondering whether
                    it's worth the trouble to go home or not" (p. 236). Readers also learn that an
                    Indiana University 
                        German
                     professor never drank liquor before 500 p.m. When colleagues visiting his home
                    requested drinks before that time, he looked at his pocket watch and observed that "it iz
                    actually a bit too early for dat," but added, "What de heck, it iz alreddy pasht
                    five o'clock in 
                        Scotland
                    , we might as well" (p. 189).
            With a too brief general introduction and without headnotes to the sections and texts, the editor
                    allows the texts to speak for themselves. While it is not necessary to tax theory in a collection of
                    texts intended for the general reader, brief historical and comparative headnotes to the sections
                    and/or texts would have made the collection more meaningful and useful.
            RONALD L. BAKER, chairperson and professor of English at
                    Indiana State University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , is the author of Folklore in the Writings of Rowland E. Robinson
                    (1973), Indiana Place Names (1975), Hoosier Folk Legends (1982),
                        Jokelore: Humorous Folktales from Indiana (1986), French Folklife
                        in 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                (1989), and numerous articles in folklore journals. He is the editor of two
                    journals, Midwestern Folklore and The Folklore Historian, and a
                    monograph, The Study of Place Names (1991).
         
         
            
               Eliza Julia Flower. Letters of an English Gentlewoman: Life on the 
                            Illinois
                        –Indiana Frontier, 1817–1861. By Janet R. Walker and
                    Richard W. Burkhardt. (
                        Muncie
                    , Ind.: Ball State University, 1991. Pp. x, 173. Illustrations, maps, appendixes, notes,
                    selected bibliography, $11.95.)
            Eliza Julia (Andrews) Flower is perhaps known best as the probable agent of the estrangement between
                    George Flower and  Morris Birkbeck, founders of the English
                    Settlement in Edwards County, 
                        Illinois
                    . In this volume she emerges much further, as an articulate early example of the
                    stereotypical indomitable Englishwoman surmounting privation at the edge of European civilization.
                    Her husband George Flower, on the other hand, comes forth in a less positive fashion.
            Most histories of the English Settlement essentially end with the death of Birkbeck in 1825, but this
                    book effectively begins some years later. Not really a volume of letters, it is instead a rendering
                    of Flower family history set against the larger development of the 
                        Illinois
                    -Indiana border. The first six chapters use letters from Eliza to a nephew as texts on
                    the basis of which information is spun out on such matters as education, commercial development,
                    domestic life and gender status, and health on the frontier. The seventh and final chapter, more
                    family-oriented, is mainly an account of the last years of this devoted couple, who died on the same
                    day in early 1862.
            Eliza had to put up with George Flower's personal and financial involvement with Fanny
                    Wright at 
                        Nashoba
                    , though the authors point out that Celia Eckhardt's recent allegation of a
                    romance between the two is unprovable. Eliza also had to watch the Flowers’ considerable
                    fortune dwindle, not only as a result of George's altruism but also because of his
                    ill-regulated generosity to relatives and his improvidence and because of plain bad luck and bad
                    management. At one time the Flowers resided in Park House near Albion, 
                        Illinois
                    , one of the most impressive houses in the West, but at the end of their lives they were
                    reduced to hotel-keeping at 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , Indiana.
            Eliza Flower gave birth to fourteen children and raised eight to adulthood, one of whom was murdered
                    by Illinois ruffians. She made a home for immigrant English relatives and presided over Park House,
                    entertaining its frequent guests. All the while she maintained a lively interest in her community
                    and in the larger world. Complaining was not in her nature; she seems seldom to have regretted her
                    relocation in fronter 
                        Illinois
                    , asserting in 1833 that she liked the backwoods better than any place on earth.
            The authors' epistolary selections and accompanying prose provide the next best thing to a
                    full biography of Eliza Julia Flower. Liberal illustrations add further to this volume, including
                    three contemporary drawings of English Settlement scenes by Charles Alexandre LeSueur. While one
                    would wish for still more, this new light on the later years of the English Settlement and its
                    founders is welcome indeed.
            RODNEY O. DAVIS is professor of history at Knox College,
                            
                  Galesburg, Illinois
               . He published a collection of midwestern family letters in
                    the Indiana Magazine of History in 1990.
         
         
         
            John Jacob Astor: Business and Finance in the Early Republic. By John Denis Haeger. (
                        Detroit
                    : Wayne State University Press, 1991. Pp. 365. Tables, illustrations, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $39.95.)
            When I told a friend that I was reviewing a book about John Jacob Astor, she said, "Oh, one
                    of the robber barons!"—an opinion that Americans generally hold. A reader of
                    this book will modify that opinion. Astor had a streak of ruthlessness, to be sure, and he seldom
                    acted from altruistic motives, but as John Denis Haeger's research amply proves, the
                    wide-open economic opportunities of early nineteenth-century America and Astor's
                    exceptional entrepreneurial abilities were the principal sources of his success.
            Hardly the "rag to riches" tycoon of his earlier biographers, Astor was born into
                    the artisan class of a 
                        German
                     village near 
                        Heidelberg
                     in 1763. He attended the local school and at sixteen joined his older brother, a maker
                    of musical instruments, in 
                        London
                    . As an agent of that brother and other British merchants, he arrived in 
                        Baltimore
                     in the spring of 1784. By the end of that year he had established himself in 
                        New York
                     as an importer of musical instruments and an exporter of furs. Soon he was assuring his
                    source of supply by investing in the western fur trade. After 1800 he entered the 
                        China
                     trade, sending his ships to the Orient with furs and sandalwood and bringing teas and
                    silks to European and American markets.
            In 1808 Astor founded the American Fur Company and in 1811 sent two expeditions to the Pacific
                    Northwest, one around Cape Horn, the other overland, with the purpose of building a fort and trading
                    post on the 
                        Columbia
                     River. This was the ill-fated settlement at Astoria. According to Haeger,
                    Astor's "career during the War of 1812 was a clear example of the intimate
                    relationships among politicians and businessmen in the early Republic" (p. 138). Astor
                    purchased government loans but also traded with the enemy. He kept up friendly contact with
                    government officials but pursued his business interests with single-minded purpose. In 1813 he lost
                    Astoria to the Canadians, not because its conception was economically unsound but because
                    "timing and luck were not his allies" (p. 167).
            After the war Astor was one of the backers of the Second Bank of the 
                        United States
                    , and he served briefly as director of the 
                        New York
                     branch. He revived the American Fur Company, came to dominate the trade at
                    Michilimackinac and 
                        Detroit
                    , and continued to send his ships all over the world. From 1819 to the middle 1830s he
                    spent much of his time in Europe. Through trusted lieutenants, he retained the overall management of
                    his business affairs in the 
                        United States
                    . While the American Fur Company grew larger than any of its competitors, it never
                    became a monopoly. Astor sold his  interest in it in 1834.
                    Subsequently, he devoted himself to real estate investment and urban development. He became 
                        New York City
                    's largest landlord—at one point he had 450 tenants—and,
                    with his son, he built the famous Astor House hotel. When he died in 1848 his estate was worth eight
                    to ten million dollars, a very large fortune for that day.
            "Astor's career," Haeger sums up, "was remarkable for its
                    modernity, vision, and reflection of American economic and political values" (pp.
                    284–85). Haeger's book is noteworthy for its grasp of the economic milieu in
                    which Astor moved, for its concern with scholarly detail, and for its appeal to both the expert and
                    the general reader.
            Irene D. NEU is professor of history emeritus, at Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , and is the author of books and articles on economic and business history.
         
         
            
               The 
                            Wheeling
                         Bridge Case: Its Significance in American Law and Technology. By Elizabeth
                    Brand 
                        Monroe
                    . (
                        Boston
                    : Northeastern University Press, 1992. Pp. xvi, 268. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $45.00.)
            A new bridge, constructed across the Ohio River at 
                        Wheeling
                     in northwestern Virginia in 1849, the first west of the Allegheny Mountains, became an
                    engineering marvel of the day and a promising east-west connection of both the National Road and the 
                        Baltimore
                     and Ohio Railroad. The height of the span did not allow passage of some steamboats with
                    very tall chimneys, and residents of nearby 
                        Pittsburgh
                     complained that the structure was an obstacle to upper river traffic. In fact, there
                    were instances where boats did strike the bridge. Litigation between Pennsylvania and 
                        Virginia
                    , the two states involved in this dispute, went to the Supreme Court where competition
                    between growing western cities and between types of internal improvements (railroads and steamboats)
                    led to a new constitutional question.
            In 1852 the court held that the bridge was indeed an interference with interstate commerce and must
                    be altered or removed. It was an issue of federalism, of national and state powers. Forthwith,
                    Congress, until then silent on standards of bridge construction, responded to political pressures to
                    override the judicial ruling by declaring the 
                        Wheeling
                     bridge an essential postal and military road. The issue called into question which
                    branch of government, the court or Congress, had the greater authority to interpret the
                    Constitution. When that problem came to the justices in 1855, they answered that it was Congress, at
                    least in this instance.
            The interplay of politics and economic development is thoroughly researched and explained. Elizabeth
                    Brand Monroe draws upon a great many primary materials (government documents,  manuscripts, newspapers) as well as the relevant historical literature.
                    She seems on sure ground in revising the familiar thesis of Willard Hurst on law stimulating
                    economic growth. As she points out, different parts of the economy had conflicting interests; and
                    therefore the legal system often favored one at the expense of another. Though she also has
                    worthwhile observations on the constitutional competition of judicial and legislative branches, the
                    long-range distribution of the commerce power between them receives less emphasis.
            MAURICE BAXTER is emeritus professor of history, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is a specialist in American antebellum and constitutional history.
         
         
            
               Agriculture and Slavery in 
                            Missouri
                        's Little Dixie. By R. Douglas Hurt. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of Missouri Press, 1992. Pp. xv, 334. Maps, figures, notes, tables,
                    illustrations, appendix, bibliography, index. $37.50.)
            R. Douglas Hurt remedies 
                        Missouri
                    's exclusion from studies of Upper South agriculture in the antebellum period
                    by providing an in-depth description of seven Missouri counties: 
                  Clay, Lafayette
               , Saline, Cooper,
                    Howard, 
                        Boone
                    , and Callaway. These counties earned the sobriquet of "Little Dixie"
                    for their fealty to the Democratic party and by the concentration of slave labor found there.
            Farmers who began arriving in Little Dixie after the War of 1812 remained subsistence producers up to
                    the 1820s because of a scarcity of markets rather than from lack of desire. These settlers also
                    suffered from contentious land sales stemming from Spanish titles in the old Louisiana territory and
                    from the economic depression following the Panic of 1819. Still, with the 
                        Missouri
                     "fever" running high, Little Dixie did not lack for immigrants by the
                    mid-1820s.
            A majority of the immigrants shared a heritage which disposed them toward southern crops and southern
                    labor systems. Migrants from the Upper South transplanted tobacco cultivation to their new home and
                    found rich Missouri soils far more productive than worn-out Upper South soils. The southern
                    economy's increased reliance on cotton made hemp cultivation, to produce rope and bagging
                    for cotton bales, a mainstay of Little Dixie agriculture. Missouri farmers also raised hogs, sheep,
                    cattle, and mules. Much of the livestock was sold on a local market, but Little Dixie farmers also
                    drove herds of animals to eastern and southern markets. Although quality control and prices remained
                    a problem throughout the antebellum era, these products tied Little Dixie to a larger market.
            While Missouri averaged a slave population of 10 percent of the total population by 1860, in Little
                    Dixie the percentages ran  from 22 percent to 37 percent. Little
                    Dixie farmers considered slavery essential to the profitability of commercial agriculture. Hurt
                    documents the concern of Missouri slaveholders with abolitionism and the fate of Kansas Territory as
                    well as the day-to-day problems of policing, feeding, clothing, and providing medical care for a
                    slave population. Hurt interprets Little Dixie's support for John Bell, Constitutional
                    Union party presidential candidate in 1860, as evidence of the region's devotion to a
                    moderate solution to the sectional issue.
            Perhaps unintentionally, Hurt inserts himself into the quarrel over the timing and extent to which
                    frontier farmers moved from self-sufficiency to involvement in the market economy by repeatedly
                    asserting that Missouri farmers wanted, from the very beginning, to produce their crops for market.
            NICOLE ETCHESON is assistant professor of history,
                    University of 
                  South Dakota, Vermillion
               . She is completing a study of southern influence in antebellum
                    midwestern politics.
         
         
            
               Half Slave and Half Free: The Roots of the Civil War. By Bruce Levine. (
                        New York
                    : Hill and Wang, 1992. Pp. x, 292. Bibliographical essay, index. $30.00.)
            Bruce Levine describes his new book on the coming of the Civil War as a "resynthesis of
                    social and political history" (p. vii). It attempts to integrate newer works in social and
                    cultural history into a wide-ranging reconsideration of how sectional and intrasectional differences
                    led to what the author calls the "second act of America's democratic
                    revolution" (p. 14). Despite a fairly sophisticated interpretative framework, Levine sees
                    slavery as fundamental to the complex political, economic, social, and cultural conflicts of the
                    antebellum decades.
            As the book's title and much of the text suggests, the paradox between liberty and slavery
                    was a central theme of American history and a source of chronic and finally irreconcilable tensions.
                    Joining James Oakes and others in downplaying the importance of paternalism, Levine views slavery as
                    a mechanism for labor exploitation. Indeed, an interest in labor systems—and in the
                    history of workers—is a powerful thread running through the book and one that
                    distinguishes it from other works on this topic.
            New material on religious, social, and cultural life in the North and South, however, is not
                    especially well integrated with the more conventional descriptions of sectional politics. Moreover,
                    Levine sometimes exaggerates the degree of sectional distinctive-ness. For instance, he
                    underestimates the influence of evangelical religion on more traditional notions of honor in the
                    South and is too quick to accept some provocative but at times misleading generalizations found in a
                    number of secondary works. To be fair, how  ever, by painting a
                    picture of sectional conflict with such broad strokes, the author is also able to make some telling
                    points, especially about the tangled meanings of liberty for various groups and individuals.
            On more conventional topics such as the territorial question, the breakdown of the second American
                    party system, and the politics of slavery of the 1850s, Levine is often sketchy, episodic, and
                    predictable. An exception is his skillful analysis of nativism and, curiously enough, his basic
                    rejection of ethnocultural explanations for political behavior in the two decades before the Civil
                    War. Again, he is especially good at examining reactions of northern working people to the political
                    upheaval of the era.
            As a new synthetic treatment of the "roots of the Civil War," Half
                        Slave and Half Free adds a few new twists to a familiar story. The attempt to bring
                    cultural and social themes into the analysis is ambitious and laudatory but not entirely successful.
                    Useful for both general readers and undergraduates, especially for introducing important ideas from
                    the most recent scholarship, Levine's book in many ways reflects both the strengths and
                    weaknesses of contemporary erudition.
            GEORGE C. RABLE is professor of history at Anderson
                    University, Anderson, Indiana, and author of Civil Wars: Women and the Crisis of
                        Southern Nationalism (1989). He is working on a book dealing with the political culture of
                    the Confederacy.
         
         
            
               In the Hands of 
                            Providence
                        : Joshua L. Chamberlain and the American Civil War. By Alice Rains Trulock. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1992. Pp. xxii, 569. Illustrations, maps, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $34.95.)
            Civil War buffs and historians need little introduction to General Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain. His
                    defense of the left flank of the Union army on Little Roundtop at 
                        Gettysburg
                    , together with the chivalrous manner in which he formally received the Confederate
                    surrender at 
                        Appomattox
                     Court House, are legendary. A volunteer who rose to the rank of major general and never
                    officially commanded more than a brigade, Chamberlain has since overshadowed many of his superior
                    officers who commanded divisions and corps. His figure has graced the pages of numerous histories of
                    the Army of the Potomac, most notably John Pullen's The Twentieth 
                            Maine
                        
                (1957), Willard M. Wallace's Soul of the Lion, and
                    Chamberlain's own numerous writings. Nevertheless, the full story of Joshua Chamberlain has
                    never really been told until now.
            
               In the Hands of 
                            Providence
                        
               , by the late Indiana author Alice Rains Trulock, is, quite simply, the
                    definitive biography of the modest professor-turned-soldier. Writing with a poetic prose that is
                    reminiscent of Bruce Catton, Trulock recounts Chamberlain's life in microscopic detail,
                    from childhood through his four postwar  terms as governor of
                    his native 
                        Maine
                    . Trulock details how Chamberlain's character was shaped, in part, by his
                    demanding father, who taught him perseverance; and how it was tempered in the forge of battle,
                    which, Chamberlain believed, was "a test of character; it makes bad men worse and good men
                    better" (p. 340).
            Chamberlain's Civil War service, of course, is the heart of the book. Trulock's
                    knowledge of the Civil War and deep understanding of Chamberlain is evident as she follows her
                    subject through the travail of battle. Her description of Chamberlain at 
                        Gettysburg
                     and on the White Oak Road before 
                        Petersburg
                     are among the most vivid descriptions of combat that this reviewer has read.
            It is unfortunate that Civil War enthusiasts will hear no more from Alice Rains Trulock, as she died
                    shortly before her book was published. Yet with In the Hands of 
                            Providence
                        
               , she has provided one of the finest Civil War biographies ever
                    written—a book that will stand as a monument to a great man and as a memorial to a fine
                    writer.
            ROBERT GARTH SCOTT is the author of Into the Wilderness with the Army of the Potomac (1985, 1992) and editor of Fallen Leaves: The Civil War Letters of Major Henry Livermore Abbott (1991). He is
                    currently writing a biography of General Francis Channing Barlow.
         
         
            
               The Custer Reader. Edited by Paul Andrew Hutton. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of Nebraska Press, 1992. Pp. xiv, 585. Illustrations, notes, maps,
                    bibliographical essay, sources, index. $40.00.)
            Well, it is about time! Someone has finally produced a book to guide the unsuspecting neophyte onto
                    the foreboding plains where George Armstrong Custer played out his destiny. Paul Andrew Hutton was
                    clearly the person for the job. A recognized authority on the Indian wars, he has also dedicated a
                    significant part of his career to the study of popular culture. Those two interests intersect
                    spectacularly at a place, south central Montana on the banks of the Little Big Horn, at a time, June
                    25, 1876, and in a man, George Armstrong Custer.
            
               The Custer Reader is a carefully compiled collection of scholarly articles and
                    firsthand accounts that together comprise the cream of the vast amount of literature on Custer and
                    his times. In addition, photographic essays and maps add additional spice to the mix. The book is
                    intended for the beginner and should be featured as a "Best Buy" at any place
                    stocking Custeriana.
            Anyone who has been exposed to the arcane world of Custer literature can attest to the fact that the
                    mix of sense and nonsense, truth and fancy that comprise that literature is heady and addictive.
                    Hutton has assembled in 585 pages all the information one needs to know about Custer, his times, and
                    his battle. Once those pages have been read, the reader knows all any sensible person  needs to know on the matter. But if at that point the reader's
                    senses fail, Hutton conveniently includes a list of the ten best books for those who want or need
                    more (it really is only nine because The Custer Reader is included as one of the
                    ten). Those who read all the books and articles mentioned in that essay are truly fit to ride with
                    Custer.
            ROBERT T. SMITH lives in Billings, 
                        Montana
                    , not far from the Little Big Horn National Battlefield and would have preferred to ride
                    with Crook.
         
         
            
               The Shaker Experience in America: A History of the United Society of Believers.
                    By Stephen J. Stein. (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 1992. Pp. xx, 554. Maps, illustrations, tables, notes,
                    suggestions for further reading, index. $40.00.)
            This big, gracefully written book comes close to being a definitive history of Shakerism, without
                    entirely supplanting earlier books on the subject like Edward Deming Andrews's classic, The People Called Shakers (1953). Stephen J. Stein presents a carefully detailed
                    portrait to demonstrate that the popular image of the Shakers as quaintly innocent chair makers is
                    simplistic: a photograph features a group of twentieth-century Shakers seated in their new
                    possession, a large automobile. He depicts a people who, while creating their own distinctive
                    communal world, also related to American society in general.
            A scrupulous scholar, Stein bases his discussion of the formative years of Shakerism exclusively on
                    the relatively small number of available contemporary sources in order to separate the truth from
                    the myths established by later accounts. One result is to diminish Ann Lee's importance as
                    a founder and to enhance that of James Whittaker. This is the shortest of the book's five
                    parts, the others benefitting from the fact that the Shakers, initially suspicious of the written
                    word, eventually created an extensive documentary record.
            Part II gives special emphasis to the development of Shaker communitarianism and theology and to the
                    westward expansion of the evolving order, the central figure being Lucy Wright who consolidated the
                    influence of women within the movement. A notable exception to this success was the closing in 1826
                    of the West Union community in Indiana as a result of poor health conditions and the desertion of
                    many of its young members. Part III presents Shakerism at its apogee between 1827 and 1875, a time
                    of prosperity agitated both by spiritualism and conflict within the order. The next part, relating
                    to the years after 1875, is chiefly a story of decline marked by the feminization of the society as
                    male membership dwindled. This period also contained elements of dynamic change as Shakers responded
                    to a modernizing world. Part V features the  revival of interest
                    in Shakerism after the 1960s that temporarily saved the last two communities at
                            
                  Canterbury, New Hampshire
               , and Sabbathday Lake, 
                        Maine
                    .
            In this rich offering of insights, there are a few flaws: Stein sometimes makes assertions which he
                    does not adequately document, and he is rather weak in his picture of social and economic life
                    within the society. On the whole, however, he has written an interesting work which establishes a
                    new standard of truth and completeness in Shaker scholarship. Yale University Press should be
                    commended for producing a book as handsome as it is scholarly.
            EDWARD K. SPANN is professor of history at Indiana State
                    University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    . His most recent books, Brotherly Tomorrows (1989) and Hopedale: From Commune to Company Town (1992), deal with secular and religious efforts to
                    establish cooperative communities. He is currently at work on a history of the Regional Planning
                    Association of America.
         
         
            
               The Invisible Empire in the West: Toward a New Historical Appraisal of the Ku Klux
                        Klan of the 1920s. Edited by Shawn Lay. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1992. Pp. 230. Notes, tables, figures, index.
                    $32.50.)
            The thesis of Shawn Lay and the contributors to The Invisible Empire in the West is
                    that the Ku Klux Klan of the 1920s has been misunderstood. Using the case study method, the authors
                    examine the Klan in 
                        Denver
                    , El Paso, Anaheim, Salt Lake City, and Eugene, 
                        Oregon
                    . It makes sense to study the Klan in a decentralized manner because the organization
                    was decentralized and fragmented, changing color like a chameleon to meld with the local
                    environment.
            Lay believes previous writers have exaggerated the violence of the Klan and that sensationalized
                    accounts are simplistic. The Klan was not composed of marginal men animated by status anxiety and
                    was not dominated by fundamentalists, and there was surprising diversity within its ranks. Never a
                    monolithic movement, it attracted idealists and reformers as well as bigots. Indeed, Klansmen were
                    no more bigoted than non-Klansmen; they were simply activists. Puncturing stereotypes, the authors
                    point out that the Klan was populistic and advocated improved law enforcement, better education, and
                    municipal reform. Its objective was to enforce prohibition and uphold the moral status quo. Klansmen
                    disliked chaos, relished order, and considered themselves patriotic. They were average citizens, not
                    social deviants.
            
               The Invisible Empire in the West applies a higher level of sophistication to the
                    Klan than previous studies. In an illuminating introduction followed by a historiographical essay,
                    the editor argues that older interpretations of the 1920s Klan were flawed by prejudice,
                    overgeneralizations, and a paucity of primary research.  The
                    authors do not consider the Klan an irrational response to modernization; rather, it was a quite
                    understandable, if simplistic, response. Klansmen were hardly as innocent as Boy Scouts, and many
                    were intolerant and narrow-minded; but interpretations that describe the Klan as a fringe movement
                    reflect the biases of historians rather than the realities of the 1920s Klan.
            Lay's book is well conceived, thoroughly researched, and eloquently written. Indiana readers
                    will find it of particular interest because the Klan reached its apogee in the Hoosier State. The
                    interpretation of the contributors is not altogether new, nor is it certain that the conclusions
                    about the Klan in the West, which produced only 7 percent of Klan members, apply to the entire
                    nation. Nonetheless, The Invisible Empire in the West is a valuable corrective
                    grounded in substantial primary research that provides new facts as well as a more realistic
                    interpretation. The fact that the Klan was relatively mainstream makes it all the more disturbing;
                    it would have been less dangerous if it had been an aberration.
            GLEN JEANSONNE, professor of history at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    -
                        Milwaukee
                    , has written six books and forty articles. His most recent book is Messiah
                        of the Masses: Huey P. Long and the Great Depression (1992).
         
         
            
               Engendering Culture: Manhood and Womanhood in New Deal Public Art and Theater.
                    By Barbara Melosh. (
                        Washington
                    , D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1991. Pp. xiii, 297. Illustrations, appendix,
                    notes, index. Clothbound, $60.00; paper-bound, $24.95.)
            The fact that Barbara Melosh announces in the introduction to this work that her purpose is to
                    "investigate gender representations in New Deal culture through a study of the paintings,
                    sculptures, and plays produced under two New Deal-sponsored programs, the Treasury Section of Fine
                    Arts and the Federal Theatre Project" (p. 5) indicates scholars finally have reached a
                    sophisticated level of scholarship about the 1930s. Marlene Park and Gerald E. Markowitz's
                        Democratic Vistas: Post Office and Public Art in the New Deal (1984) provided
                    a useful overview of the most widespread public art program in American history. Since that time, a
                    few other works on the murals have appeared with a regional orientation. Now, Melosh surveys the
                    murals along with plays produced by the Federal Theater to argue "for critical theory
                    grounded in historical evidence" (p. 8) while examining New Deal culture "as a
                    source that illuminates both feminism's decline and liberal reform" (p. 3).
            Melosh locates her discussion somewhere between "postmodernists"—a term
                    she uses rather than "poststructuralist" because she wants to include
                    "cultural developments outside the realm of literary criticism" (p.
                    9)—and "materialists," with just a bit of a  kind of "reader-response" theory added, although here
                    it might be better called "viewer-response" to indicate the postal patrons who saw
                    the murals and the theater audiences who witnessed the plays. To develop her argument, Melosh posits
                    an indicator against which the art works and plays will be gauged: "the ideal of sexual
                    complementarity that dominates New Deal-sponsored renditions of pioneers and agrarians. The
                    comradely ideal, as I have called it, touted women's contributions even as it finessed
                    difficult questions of sexual equality" (p. 11).
            If a single overwhelming goal for this work can be suggested, it is the pursuit of "the
                    comradely ideal" in the murals, the plays, and, perhaps most importantly, in the day-to-day
                    interchanges between the artists and the administrators of the Section of Fine Arts. Unfortunately,
                    records comparable to the boxes of letters, forms, newsletters, and other miscellany from the
                    section do not exist for the Federal Theatre Project. Consequently Melosh must base much of her
                    theatrical comments on contemporary reviews, occasional production notes, and a scattering of
                    letters from directors about particular nuances given to a particular production. This is not to say
                    that the commentary about the Federal Theatre Project is less valid, but more is said about the
                    murals than about the plays.
            In her most important chapter, "Women, Art, and Ideology," Melosh develops a useful
                    assessment of the place and role of the woman artist in the artistic and administrative milieu of
                    the 1930s in order to "examine representations of womanhood as they were constructed and
                    negotiated by artists, Section administrators, and a diverse public [and] consider women's
                    relationship to what I call an aesthetic of containment, investigating female artist's uses
                    of the prevailing vocabularies of gender" (p. 204). Unfortunately, the assessment is not a
                    happy one. Although the section was more open to works of women artists and would not accept many
                    traditional formats, such as allegorical female nudes, the women artists "left few traces
                    of a recognizably female vision, instead registering the differences of sex only by their selective
                    use of a tradition defined by male artists, critics, and spectators", (p. 220).
            JOHN C. CARLISLE is professor of English at Purdue
                    University Calumet. He is working on The Caboose in the Cornfield and Other Hoosier
                        Highway Delights, a book devoted to material culture artifacts found along US. 40 from 
                        Richmond
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 1–65 from 
                        Louisville
                     to Gary.
         
         
            
               Ill–Advised: Presidential Health and Public Trust. By Robert H.
                    Ferrell. (
                        Columbia
                    , Mo.: University of Missouri Press, 1992. Pp. xii, 205. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $19.95.)
            The personal physicians of presidents have often given their patients poor care and have not been
                    loath to tell the public outright lies about the state of presidential health. These are the key
                    conclusions of Robert H. Ferrell in this fascinating book.
            
            Eight case histories provide Ferrell with his evidence. Brief accounts, less than ten pages each, are
                    given of the health problems of Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    , Woodrow Wilson, Warren Harding, John Kennedy, Ronald Reagan, and George Bush.
                    Twenty-one pages are devoted to 
                        Franklin
                     Roosevelt's illnesses. The most detailed and freshest account, nearly a
                    hundred pages, chronicles Dwight Eisenhower's heart attacks, stroke, and Crohn's
                    disease.
            Besides using the considerable published literature on the theme of presidential health, Ferrell has
                    explored many manuscript collections and conducted numerous interviews. His writing has a crisp
                    explicitness and a forthrightness in making judgments. He suggests that, on health grounds, Wilson
                    should not have been nominated in 1912, nor Harding in 1920, nor Roosevelt for a fourth term, nor
                    Eisenhower for a second. He makes clear that, prior to Kennedy's running for the
                    presidency, his Addison's disease and back problems were much greater handicaps than
                    publicly acknowledged. Calculated cover-ups kept citizens deceived as to the gravity of
                    Kennedy's medical problems and those of many other presidents. Improper treatment,
                    according to the best medical standards of the day, frequently occurred because presidential
                    physicians were long-standing personal friends rather than the nation's best qualified
                    practitioners. When specialists were called in, their advice was sometimes modified because of
                    political concerns. Kennedy for a time was treated by a dispenser of amphetamine "pep
                    pills" whom one of his own nurses termed "absolutely a quack" (p. 157).
            Indiana comes into Ferrell's account through two vice-presidents who might have stepped up
                    had health problems forced presidents to step down. Former Indiana governor Thomas Marshall, after
                    Wilson's debilitating stroke, inquired each morning as to the president's health
                    but did not see him again until the day Wilson turned over the reins of government to Harding. The
                    question of Bush's health did not become so great an issue in the 1992 election as
                    predicted on 
                  
                            Ill-
                        Advised's jacket. Had it done so, the issue of J. Danforth
                    Quayle's competence to assume the presidency might have received more emphasis during the
                    campaign.
            Ferrell deplores the lack of candor, the deliberate deception, about presidential health through the
                    decades, as he regrets the frequent mismanagement of presidential therapy. He endorses a suggestion
                    earlier made, that, to ensure competence, appointment of the president's personal physician
                    should require concurrence of the Senate.
            JAMES HARVEY YOUNG, Candler Professor
                    Emeritus, Emory University, writes concerning the history of American food and drug regulation. American Health Quackery, a collection of his essays, was published in 1992 by 
                        Princeton
                     University Press.
         
         
         
            
               Who's Your Hoosier Ancestor? Genealogy for Beginners. By Mona Robinson. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1992. Pp. x, 215. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    suggested reading, index. Clothbound, $27.95; paperbound, $12.95.)
            
               Editor's note: Because of the importance of genealogy to Indiana's
                        history the editors of the Indiana Magazine of History invited three experts
                        to review this book. We are grateful to Thomas Hamm, John D. Beatty, and Susan Miller Carter for
                        their contributions.
            Genealogy is, by some estimates, now the third most popular hobby in the 
                        United States
                    . It is also one that has particular connections with history. At their best,
                    genealogists work with the same kinds of records and wrestle with the same questions of proof and
                    verification as do historians. Many archives and research libraries find that genealogists are by
                    far their largest group of patrons; many historical societies are made up mostly of people pursuing
                    family history. (Well over half of the Indiana Historical Society's members indicate an
                    interest in genealogy.) Some historians, however, view genealogists with scarcely disguised distrust
                    and dismay; "genie" stories are a staple of archival conferences. For that reason,
                    it is encouraging to see a respected academic publisher such as Indiana University Press issue such
                    a book.
            Unfortunately, this work has major problems. There is a real need for a specialized guide that will
                    lead genealogists through the intricacies and peculiarities of working with Indiana records. Mona
                    Robinson's book does some of these things. But it contains so many errors both of omission
                    and commission that its value is suspect.
            First of all, this book desperately needed a thorough reading by a knowledgeable 
                        United States
                     historian. There are just too many mistakes. Ohio is not listed among the states formed
                    out of the Northwest Territory. The Treaty of 
                        Paris
                     ending the Revolutionary War came in 1783, not 1787. Arthur St. Clair was governor of
                    the Northwest Territory, not the Ohio Territory, in 1792, and St. Marys is in northwestern, not
                    northeastern, 
                        Ohio
                    . Interstate 65 only remotely parallels the Michigan Road. There are far too many
                    others.
            More serious are the errors that will lead genealogists astray. The County Records of Indiana
                    Microfilming Project (CRIMP) did not end in 1990. The 1807 territorial census does not include the
                    number of people in each household. The 1850 census does not include parents' birthplaces.
                    The 1860 Indiana census, in the opinion of everyone I consulted, is not "notoriously
                    difficult" to read (p. 137). On page 139, Robinson says that Indiana birth records do not
                    begin until 1907, even though on page 124 she has correctly stated that they begin in 1882. Reading
                    page 125 would make one think that there are no death records in county health departments after
                    1899, when in fact they are there. Although the Genealogy 
                    Division of the Indiana State Library has an excellent collection of census microfilm, it is not
                    complete for every state through 1920. A call to the Division of Vital Records of the Indiana State
                    Board of Health brought assurances that their marriage records begin in 1958, while Robinson says
                    that they go back to 1882.
            Perhaps most disappointing is what the work does not mention, things peculiar to Indiana that one
                    would not find in general genealogical "how to" manuals. The discussion of county
                    histories on pages 152–55 is good, but there is no mention of the wonderful every-name
                    indexes of Indiana county histories begun by the Works Progress Administration (WPA) in the 1930s
                    and completed in the 1980s by the Indiana Historical Society and the 
                        Allen County
                     Public Library. Even more disturbing is the omission of the indexes of birth, death,
                    and marriage records up to 1920 for most Indiana counties done by the WPA, a basic starting point
                    for most Hoosier genealogists. Another disservice to readers is the lack of any mention of the
                    excellent 1860 census index done by the Indiana Historical Society. Then there is
                    Robinson's discussion of probate records, which is good as far as it goes, but ignores one
                    of Indiana's nineteenth-century peculiarities. By law, county clerks kept two sets of
                    probate books—order books, which provide a bare-bones outline of actions relating to an
                    estate, and complete records, which contain transcripts of every document relating to an estate,
                    compiled at the time of settlement. The latter are often more accessible and more easily used than
                    the original files of estate papers. Yet Robinson says nothing about them.
            This book is not all bad. The section on cemeteries and reading tombstones is first-rate. Also
                    welcome is the author's insistence on careful note taking and citation of sources. This
                    reviewer hopes, however, that Robinson will reconsider her emphasis on photocopying—the
                    last thing that many increasingly fragile courthouse and library volumes need is that stress. This
                    is not "genealogy for beginners", however. I recommend the book only to the most
                    experienced genealogists who will be able to separate the useful from the erroneous and misleading.
            THOMAS D. HAMM is archivist and associate professor of history
                    at Earlham College in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana. He currently serves as chairman of the Genealogical Publications Committee of
                    the Indiana Historical Society.
            ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗
            Ever since the booming interest in genealogy began in the mid-1970s, a need has existed for a
                    comprehensive guidebook for the novice wishing to begin research in Indiana. Mona
                    Robinson's Who's Your Hoosier Ancestor represents the latest and
                    possibly most lengthy effort to date in the quest of this objective.
            
            Robinson divides her book into two parts. She devotes the first section to a brief but necessary
                    historical overview of the state, framed to the interests of the genealogist. She discusses
                    historical topography and boundaries, Native Americans, early settlement patterns and ethnic groups,
                    providing important background information and adding a section of notes for further reading. In one
                    chapter on emigrant trails, she lists the major roads that existed during Indiana's
                    formative years, who used them, and how they affected the state's settlement and growth.
                    The novice and experienced alike can benefit from the clues provided about possible ancestral
                    origins and migration routes.
            The second part of Robinson's book focuses on specific sources for genealogical research.
                    Included are chapters on military, church, cemetery, county, and census records, as well as a
                    section on secondary county histories. In a readable, straightforward style, Robinson illustrates
                    the genealogical value of each record type while warning of its limitations. For example, her
                    section on cemetery research, arguably the best in the book, includes practical advice on how to
                    decipher tombstone inscriptions, how to locate cemeteries, how to look for evidence of possible
                    relationships based on tombstone arrangements, and what type of apparel to wear when doing field
                    work. Robinson cautions the novice correctly that carved information is sometimes wrong and should
                    be verified, when possible, from other sources.
            But where Robinson succeeds with her explanations, she sometimes stumbles by failing to mention a
                    crucial resource for a particular record group. In explaining the value of county histories, she
                    misleads the reader when she writes that these sources "are indexed only by broad
                    classifications" and that it can be "time consuming to locate an individual in an
                    unindexed volume" (p. 155). She seems unaware of the Indexes of Persons and
                        Firms, which provide every-name access to most of Indiana's county histories, as
                    well as the Indiana Biographical Index, a similar though distinct index on
                    microfiche. Both of these are basic sources for the beginner, and their omission remains a serious
                    flaw.
            Several other sections are also bereft of references to key sources. In discussing vital records,
                    Robinson makes no mention of the typescript indexes by the Works Project Administration available in
                    most genealogical libraries. In her section on wills, she fails to mention the nine-volume Indiana Wills Index through 1880, a basic starting-point in doing probate
                    research. She ignores the vast amount of periodical literature for the state, the valuable records
                    often published there, and the Periodical Source Index (PERSI) that provides
                    genealogical access to most of it. Her section on church records contains no reference to L. C.
                    Rudolph and Judith Endelman's Religion in Indiana (1986), the most
                    authoritative guide to the state's religious archives.
            
            In spite of these problems, much of Robinson's approach is worthy of commendation, She
                    offers well-written discussions of those research methodologies essential for every novice to learn
                    before beginning research. Her expertise is clearly in the area of primary, rather than secondary
                    sources. Her book could have been made better had the publisher consulted other genealogists about
                    the sources used and omitted and then made the necessary additions before going to press.
            JOHN D. BEATTY is a reference librarian in the Reynolds
                    Historical Genealogy Department of the 
                        Allen County
                     Public Library. He is the author of several books and articles, including
                    "Genealogical Research in Indiana," which was published in the National Genealogical Society Quarterly (1991). He also serves on the editorial board of
                    the Indiana Genealogist magazine.
            ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗
            The publication of Who's Your Hoosier Ancestor? Genealogy for Beginners
                    holds great promise. Those who have Hoosier ancestors or who help others find forebears with Hoosier
                    roots would appreciate a comprehensive, up-to-date, and factual volume to guide the search. Because
                    the book is published by scholarly Indiana University Press, expectations are high.
            Although the book has weaknesses, author Mona Robinson succeeds overall in meeting her goal
                    "to present the means and methods for locating elusive ancestors who once lived in
                    Indiana" (page ix). Robinson, genealogical researcher and newspaper genealogy columnist,
                    has produced a serviceable guide. She covers a broad array of topics that concern beginning
                    researchers.
            The first five chapters are packed with information on geography, Indians, boundaries, emigrant
                    trails, and immigrants. One cannot successfully isolate family history research from a general
                    historical survey. It is historical background that gives the researcher a basis upon which to
                    conduct genealogical inquiry. Chapters six through nine treat topics typically associated with
                    genealogical research: military, church and cemetery, county, and census records. In addition to a
                    discussion of the availability of records, the author also includes useful ideas on the genealogical
                    value of various record types and a summary of potential problems with their use.
            The chapter on military records draws on information from Carolynne L. Wendel Miller's Indiana Sources for Genealogical Research (1984). Unfortunately, Robinson confuses
                    the locations of records housed by several distinct entities in the State Library and Historical
                    Building: the library of the Indiana Historical Society, the Indiana State Archives, and the Indiana
                    State Library. The location and holdings of these agencies frequently perplex researchers,  but to have this confusion perpetuated in print is a blow both
                    to beginning genealogists and to the institutions involved.
            The last two chapters might have been even more helpful had they been located earlier in the book
                    since the topics they cover are so fundamental. They are "Indiana County Histories and
                    Other Sources" which includes libraries along with city directories, newspapers and
                    mortuaries, and "Basic Genealogical Principles." The tenth chapter treats
                    "other sources" and contains dated or incorrect material in the address list of
                    Indiana societies and libraries. A more carefully checked and updated list would have been a greater
                    service to researchers. Also, the Works Progress Administration (WPA) consolidated indexes to county
                    histories and the WPA indexes to births, marriages and deaths, indispensable tools for genealogy
                    research in libraries, are not mentioned specifically by name. This would have been a logical
                    inclusion, given the thorough treatment Robinson gives many other resources.
            Robinson concludes by sharing sensible suggestions with the novice. For example, she recommends
                    contacting research facilities in advance to arrange for a visit, an excellent idea for those on a
                    tight schedule. There is always a disparity between research to be done and time available.
                    Robinson's practical tips will repay the reader who heeds them.
            Taken as a whole, the effect of Who's Your Hoosier Ancestor? on genealogy
                    in Indiana should be positive. The beginning researcher who reads the book will gain a foundation
                    from which to work and will benefit from Robinson's years of work with family history. The
                    how-to tips and warnings about possible research and documentation pitfalls will serve beginners
                    well. Inclusion of incorrect or dated information and omission of valuable resources are
                    regrettable, however, since they will slow novice researchers and will compromise the
                    book's credibility.
            SUSAN MILLER CARTER is head of the Local and
                    Indiana History Department of the 
                        Plainfield
                     Public Library. She serves as Hendricks County historian and is a member of the
                    Genealogy Publications Committee of the Indiana Historical Society.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Indiana's Best: An Illustrated Celebration of the Indiana State Fairgrounds,
                        1852–1992. By Paul Miner. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Prompt Publications, an imprint of Howard W. Sams & Company, 1992. Pp. vii,
                    328. Illustrations, tables, index. Paperbound, $19.95. Order from Howard W. Sams
                    & Company, 2647 Waterfront Parkway East Drive, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , IN 46214.) There are few places in Indiana history where the features of continuity
                    and change are so vividly illustrated as in the Indiana State Fair. This book shows traditions and
                    changes in hogs, corn, farm implements, horse racing, crafts, food, entertainment, and socializing,
                    particularly by means of fascinating illustrations. Although the volume does not attempt the kind of
                    sustained historical analysis found in Karal Ann Marling's recent book on the Minnesota
                    State Fair, there is more than enough here to begin serious thinking about one of the
                    state's oldest and most revealing institutions. James H. Madison, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Martin County, Indiana, U.S.A.: A Photo Documentation. By Bill Whorrall. (Shoals,
                    Ind.: the author, 1992. Pp. 207. Illustrations. Paperbound, $22.95. Order from Bill
                    Whorrall, R.R. 3, Box 24, Shoals, IN 47581.)
            There is a great deal of the past as well as present in Bill Whorrall's photographs of
                    Martin County, as Thomas E. Rodgers notes in his introduction to this volume. Set in the hills of
                    southern Indiana, this particular place is more obviously particular than most, and Whorrall does an
                    excellent job of capturing the distinctiveness of people and place, from barbershops and basketball
                    to churches and cars. This volume builds on Whorrall's earlier Woven Hills
                        & Quilted Rocks: Folk Artists in Martin County, Indiana (1991). James
                        H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               A Passionate Eye and a Public Spirit: Kurt F. Pantzer and the J. M. W. Turner
                    Collection. By Jane Graham and Martin Krause. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    : 
                        Indianapolis
                     Museum of Art, 1992]. Pp. 36. Illustrations. Booklet, $6.83. Order from
                    Allison Museum Shop, 1200 West 38th Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , IN 46208.) 
                        Indianapolis
                     has been blessed by generous and farsighted citizens who developed a passion for
                    collecting art. One was Kurt F. Pantzer (1892–1979), a lawyer who in the 1930s began
                    acquiring the works of the English  artist J. M. W. Turner, the
                    results of which now form the distinguished collection of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Museum of Art. This interesting booklet marks the centennial of Pantzer's
                    birth with a biographical essay by Jane Graham and an overview of the Turner collection by Martin
                    Krause. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Catholic Clergy in Indiana: A Necrology of Those Who Served In the Archdiocese of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Formerly the Diocese of 
                            Vincennes
                        
               . By William F. Stineman and Jack W. Porter. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Saint John the Evangelist Church, 1992. Pp. x, 189. Index. Paperbound,
                    $25.00, plus $5.00 shipping. Order from St. John Church, 126 West 
                        Georgia
                     Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , IN, 46225.) The two priests at St. John Catholic Church in downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                     checked tombstones, archives, and other scattered sources to compile biographical data
                    on the bishops, diocesan and regular priests, and deacons who ministered in the 
                        Vincennes
                     Diocese, now called the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Archdiocese. Family historians will use it to verify the name of an officiating cleric
                    on a civil or church record. Other historians will consult it to formulate generalizations on ethnic
                    origin, composition, age, education, length of service, and movement of Catholic clergy in much of
                    Indiana. The authors not only provide readers with the first systematic publication of this basic
                    material, they also offer an annual newsletter to update, correct, and add to this prime reference
                    source. James J. Divita, Marian College, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               .
            
               Letters and Diaries of Bob Martindale: Volume I, Military School;
                    Volume II, Whimsy and Fate; Volume III, Zagreb, A Consul
                        General's Journal; Volume IV, Nogales, A Consul General's
                        Journal; Volume V, Walking Hat, A Consul General's Journal;
                    Volume VI, Tales from Maga, Variations on Letters & Diaries. By Bob
                    Martindale. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Gateway Press, Inc., 1990, 1991, 1992. Pp. [vii], 194; 163; 232; 228; 166; 173.
                    Illustrations. Paperbound.) These volumes of Bob Martindale's essays, letters, and diaries
                    begin with his first year at Culver Military Academy and extend through his studies and travels in
                    Europe to his military service in World War II and foreign service after. The style and subject
                    matter make for interesting reading. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
         
         
         
            CALL FOR PAPERS
            The 1994 conference of the Indiana Association of Historians will be held February 25–26
                    in New Harmony, Indiana. The conference theme is "Democracy in Historical
                    Perspective." Proposals for papers dealing with aspects of that theme are encouraged, but
                    other topics may be proposed. Participants need not be members of the IAH or Indiana residents. A
                    one–page abstract should be submitted by 
                        September 24, 1993,
                     to Dr. Robert L. Reid, Program Committee Chairperson, University of Southern Indiana, 8600
                    University Blvd., Evansville, IN 47712.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
