
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 38, Issue 3, pages 225-334. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:38+issue:3+year:1942&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            
               
                        New Harmony
                     and the American Spirit1
            
            LOUIS MARTIN SEARS
            
            We are met in a spot consecrated to ideals. The Rappites came in the dissidence of religious dissent.
                    The Owenites founded their colony as a protest against economic determinism. Both colonies had an
                    economic foundation. With the Rappites this foundation was sound and remarkably successful. The
                    Owens at New Lanark, in 
                        Scotland
                    , had their economic triumphs, too. Only accumulated wealth made possible their Indiana
                    venture. But neither economic theory nor economic practice is the major claim of either colony to
                    the remembrance of posterity. Man does not live by bread alone. Successive generations master this
                    great truth in a revelation perpetually renewed. All mankind in 1942 confronts that lesson. Economic
                    greed precipitates the world's fresh conflagration. To meet the challenge all mankind
                    assembles not only economic resources, but also the resources of the spirit. Oil, rubber, tin are
                    economic objectives in a warring world. But far transcending these are the spiritual forces released
                    throughout mankind to insure that this shall somehow be a decent world for decent men to occupy. In
                    a time when unprecedented forces both of evil and of good are thus released, it is appropriate for
                    us in Indiana to gather at a shrine where memories are crystallized of more than local import.
            Pilgrims to this town of memories do well to link its dedication, first under the Rappites to
                    religious freedom; second, under the Owenites to a genuine social democracy, in harmony with the
                    larger idealism of the American people. For the American people would not still be cherishing the
                    influences clustering about 
                        New Harmony
                     were not these 
                  
                     1 A paper read on March 19, 1942, at commemorative exercises held in 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana.
               
                     influences in large measure typical of an American idealism as
                    such which from 1607 and 1620 to the present day has shone with varying brilliance but has never
                    been totally eclipsed. It is with some of these ideals that we are concerned.
            First beyond all rivalry among American ideals is religious freedom. This was the self-proclaimed
                    reason of many of the pioneers from 
                        Plymouth
                     to 
                        New Harmony
                     for tearing up the fond traditions of a motherland or continent to venture into the
                    wilderness of North America. If modern economic research discovers economic motives as additional
                    incentives, it does nothing to overthrow the original assumption. For in all fairness, it may be
                    presumed that participants in great events, whether those events be migrations, wars, or
                    revolutions, have some idea of why they were thus engaged. And if they proclaim, as they repeatedly
                    did proclaim, that their settlements in America were inspired by religious motives, it is not only
                    courteous to their memory, it is also scientific, to assume that the self-proclaimed motive was the
                    true motive, and that additional stimuli, as revealed by scholarly research, were secondary, perhaps
                    so secondary as to lie in the realm of the subconscious.
            The vitality of this earlier religious impetus is apparent in a thousand ways in contemporary
                    America. The very multitude of religious foundations bears witness to the fact that freedom of
                    thought in religious matters still prevails. Even religious indifference, where it exists, bears
                    negative testimony to the essentials of religious freedom in America. And it is unquestionably true
                    that the Neopaganism of Hitler, Alfred Rosenberg, and other gangster enemies of Christianity in 
                        Germany
                    , whether that Christianity is expressed by the Protestant Pastor Martin Niemoeller, or
                    the Roman Catholic Cardinal Michel von Faulhaber, is in no small degree responsible for a crusading
                    spirit which now is animating the whole of western civilization, and which finds active expression
                    in our own America. For America, whether it is the land of the Pilgrims, or the America of the
                    Rappites, is a land of religious feeling. That religious feeling, however it may be sublimated by
                    modern modes of religious expression, was present in the Expeditionary Force in 1917. And it is much
                    alive today. The defender of Bataan, the defender of Iceland, goes about his heroic or his routine
                    task only partly conscious of his ideologies. But the will to defend an America,  free in its religion, and to emancipate a world, its religion manacled,
                    constitutes him a crusader in as true a sense as the men who accompanied Bohemond or Baldwin or
                    Tancred or King Richard on their road to Palestine. Thus religion, whether sublimated or avowed,
                    remains a leavening force in the America of today.
            If 
                        New Harmony
                     of the Rappites is a link in America's great tradition of religious freedom, 
                        New Harmony
                     of the Owenites is equally a link in that other great American tradition, namely of
                    social democracy. True it is that America is not completely a democracy. 
                        Plymouth
                     may have been a democracy, but the same was scarcely true of 
                        Massachusetts
                     Bay. Various colonies were frankly the nurseries of aristocracy, agricultural or
                    commercial. The social structure of the American Revolution was highly stratified. Early Federalists
                    made no concealment of their preference for monarchy. Slavocracy in the period previous to 1860 was
                    the antithesis of democracy. Capitalistic industrialism in the period previous to 1929 was not a
                    democracy in any economic sense. Sharecroppers and other backward groups today suggest important
                    economic maladjustments. Indeed, a major problem of our day is to achieve a greater economic
                    democracy without sacrificing the even more important conquests of political democracy in the
                    centuries since Magna Carta.
            Yet with all the inequalities that have marked and still do mark Americans, one great triumph of
                    democracy is recorded in the man-to-man approach to one another of citizens of low and high degree.
                    The great man dares not to be proud. The little man declines servility. Each recognizes the
                    essential manhood of the other. Each can say with Saint Paul, I am a citizen of no mean city. Each
                    knows he plays a part in a majestic panorama. Each feels that America is a land of opportunity in
                    which his children may reverse their stations. In the market place, the two are brothers in a sense
                    unknown abroad. It is this brotherhood, this simplicity of democracy, however great the
                    differentials of present fortune, that constitutes America's chief charm. It is the highest
                    of our social values. It was a value peculiarly dear to Robert Dale Owen and other leaders in 
                        New Harmony
                    . To have forwarded this ideal is one of the high services to their fellow men of the
                    founders of Owenite 
                        New Harmony
                    . Interesting letters survive in which Owen deplores the appearance  in 
                        New Harmony
                     of a certain snobbish spirit of social superiority and condescension. Social democracy
                    was a prime ingredient of the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment. The economic basis of 
                        New Harmony
                     eventually broke down, but its essential spirit of democracy pervades Indiana and the
                    nation. Other forces have wrought toward this good end, but the Owens and their fellow colonists
                    made a most effective contribution.
            This same Robert Dale Owen, more conspicuously than his father, was the sponsor of another great
                    American tradition, namely the faith in knowledge as an emancipator of the human spirit. Thanks to
                    Owen and his great colleague, William Maclure, Indiana had no need to await the philanthropies of
                    Andrew Carnegie. A whole chain of local libraries attested the public spirit of the Owenites.
                    Foremost among early Indiana liberals, Owen was a national figure and through his friendship for
                    Nicholas P. Trist, grandson by marriage to Thomas Jefferson, he represents a nexus between Indiana
                    liberalism and the national tradition which traced from Thomas Jefferson. The inheritance of
                    property through primogeniture and entails which was anathema to Jefferson was equally anathema to
                    Owen, whose efforts in behalf of democracy in Indiana parallel the master's in 
                        Virginia
                     and the nation.
            To the modern American, feminism appears so essentially a portion of the democratic process that it
                    is taken quite for granted. Yet feminism as we know it nationally is an evolutionary growth.
                    Certainly there was little feminism in seventeenth-century New 
                        England
                     when Mistress Ann Hutchinson, the most brilliant woman in 
                        Massachusetts
                     Bay, could be hounded from the colony by priestly zealots and fanatics. Nor is feminism
                    of record in the liberal eighteenth century, so intent on winning independence for our country. It
                    was in the nineteenth century that feminism gained its chief protagonists and only in the twentieth
                    century is the battle won so far as America is concerned. This new freedom achieved so belatedly is
                    even now under attack by the barbarism unleashed by Hitler.
            For us who pay tribute to the humane contributions of early Indiana liberalism as focused at 
                        New Harmony
                     it is a pleasure to note the stimulus to feminism inherent in the friendship between
                    Robert Dale Owen and his brilliant countrywoman,  Frances
                    Wright, who brought with her to America a burning zeal for social change and uplift. The course
                    charted for herself by Frances Wright in Victorian 
                        England
                    , or, for that matter, in Victorian America, was not too easy. The friendship of a brave
                    and independent spirit such as Owen's was an inspiration and a solace.
            In considering ideals so definitely traceable to the Rappites and their successors at 
                        New Harmony
                    , a candid and due regard for truth brings us face to face with one characteristic of
                    both groups at 
                        New Harmony
                     which has never been accepted generally by Americans. I refer to communism. The
                    Rappites in particular are esteemed the most successful among some two hundred communistic ventures
                    that have blossomed forth and faded in America. In their heyday, the Rappites were known for their
                    superior wines, whiskeys, and woolens. Collectively, they became very wealthy, fared sumptuously
                    with five meals daily, and devoted considerable surplus energy to the fine arts, including poetry.
            Celibacy, introduced in 1807 in a conviction that the millennium being so near at hand, further
                    procreation of the race was a matter of no concern, was responsible for the ultimate undoing of the
                    Rappites. Even so, their affairs were not liquidated until 1903. To survive for a full century under
                    so grave a handicap affords sufficient testimony to the immense initial impetus which George Rapp
                    contributed to his colony.
            It is this paternal guidance that explains the Rappites at the same time that it destroys their value
                    as examples to their countrymen at large. Rapp ruled his followers, whether in 
                        Butler
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Harmony, Indiana, or Economy, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , with all a father's authority over a disciplined and loving family, patterned
                    on the model of the Hebrew patriarchs. The communism of the Rappites was in essence the communism of
                    any united family. It was contingent on the unity and continuity of the family. The Golden Age of
                    the Rappites terminated with their leader's death in 1847.
            Whatever the citizen's views may be concerning communism as a fallacy or as an ultimate
                    ideal, it seems fair to conclude that the Rappites afford slight evidence pro or con. Their
                    experiment was local. It was conditioned by the religious  views
                    of its members and by the influence of a personality of extraordinary power.
            In short the Rappites in their economic life provide a local, not a national example. Even locally,
                    it did not assure successful imitation. For the 
                        New Harmony
                     of the Owenites, which possessed some communistic ideals certainly, is far inferior to
                    its Rappite predecessor as an example of communistic practice. Indispensable ingredients were
                    apparently lacking. Religious fervor was conspicuously absent. Nor was Robert Owen or any of his
                    children the Old Testament patriarch to give a driving force to a second Rappite colony. In short,
                    the Rappites were a people of a peculiar savor unto the Lord, and their duplicate is not likely to
                    appear.
            One more glance at 
                        New Harmony
                     and we are finished. Under the Owenites particularly, it became a center of Indiana and
                    of national culture. The "Boatload of Knowledge," bringing with it
                    leaders" in so many arts and sciences, is still remembered for the impetus that it gave to
                    American culture. 
                        New Harmony
                     of a hundred years ago possessed so many men and women of personal distinction, persons
                    who had mastered the art of living richly, that we today who grope our way through innumerable
                    perplexities turn to these early humanists for a better comprehension of our present problems. 
                        New Harmony
                     thus remains not only a place of pilgrimage for the antiquarian, but a factor in the
                    creation and the preservation of the American spirit.
         
         
         
            Contributions to American Literature by Hoosiers of German Ancestry1
            
            OSCAR L. BOCKSTAHLER
            
            In the formative period of Indiana, the major portion of its foreign-born population was composed of
                    Germans. These early immigrants and their descendants have made valuable contributions to the life
                    and culture of the state in many fields. They have been among the state's most loyal and
                    most prosperous citizens. In every field of endeavor these thrifty, peaceful, and ingenious people
                    have served their adopted home without reservation. Conditions similar to those that exist today in 
                        Germany
                     caused a large number of these people to come to this country. They came because they
                    could obtain here freedom to pursue life, liberty, and happiness. They have fought for democratic
                    principles with tongue and pen, and thousands have laid down their lives that these principles might
                    be preserved.2
            
            Their work has been particularly noteworthy in the field of literature, a field in which the
                    significance of Indiana artists has been recognized. The great number of writers that Indiana has
                    produced and the thousands of volumes created by their pens has led historians of literature to
                    speak of a Hoosier school of writers.3 Many of these are of Germanic 
                  
                     1 In the preparation of this paper, the writer gratefully acknowledges
                            his indebtedness to the Research Department of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Public Library; to W. A. Alexander, Curator of the Hoosier Collection of
                            Indiana University; and to Frank Davidson, Professor of American Literature, Indiana
                            University, for the use of his files and notes.
                  
                     2The following table indicates the importance of the German element in
                            Indiana: 
                        
                           Year
                           Natives of Germany
                           Total Foreign Born
                           Total Population
                        
                        
                           1850
                           29,324
                           54,426
                           988,416
                        
                        
                           1860
                           66,705
                           118,184
                           1,350,428
                        
                        
                           1880
                           80,756
                           144,178
                           1,978,301
                        
                        
                           1900
                           73,546
                           142,121
                           2,516,462
                        
                        
                           1930
                           28,152
                           135.134
                           3,238,503
                        
                      These statistics are taken from the census reports of the 
                                United States
                            : Seventh Census, 1850, p. xxxvii; Eighth Census,
                                1860, I, 130; Tenth Census, 1880, I, 492–93; Twelfth Census, 1900, I, 732–33, and Fifteenth
                                Census, 1930, 720–21. The latter report is for foreign-born whites. See
                            also Theodore Stempfel, Fünfzig Jahre Unermüdlichen
                                Deutschen Strebens in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898).
                  
                     3Minnie O. Williams, Indiana Authors (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), on an unnumbered page in the front of the hook, lists about 150 Indiana
                            writers; Edward J. Hamilton (comp.), Indiana Writers of 
                  
               
                     descent. Many have made distinct contributions to American
                    literature.
            Perhaps the first German writer and scholar to make his contribution to the cultural life of Indiana
                    was Dr. Joseph Neef, who attempted to introduce and popularize the teachings of the famous Johann H.
                    Pestalozzi. Neef came to the 
                        United States
                     about 1806, and two years later published his Sketch of a Plan and Method
                        of Education.4 He founded the first Pestalozzi School in America at the
                    Falls of the Schuykill in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1809. Four years later, in the same year that his second book, Method
                        of Instructing Children,5 appeared, he moved his school to Village
                    Green, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . In 1826, at the request of Robert Owen, Dr. Neef moved his school again, this time to 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana. When the 
                        New Harmony
                     project failed, he left the state for a few years, but returned in 1834 to spend the
                    remainder of his life in 
                        New Harmony
                    . He was an ardent follower of Pestalozzi and did his best to spread and establish his
                    master's ideas through publications and lectures. Many of the accomplishments of the Owen
                    family were the outgrowth of Neef's ideas, and his influence assumed national
                        proportions.6
            
            In this early pioneer period, 
                        Lexington
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , was for many years the literary capital of the West. 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     gradually drew this leadership to themselves, especially in the publishing and dramatic
                    fields, but the creative literary center shifted to Indiana.7
            
            
               
                  Poems and Prose (
                            Chicago
                        , 1902), includes 200 Indiana writers; Blanche F. Boruff (comp.), Women
                            of Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1941), lists more than 400 women writers of Indiana. At the Pan-American
                        Exposition the Indiana Building contained about 15,000 volumes by Indiana writers.
               
                  4
                        Sketch of a Plan and Method of Education, founded on an Analysis of Human Faculties
                            and Natural Reason, Suitable for the Offspring of a Free People and for all Rational
                        Beings (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1808).
               
                  5
                        Method of Instructing Children Rationally, in the Arts of Writing and Reading (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1813).
               
                  6Meredith Nicholson, The Hoosiers (
                            New York
                        , 1915), 105–07, 115; Robert F. Seybolt, "Francis Joseph
                        Nicholas Neef," in Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                            New York
                        . 1928–1936), XIII (1934), 402; Robert D. Owen, Threading My
                            Way (
                            New York
                        , 1874), 283–84; Charles H. Wood, "First Disciple of Pestalozzi
                        in America," in Indiana School Journal (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1856–1900), XXXVII (1892), 659–65.
               
                  7 William T. Coggeshall (ed.), The Poets and Poetry of the
                            West (
                            New York
                        , 1864), 14; Nicholson, The Hoosiers, 246–47;
                        "Literary and Artistic Enterprises in 
                            Cincinnati
                        ," by "A Septuagenarian," in Genius of the
                            West (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1853–1856), IV (1855), 193–97; William T. Coggeshall,
                        "Literary Enterprises in 
                            Cincinnati
                        ," in ibid., V (1856), 97–100 and
                        130–33; Ralph L. Rusk, The Literature of the Middle Western 
               
            
            
            Among the first poets to sing about pioneer life in the Hoosier state was Amanda Louisa Ruter. She
                    was born on a farm in Indiana, and here, while she played on the "knobs," rhymes
                    came to her before she could read. A precocious child, she used her father's library,
                    taught herself Latin, and expressed her thoughts in verse. After teaching school for a few years she
                    married Oliver Dufour. A child of the West by birth, education, residence, and culture, Mrs. Dufour
                    found time, despite cares and hardships, to write "out of the fullness of her
                    heart." Many of her poems were of a devotional nature, containing graceful imagery and
                    breathing the spirit of genuine emotion. The undaunted optimistic spirit of the pioneer, his steady
                    faith in himself and in the eternal goodness of the universe were ever present in her poetry.8
            
            During the period before 1850 a considerable portion of the population of southern Indiana migrated
                    from the southern states northward across the 
                        Ohio
                     River.9 In the field of literature, Maurice Thompson was the chief
                    Hoosier representative of this great movement. Although born in Indiana, he was by tradition a
                    southerner. His father, the Reverend Matthew Thompson, had migrated to Indiana and married Diantha
                    Jaeger, a young woman of German extraction. Soon after the birth of Maurice the family moved to 
                        Georgia
                    , where in a schoolless region, the boy's education was acquired from a mother
                    of unusual talents and from nature. At seventeen he joined the Confederate army and served with
                    distinction. After the war he studied law and civil engineering until the rigors of reconstruction
                    drove him penniless to 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana. For several years he worked on a railroad construction project and practiced
                        
                  
                     Frontier (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1925), I, 131–203 and 303–51; Orah C. Briscoe, The
                            Hoosisr School of Fiction, Part I; Indiana Fiction before 1870 (M. A. thesis, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1934), 3; Fred L. Pattee, The New American
                            Literature (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 73.
                  
                     8Her mother was Harriett Haas whose family had migrated from 
                                Germany
                             to 
                                Virginia
                            . Amanda was born near 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , Indiana, in 1822. Her father was a Methodist circuit rider. Coggeshall, Poets and Poetry of the West, 404–10. Shortly before the death
                            of Alexander von Humboldt in 1859, Mrs. Dufour wrote a commemoration to him addressing him
                            as the king of science, the latchet of whose shoe other kings were not worthy to unloose.
                  
                     9 By 1850 
                                Virginia
                             had sent 41,000 persons to Indiana; 
                                North Carolina
                             had sent 33,000; 
                                Kentucky
                            , 68,000; 
                                Tennessee
                            , 12,000; and 
                                South Carolina
                            , 4,000. Seventh Census, 1850, p. xxxvi.
               
                     law, with writing as his avocation. In later life, except for
                    those years when he was a member of the state legislature or when he served as state geologist, he
                    devoted his entire time to literature.2
            
            His southern background enabled him to understand the difficulties with which Hoosiers chose sides
                    during the slavery controversy and the Civil War.11 His dual sentiments were
                    expressed in such books as A Tallahassee Girl, His Second Campaign, A Banker of
                        Bankerville, and A Fortnight of Folly. Thompson's verses and
                    prose offerings were accepted by such publications as Scott's Monthly
                    Magazine, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune, and the Atlantic Monthly. During the last twelve years of his life he was
                    non-resident literary editor of the Independent. Critics have called Thompson the
                    poet naturalist of the West. He saw as a naturalist, imagined as a poet, and painted as an artist.
                    His reputation for letters was the most outstanding of his generation in the Middle West. But it was
                    his novel, Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
               , that climaxed his career with nation-wide popularity. It was an historical
                    romance based on the George Rogers Clark Expedition and one of the few novels treating that
                    outstanding historical event.
            William Vaughn Moody, a representative of the classical school of literature, was another Hoosier who
                    gained wide recognition. He was born in the southern part of the state, the son of a river boat
                    captain. His father's death, when the lad was seventeen, threw him entirely upon his own
                    resources. With courage and determination that would not be denied, he prepared himself to teach in
                    the rural schools. There was not a youth in the entire West who longed more for culture and
                    education than did young Moody. For him culture was only to be found in the East, in the 
                        Boston
                     of Emerson, Longfellow, and 
                        Lowell
                    . He believed that 
                        Harvard
                     University was the only school that fostered this culture. Finally he succeeded in
                    finding a position in 
                        New York
                     City where he prepared himself for 
                        Harvard
                    . There 
                  
                     10 Frank H. Ristine, "James Maurice Thompson," in
                                Dictionary of American Biography, XVIII (1936), 460–61. For
                            William Dean Howells' tribute to Thompson see National Cyclopedia of
                                American Biography (29 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1892–1941), XI (1901), 521–22.
                  
                     11 Edward C. Smith, The Borderland in the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1927), 323, 333–38; Albert L. Kohlmeier, The Old
                                Northwest as the Keystone of the Arch of the American Federal Union (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1938).
               
                     he feasted his soul on Latin and Greek classics, while
                    completing the university course in three years. He continued his education in 
                        Germany
                    , 
                        Switzerland
                    , 
                        Italy
                    , and 
                        Greece
                    . Upon his return to America, he took his Master's Degree and became a member
                    of the English department at 
                        Harvard
                    . From 1895 until his death in 1910 he was a member of the faculty of the University of 
                        Chicago
                    .12
            
            Despite the fact that Moody grew up in a section of the land where Christianity was the dominant
                    religion, Greek mythology at first ruled his mind. Early in life he conceived the idea of a trilogy
                    of poetic dramas dealing with the ways of God, and gods, with men. The Firebringers,
                        The Masque of Judgement, and the unfinished Death with Eve are the
                    results of his interest in this dual struggle between deities and human beings. Marguerite Wilkinson
                    declared that "Pandora's Song" from The Firebringers
                    was the finest short lyric ever written by an American.13
            
            Moody's life was a strange duality, for although born in the West, he found himself, like
                    William D. Howells, more at home in the East. His residence in 
                        Chicago
                     he considered an exile. Frequently he condemned that great city in flowing
                    superlatives, stating on one occasion, "
                        Chicago
                     is several kinds of hell."14 In 1901, however, he was
                    induced to spend some time with Hamlin Garland in the Rocky Mountains, and Garland's
                    enthusiasm and the gorgeous splendor of the Rockies made an impression upon him. The literary result
                    was The Great Divide, a prose drama wherein the poet at least became neutral and
                    described the clash between two phases of American democracy—the headlong flamboyant
                    iconoclastic West dashing itself against the Puritanic, rock-bound New Englandism, the conscience
                    and culture of the East. But the West with its youthful daring and charm seemed to be gradually
                    reclaiming him, for just before he died, in the Faith Healer, he even condescended
                    to dip over the Rockies into 
                        California
                    .
            Another proof of his amenability may be seen in his statement: "I am an
                    ancient—an irreconcilable enemy of 
                  
                     12 John M. Manly, "Introduction," in Poems and Plays of William Vaughn Moody (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1912), I; 
                                Norman
                             Foerster, "Later Poets," in 
                        
                                    Cambridge
                                 History of American Literature (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1936), III, 62–65; Montrose J. Moses, "The Drama,
                            1860–1918," in ibid., III, 290–91.
                  
                     13 Pattee, New American Literature, 203.
                  
                     14
                     Ibid., 201–02.
               
                     the Whitman verse mode; but your handling of it goes far to
                    prove me wrong and to baptize me into the new dispensation."15 The new
                    verse modes, however, would never withstand his methods of polishing and tonal testing. But the
                    events of the far Eastern situation at the turn of the century did find expression in his
                    "Ode in the Time of Hesitation," "On a Soldier fallen in the
                    Philippines," and "The Quarry." According to Fred L. Pattee,
                    "Unquestionably for twenty years he [Moody] was the leading American poet, the laureate of
                    the 'Time of Hesitation.'"16
            
            The broad expanse of the sparcely settled territory and the frontier life produced a type of culture
                    in the West of the nineteenth century that was very unique. Discovering its possibilities and its
                    powers, the West lost no time in telling the world about its land, its resources, its people, and
                    its opportunities. Many of the current expressions were crude, jangling, and vigorously democratic.
                    The whole procedure formed a distinct break with the traditions of the East as expressed by Henry
                    Wadsworth Longfellow, William Cullen Bryant, Oliver Wendell Holmes, and Ralph Waldo Emerson, who
                    were college-bred men—"
                        Boston
                     Gentlemen." Motivated with all the power of a tornado, the western literary
                    surge could not be denied or ignored. It found expression through such westerners as Walt Whitman,
                    Mark Twain, Joel Chandler Harris, James Whitcomb Riley, Brete Harte, John Hay, and Joaquin
                    Miller—men who were graduated from the farm, the mine, the printer's shop, and
                    the frontier. Two of these men who made a distinct impression upon nineteenth-century literature
                    were from Indiana and of German ancestry.
            James Whitcomb Riley found his subjects in the rural life and the small towns of Indiana which the
                    frontier of the far West had left behind. He was born of pioneer stock, his grandmother, Margaret
                    Sleek, being of German-English parentage.17 Spending several years as an
                    itinerant sign-painter, entertainer, and assistant to patent-medicine venders, he learned the
                    intimate life of the rural folk. He was a graduate of the "University of Hard
                    Knocks." It was a hard struggle to keep the wolf from the door, but again that 
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 201.
                  
                     16
                     Ibid., 203.
                  
                     17 Marcus Dickey, The Youth of James Whitcomb Riley (
                                Indianapolis
                            , c. 1919), 6–13; Will D. Howe, "James Whitcomb
                            Riley," in Dictionary of American Biography, XV (1935),
                        611.
               
                     characteristic American spirit of optimism and heroism that has
                    conquered mountains, streams, fever, and distance, and has wrested the precious treasures from the
                    depths of nature, would not be defeated. Perhaps the hard way along which he arose to prominence and
                    his great need of seeing the humorous side of a situation gave to many of his poems an optimistic or
                    even a humorous character. Although pathos is the prevailing note of his work he may be considered
                    one of the school of Hoosier humorists whose writings have added another chapter to American
                    literature.
            His knowledge and love of his fellowmen were reflected in such poems as "The Old
                    Swimmin' Hole," "An Old Sweetheart of Mine," and "The
                    Boys in the Old Glee Club." And who has not gone "Out to Old Aunt
                    Mary's" and helped himself to the contents of the cookie jar? His poems have a
                    sentimental and moral basis and have attracted to their author the love of the people. He made for
                    himself a permanent niche in the literature of America. His poems found their way into every hall of
                    learning, into every library, and into most of the homes of the Middle West. Professional critics
                    did not worry him. He appealed to the millions, not the few, and he became the
                    "People's Laureate."18
            
            In contrast to Riley was John Hay, a native of Indiana, who was born near 
                        Salem
                    , and whose father was of, German extraction.19The family moved to 
                        Illinois
                     during his youth, and from there he advanced to positions of greater and greater
                    importance. Concerning his training he said, "I was born in Indiana…, educated
                    in 
                        Rhode Island
                    ;… learned… my politics in 
                        Washington
                    , [and] my diplomacy in Europe, Asia and Africa."20 His
                    period of activity extended from the presidency of Abraham Lincoln, whose secretary he was, to
                    Theodore Roosevelt and the Treaty of Portsmouth. He was the trusted advisor of Grant, Garfield, and
                    McKinley. His genius, wisdom, and tact were demonstrated by the 
                  
                     18 Norman Foerster, "Later Poets," in 
                        
                                    Cambridge
                                 History of American Literature, III, 59; and Marcus Dickey, The Maturity of James Whitcomb Riley (
                                Indianapolis
                            , c. 1922). Riley's birthday is a state holiday. His home in 
                                Greenfield
                             is now a national shrine.
                  
                     19 "When I look to the springs from which my blood descends
                            the first ancestors I ever heard of were a Scotchman, who was half English, and a German
                            woman, who was half French." Addresses of John Hay (
                                New York
                            , 1906), 220; Alfred L. P. Dennis, "John Milton Hay," in Dictionary of American Biography, VIII (1932), 430–36.
                  
                     20
                            Addresses, 219–20.
               
                     variety of situations in which he proved himself so capable and
                    the greatly differing personalities whose confidence and esteem he held. Few secretaries of state
                    have made such a great impression upon the chancellories of the world as Hay. His "Open
                    Door Policy" in 
                        China
                     and his diplomatic acumen displayed in foreign affairs generally rendered great service
                    to American commerce and were important in securing the good will of other nations.21
            
            Like his life, his early work was related to the Middle West, for he became known as a poet through
                    his 
                  
                            Pike
                         Country Ballads. His poems "Little Breeches" and
                    "Jim Bludso" appeared in publication after publication.22 His
                    literary activities wandered as far from Indiana as the career of their author, and indeed from
                    rural life in the central West to the courts of foreign countries. While in 
                        Spain
                     as secretary of legation, Hay wrote Castilian Days, a book that
                    reflected his experiences at the Spanish court and brought about much-needed reforms in the American
                    diplomatic service. Between his appointments to various government posts at home and abroad, he was
                    night editor of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune, and had a contract with Century for —50,000,
                    which was an exceptional figure in those days.
            His publication, with John G. Nicolay, of Abraham Lincoln, A History was a work of
                    importance. Few were closer to Lincoln or understood the great man better than his private
                    secretary, who having the mind of a man of letters, could adequately express this intimate
                    knowledge. This work was a monumental contribution to a better understanding of this critical
                        period.23
            
            His interest in the conflicts engendered by the coming of the Industrial Revolution was illustrated
                    by his first venture in prose, The Bread Winners. One of that class of works
                    generally known as economic novels, it appeared anonymously in 1884 and Hay's name was not
                    placed on the title page until 1915. The prevalent spirit of commercial and political opportunism,
                    and the levity of the public mind 
                  
                     21 The career of John Hay has been well told in William R. Thayer, The Life and Letters of John Hay (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1915).
                  
                     22 For the position of Hay as a poet see Sister Saint Ignatius Ward,
                                The Poetry of John Hay (
                                Washington
                            , D. C., 1930).
                  
                     23 John G. Nicolay and John Hay, Abraham Lincoln, A
                                History (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1890); John S. Bassett, "Later Historians," in 
                        
                                    Cambridge
                                 History of American Literature, III, 182.
               
                     appeared to be dangerous to the author, who defended the right
                    of the individual to hold property against the "dangerous classes." Some
                    authorities have called it a satire upon labor unions, but the Hay family has always insisted that
                    Hay's statements were directed against the disorganization and demoralization of labor by
                    unscrupulous leaders and politicians who used labor to enrich themselves. In defense of Hay it may
                    be said that he was an ardent advocate of the new humanitarianism that became the striking
                    development of his time, and that he always thought highly of the American working man.24
            
            H. L. Mencken has classified the works of such writers as Gene Stratton Porter, Richard Harding
                    Davis. Emerson Hough, Robert W. Chambers, Edna Ferber, and Mary Roberts Rinehart, as the middle
                    layer of American literature.25 The elements entering into the "best
                    sellers" of these authors included a moral basis, a romantic and sentimental love interest,
                    an optimistic outlook on life, and a liberal sprinkling of specialized nature study.
            Mrs. Porter, who was a Hoosier of German extraction, placed her stories in the great open spaces of
                    the Middle West.26 Her works involved applied psychology, sociology, mental
                    hygiene, religion, and homespun philosophy. The problems of the selfish, crowded, and artificial
                    society of the cities, where personalities were crushed, did not exist. Nature and time brought
                    about happy solutions. This was especially true of Freckles, The Girl of the
                    Limberlost, and Pollyanna. This last title added a new word to the
                    nation's vocabulary and a new song, "Smile, Smile, Smile." Such books
                    were not written for the intellectual and the sophisticated. They were earnest, spontaneous, and
                    safe. They spoke the language of the people, who craved this idealistic unfolding of human
                    personality, despite the unfavorable comments of critics. They told of the "good old
                    times," and 
                  
                     24 Thayer, Life and Letters of John Hay, II,
                            1–15; Vernon L. Parrington, Main Currents in American Thought
                            (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , c. 1927), III, 173–79. Hay had seen a great strike in 1877 and in
                            this book he expressed his reaction to the situation. The book caused a nation-wide
                            controversy and was continually quoted both for and against Hay by labor as well as by
                            capital.
                  
                     25 Henry L. Mencken, Prejudices: Second Series (
                                New York
                            , 1920), 32.
                  
                     26 Mrs. Porter's mother was a Schallenberger.
               
                     offered an escape from the rising social problems,
                    disillusionment, and gloom of the twentieth century.27
            
            For many the twentieth century ended the romantic conception of life which was based upon the
                    individualism of the frontier, the dreams of the boundless opportunity of the "Golden
                    West," the appeal of the unexplored richness of this vast land, and the belief in a
                    personal 
                        Providence
                    . The founding of the 
                        United States
                     Steel Corporation in northern Indiana, around which grew the city of Gary, may be
                    considered symbolic of the firm establishment of the machine and the victory of the industrial era
                    in the Middle West. Everywhere there was a reassessment of values. The Industrial Revolution was
                    changing the whole spirit of American life. It was the age of applied science, of big business, of
                    interchangeable parts, and of mass production. Labor became highly technical, and the individual a
                    cog in a huge machine. The first thirty years of the twentieth century have sometimes been called
                    the age of growing disillusionment.
            From the Hoosiers of German ancestry came the central figure of the new school of fiction called
                    extreme realism, who expressed the current mode of life and the spirit of this time of
                    disillusionment. Theodore Dreiser was born in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , August 27, 1871. His father was a bourgeoisie immigrant from 
                        Germany
                    , who like thousands of others, had fled from 
                        Germany
                    
                    via
                    
                        Paris
                     to escape compulsory military training. He married and finally settled in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , where he became the owner of a small woolen mill. With the destruction of this mill by
                    fire the family became penniless and the father lost his personal initiative. "He worked,
                    ate, played, slept, and dreamed religion," said the son later.28 He
                    described his mother as a perfect mother, who had embraced the Catholic faith at marriage. She was a
                    poetic 
                  
                     27 It is estimated that during the 20 years preceding her death Mrs.
                            Porter's twenty books sold more than 3,000,000 copies. Mrs. Porter herself called
                            her books "Nature studies sugar-coated with fiction." The
                                Girl of the Limberlost was translated into Arabic to be used as an introduction to
                            American methods of nature study in the College of Cairo, 
                                Egypt
                            . Her work was so authentic that it won for her an appointment as editor of the
                            camera department of the magazine Recreation. Later she became a member of
                            the national history staff of Outing, and also of the Photographic Times Almanac. The 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sunday Star for April 5, 1942, contains some new and interesting
                            sidelights on Mrs. Porter and her work.
                  
                     28 Theodore Dreiser, Hoosier Holiday (
                                New York
                            , 1916), 284 and 392.
               
                     mother, imaginative, frank, dreamy, helpful, happy, who loved
                    flowers, trees, clouds and the winds.29
            
            Into this pious home thirteen children were born, two of whom, Paul and Theodore, later became
                    prominent. Theodore was educated in the parochial schools of 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Evansville
                    , in the public schools of 
                        Warsaw
                    , and at Indiana University.30 At home the lad early learned the
                    meaning of work. Fired with the ideal that in the land of opportunity success would come to him who
                    worked, he tirelessly forced his way forward. He was taught to be kind, frank, thrifty, industrious,
                    and moderate in his habits. When he left his native state he was full of dreams and hopes, honestly
                    believing that the world was good, that it was fundamentally kind, that the meek inherit the earth,
                    and that God's in his Heaven, all's well with the world. But after four years as
                    observer and recorder of the "garbage" of city life, his romanticism sickened in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , and his idealism died in 
                        New York
                    . Like the age that produced him, he became cynical, impersonal, and scientific in his
                        attitude.31
            
            Dreiser was deeply stirred by the work of Honoré de Balzac and Emile Zola, and he longed
                    to do for America what they had done for 
                        France
                    , but editors would not publish his accounts of life as he found it. Finally he wrote a
                    novel, Sister Carrie, in the only way he could write it. It began its long journey
                    from publisher to publisher until it came to Doubleday where Frank Norris was the manuscript reader.
                    His exuberant enthusiasm persuaded the firm to print it, but the public was not ready for it, and in
                    consternation the publishers withdrew the entire edition from circulation.32 The
                    battle, however, was now on in earnest, for the public took sides. A new era in literary production
                    was born, a new style created, and a new method of analyzing American life formulated.
            
               
                  29
                        Ibid., 286–87 and 394. In a letter to the writer, Mr. Dreiser, who
                        has read these remarks about himself, insists that no one has yet adequately given his mother
                        the credit she deserves for her part in his life. Theodore Dreiser to Oscar L. Bockstahler,
                        Hollywood, 
                            California
                        , January 19, 1942. The relationship between Dreiser and his mother undoubtedly
                        deserves further study.
               
                  30
                        Who's Who in America, XXII (
                            Chicago
                        , 1942), 707.
               
                  31 Victor F. Calverton, Liberation of American
                        Literature (
                            New York
                        , 1932), 406–13.
               
                  32 Pattee, New American Literature, 186–87;
                        Fred B. Millett, Contemporary American Authors (
                            New York
                        , 1940), 30–31; Millett also gives a complete bibliography of
                        Dreiser's works.
            
            
            At least one of Dreiser's books, Jenny Gerhardt, dealt with the life
                    experiences of a German family that were strikingly similar to those of the Dreiser family.33 Both Jenny and her mother, like Dreiser's mother, loved trees,
                    flowers, and meadows. They longed for nature—to hear the wood doves, and to wonder how it
                    would feel to float among the clouds.34 Herr Gerhardt, like Dreiser's
                    father, had escaped from German conscription and settled in the Middle West.
            In a manner similar to Goethe and many other writers, Dreiser's work was largely of a
                    confessional nature. Dawn, The Genius, A Book about Myself, The Titan, and other
                    biographical books confirm that Carrie Meeber, Jenny Gerhardt, Roberta Allen, and Eileen 
                        Butler
                     had their counterparts in his mother and sisters. When Clyde Griffiths died, the old
                    Dreiser died, as was true of Goethe and his character Werther.35 Griffiths was
                    what Dreiser might have been. All of Dreiser's fables and motifs were deeply rooted in the
                    experiences of his childhood and adolescence. Ludwig Lewisohn may have stated the truth when he said
                    that a strong mother fixation resulted in an unquenchable rage against his father's
                    fanatical religion. The pleasure-loving and sex-starved boy either had to defend his
                    sisters' conduct against his father or admit that his father was right and that he and his
                    sisters were wrong.36 Because the desire for freedom was condemned as sinful,
                    Dreiser resorted to every known devise to prove that he was right. He tried to show that millions of
                    men and women have "sinned" simply because they broke the man-made conventions
                    enforced by the church and obeyed the pure and sacred impulses of nature placed there by the
                        Creator.37
            
            Perhaps nowhere in American literature has this conflict between human desire and social codes been
                    so vividly portrayed as in Dreiser's works. He went to irrational lengths in siding with
                    the mere looseness and crass dishonor of Gerhardt and Berchansky. In The Titan, The
                        Financier, 
                  
                     33 Theodore Dreiser, Jenny Gerhardt (
                                New York
                            , 1911). 34
                            Ibid., 15–18.
                  
                     35 Theodore Dreiser, An American Tragedy (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1925).
                  
                     36 Ludwig Lewisohn, Expression in America (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 477–78.
                  
                     37 Theodore Dreiser, A Book About Myself (
                                New York
                            , 1913), 427. Theodore Dreiser, Hey Rub-a-Dub-Dub (
                                New York
                            , 1920), 126–43.
               
                     and The Genius he sought to justify his
                    career and to. break his father's moral system. Despite all of his efforts, however,
                    Dreiser has neither broken the hold of moral laws on society, nor clarified his own ethical and
                    metaphysical thinking. In some respects this latter fact is the most important fact in
                    Dreiser's life, for having abandoned his father's, that is, the church's
                    plan of salvation, everything has become vain and empty and without purpose, according to his own
                    admission.
            Dreiser laid great emphasis on the influence of John Tyndall, Thomas H. Huxley, and Jchn 
                        Spencer
                    , Balzac and Zola, and American writers like Walt Whitman in his own life. He neglected
                    or ignored his German heritage. He frequently emphasized the Americanized type when speaking of
                    Germans in the 
                        United States
                    .38 Much was made of the fact that these Germans left 
                        Germany
                     because they differed radically with what was then current practice in the Fatherland.
                    In his A Traveler at Forty he said: 
                        I suffered a strange mental revolt at being in 
                                Germany
                             at all…. A little while later I recognized that while there is an
                            extreme conflict of temperament between the average German and myself, I could yet admire
                            them without wishing to be anything like them.39
                  
                    What a characteristic sentence for millions of Americans of German descent!
            Thus it seems that despite his German ancestry, Dreiser has resolutely striven to be thoroughly and
                    fundamentally American. He looks upon 
                        New York
                     as the capital of the world. He thinks democracy is glorious. It is true that he
                    recognizes "dark places" in our social and political system, but he said in A Hoosier Holiday: "How wonderful it all is! It isn't English,
                    or French, or German, or Spanish, or Russian, or Swedish, or Greek. It's American,
                    'Good Old 
                        United States
                    .' "40
            
            In Indiana, with her population from all points East and South, as well as from abroad, the cultural
                    idealism of the German met the moral idealism of the 
                        Puritan
                    .41 The 
                  
                     38
                            E. g., Dreiser, Hoosier Holiday, 455.
                  
                     39 Theodore Dreiser, A Traveler at Forty (
                                New York
                            , 1913), 462.
                  
                     40 Dreiser, Hoosier Holiday, 512.
                  
                     41 Paul F. Douglass, Story of German Methodism, (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1939), 4; Perry Miller and Thomas H. Johnson (eds.), The
                            Puritans (
                                New York
                            , 1938) present a rather comprehensive and readable study of the whole ideology
                            of 
                                Puritan
                             life.
               
                     German heritage, tempered and reinforced by southern contacts,
                    was transmitted through literature, philosophy, and religion.42
                    
                        Puritan
                     principles were standards of conduct for escaping from the sin of worldliness. The
                    resulting combination produced some of the best of American institutions, as well as some of the
                    sharpest cleavages.43 Dr. Albert B. Faust has well said: "German
                    culture has shaken the young American giant out of his stupor… and awakened in him a soul
                    capable of thinking the thoughts and thrilling to the emotions of all humanity."44 The Germans had a respect for authority, a fine sense of honesty and
                    promptness in business obligations, dogged determination, a devotion to industry and a trait of
                    economy as rigorous as the New 
                        England
                     thrift, but in other respects a more liberal and metaphysical conception of life.
                    "Arbeit macht das Leben suss." To the Germans, morality was the first step to
                    patriotism, and as good followers of Kant they believed that patriotism and religion were always
                    companion virtues, and that righteousness exalts a nation.
            It was this combination of pietism, Kantian metaphysics 
                  
                     42 In general the people of Indiana have had very strong religious
                            convictions. In fact the churches were so strong that it was only after 1850 that theatres
                            and operas were able to make an appreciable headway. As further evidence of their influence,
                            it may be noted that no other state in the Union has more schools and colleges in proportion
                            to its population than Indiana, and with the exception of the state schools almost all of
                            them were founded by a religious group. Ever since the days of the circuit rider, Peter
                            Cartwright, the Methodist Church has wielded a greater power here than in most other states.
                            The German Methodist Church was strongest in this and adjoining states. For a general
                            discussion of the subject, see Albert B. Faust, The German Element in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1909). The history of each denomination and of each institution contains more
                            detailed information.
                  
                     43 In discussing this subject it is not intended to slight the
                            southern influence in Indiana institutions. The close relationship that exists between
                            Indiana and the South has been recognized earlier in this discussion. This relationship is
                            of sufficient importance to merit a discussion in its own right. Cf. John
                            D. Barnhart, "Sources of Southern Migration into the Old Northwest," in
                                
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 1915—), XXII
                            (1936), 49–62; idem, "The Influence of the South in
                            the Formation of Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIII
                            (1937), 261–76; and idem, "Southern Contributions to
                            the Social Order of the Old Northwest," in 
                        
                                    North Carolina
                                 Historical Review (Raleigh, 
                                North Carolina
                            , 1924—), XVII (1940), 237–48. An excellent example of how
                            the incoming Germans adopted southern customs is to be found in the old-fashioned
                            camp-meeting that once flourished so gloriously in southern Indiana. This is certainly not a
                            German institution, yet was very prominent in a number of German communities in the Middle
                            West.
                  
                     44Faust, German Element in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , II, 377.
               
                     and the Bible that was emphasized by Dr. Gustav E. Hiller, long
                    a pastor of one of the churches of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in The Christian Family.45 Dr. Hiller
                    reemphasized these facts in A Believer's Critique of the Bible, and in a
                    manuscript entitled: "God and This Agonizing World." These works are a part of the
                    vast amount of literature called forth by the bitter struggle between the fundamentalists and the
                    moderns. Dr. Hiller did not seek to explain the troublesome theological controversies, but rather
                    sought to show that it is the inner man or woman that makes for better living, individual and
                    collective. Society is composed of individuals, and the heart of the individual must be right before
                    men can live together in peace and harmony. Despite all of the rude disillusionment, he still firmly
                    believed in the ultimate triumph of Goodness. The close association of life and religion was the
                    theme of all of the prose and poetical works of Dr. Hiller.
            Max Ehrmann, who is widely known as a scholar, poet, playwright, and novelist, was born in 
                        Terre Haute
                     soon after his parents, Max and Margaret von Ehrmann, had arrived from 
                        Germany
                    .46 He was graduated from De Pauw University and undertook graduate
                    work in law and philosophy at 
                        Harvard
                     University. His first literary success came in 1905 with a poem in blank verse,
                    "Breaking Home Ties," suggested by the famous Hovenden picture by the same title.
                    Shortly after this he became ill and in his suffering wrote "A Prayer." It was
                    rescued from the waste basket by a friend and since that time far in excess of one million copies of
                    it have been sold. It is second only to the "Lord's Prayer" in
                    popularity. In its simplicity and majesty, it epitomizes the thirteenth chapter of First
                    Corinthians.
            
               David and Bathsheba is rated as Ehrmann's best work. According to
                    Vandervoort Sloan, the author 
                        Is a rare combination of high moral purpose, sound health, and great sensitiveness to
                            sensuous beatuy…. At unity with his subject matter the author is free to give
                            himself over to its effective expression.47
                  
                    Much of Ehrmann's prose is clothed in sonorous words and 
                  
                     45 Dr. Hiller was born in 
                                Germany
                            , but spent most of his life as pastor of German Methodist churches in Indiana.
                            All information pertaining to Dr. Hiller was given to the author by Dr. Hiller's
                            family, or taken from the private files of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star.
                  
                     46See Who's Who in America, XX (
                                Chicago
                            , 1938), 822.
                  
                     47 J. Vandervoort Sloan, "Max Ehrmann," in The Drama (
                                Chicago
                            , 1911–1931), VII (1917), 490.
               
                     moves with such a melodious cadence that it is more truly
                    poetry than rhyming syllables could have made it. A master of the English language, he is unusually
                    successful in the difficult allegorical and parable form of literature.
            Ehrmann's poems are vivid and impassioned. They belong to the new school of verse and to the
                    classics. One cannot help but feel the charm of the mind that created them. Ehrmann is a
                    mastercraftsman, and originality is the most notable feature of his work. He has struck out
                    fearlessly for himself into untried paths. His writing shows a rare insight into human nature.
                    Everywhere he cries out against greed, hypocrisy and artificiality. A crusader for social welfare
                    and human rights, he is fearless and relentless in his demands for social and moral reform. He
                    states his arguments in facts and figures with irrefutable logic. The remarkable part of it all is
                    that disillusionment has not made him cynical or skeptical. On the contrary, it has deepened his
                    love for humanity and strengthened his desire to better the lot of his fellow Americans. His poems
                    radiate passion and sympathy for mankind.
            Evaleen Stein, another Hoosier author of German descent, came of a family of writers. Her father died
                    when Evaleen was twenty-three, and her mother became librarian of the 
                        Lafayette
                     Public Library. Here Evaleen lost herself in books. For fourteen years she contributed
                    to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, St. Nicholas, and other publications. Her first volume of poems, One Way to the Woods, appeared in 1897, and five years later a second volume was
                    published. Miss Stein's best work, however, was done as a writer for young people. Troubadour Tales won for her a recognized standing among writers in this field.
                        The Little Count of Normandy was followed by a series of Little
                        Cousins of Long Ago. She also excelled in the turning into English verse of poems
                    translated from foreign languages. Her Little Poems from Japanese Anthologies was
                    beautifully illustrated by Japanese artists. She also turned into English verse a literal
                    translation of a volume of poems by Giovanni Pascoli.48
            
            Eletha Mae Taylor of 
                        Indianapolis
                     has been writing 
                  
                     48 Stanley J. Kunitz and Howard Haycraft (eds.), The
                                Junior Book of Authors (
                                New York
                            , 1934), 344–45. While Miss Stein was a student at the Art Institute
                            of 
                                Chicago
                            , she specialized in illuminating and decorative design of manuscripts and
                            mottoes. Her work was
               
                     poetry since she was fourteen years of age.49 About one thousand of her poems have been printed in journals, books, and magazines here
                    and abroad. Her first volume of poems, Friendship Petals, was published in 1925.
                    In addition to her own works, she has compiled a book of poems by Hoosier writers. One of her most
                    popular books is a volume of poems and stories for children.
            In one of her volumes Miss Taylor says: 
                        Poetry is woven of many fabrics, dreams, visions, imaginations, spiritual and physical
                            emotion, smiles, tears, laughter and thoughts of many moods. Just as some poetry is like
                            finely spun silk, or woven gold shining with a radiance of beauty and faith that lives on,
                            passing through death to spiritual victory, so other poetry is like plain home spun,
                            touching the hearts of the lowly folks in common every day life and bringing pleasure and
                            comfort to all to whom. it appeals.50
                  
                     Her poems flow tenderly and rhythmically along in beauty of thought and spirit.
            In recent years the Germanic element in Indiana has been noticeably strengthened by the coming of
                    Mrs. Bertita von Leonarz Harding, who was born in Nuremberg and educated by private tutors in 
                        Germany
                    .51 She continued her schooling in 
                        Mexico City
                     and the 
                        United States
                    . While at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , she says that she failed a Greek examination and acquired an engagement ring. In 1927
                    she was naturalized as an American citizen. Her ancestors were connected with the courts of 
                        Vienna
                     and Budapest. From them she heard many stories and tales about the royal families.
                    Chiefly there was the familiar Grossmutter from whom she absorbed the romance and tragic destiny of
                    the Hapsburg throne. Her early education emphasized the study of languages. Even the family parrot
                    swore in five languages!
            While Bertita was still a young girl, her father, who 
                  exhibited in 
                                New York
                            , 
                                Chicago
                            , and at the Pan-American Exposition. Many of her poems and prose works are
                            embossed on parchment with border designs that reflect the work of many months.
                  
                     49 In a personal interview with Miss Taylor, the author learned that
                            one of her grandmothers was of German descent. Miss Taylor is the president of the Indiana
                            Poetry Society, the Indiana representative member of the American Literary Association, a
                            member of the Press Reporting Syndicate, a Book Fellow, a member of the International
                            Writer's League, and editor of the Indiana Poetry Magazine.
                  
                     50 Eletha M. Taylor (comp.), Indiana Poetry (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1925), 16.
                  
                     51 All quotations and references to Mrs. Harding and her works are
                            used by courtesy of Bobbs Merrill Company, whose private files were placed at the disposal
                            of the writer.
               
                     was an engineer, became general director of the Mexican Steel
                    and Iron Company, and the family moved to 
                        Mexico City
                    . Here they lived in the shadow of Chapultepec Castle, and the maid who attended the
                    little girl had served in the tragic household of the imperial Maximillian and Carlotta. Hearing
                    endless stories of the ill-fated rulers, and living through the siege of 
                        Mexico City
                     by Pancho Villa, made the attacks on Maximillian seem very real to her. She also
                    accompanied her mother when the latter returned to the aged Franz Joseph the jewels and decorations
                    that had been worn by Carlotta and Maximillian in their brief hour of glory. At this time Bertita
                    made the acquaintance of the royal monarch. Thus it seems that fate almost compelled her to write
                        Phantom Crown.52
            
            Claude Bowers, Hoosier author, scholar, and diplomat, said: "the author of the Phantom Crown writes a fascinating drama in which the characters stand out as real
                    personalities and she has done the work with scholarly thoroughness." Meredith Nicholson,
                    another author and diplomat from Indiana, wrote from Paraguay where he was 
                        United States
                     Minister: 
                        I stayed up all night until dawn that I might soak it [Phantom Crown] up;
                            I'm an old skipper, but I read every word in that book. The style is just right for
                            the matter. It's an achievement to take history and make it live in this fashion.
                            The only fault I could find with the book is the use of the slang phrase "fed
                            up."
                    
            
            Mrs. Harding does not subscribe to the western opinion that considers Maximillian an intruder and
                    Carlotta a coldblooded and ambitious usurper. Nor does she share the general European opinion that
                    Maximillian was a genius wronged by unenlightened savages, while his empress, far from breaking
                    under the tension of her typically European nerves, fell a victim of the deadly marihuana drug. Mrs.
                    Harding steers a middle course, and shows the scholar's independence in the conclusions
                    that she reaches.
            While Phantom Crown is considered by many to be Mrs. Harding's best work,
                    the Golden Fleece is also a favorite. This may be due to the fact that she has
                    spent many days 
                  
                     52
                            Phantom Crown has been published in 
                                England
                             and in 
                                France
                             as well as in the 
                                United States
                            .
               
                     in Munich, 
                        Vienna
                     and Budapest, and is more familiar with the ground covered in the latter book. Although
                    Mrs. Harding follows the generally well-known facts, she also reveals much that has never been
                    published before. She has without doubt caught the spirit of her characters. She has resurrected
                    personalities and events from the grave of the official archives and has given them the full light
                    of reality. The ramifications of the story of the Golden Fleece are tremendous and involve most of
                    the events and personalities of Europe during the long reign of Franz Joseph. Without prejudice, but
                    with an all-seeing eye, we enter into the brilliant Hapsburg court at its height. With sympathetic
                    understanding we are shown the tragic struggle in the lives of the Queen Mother, the Empress, and
                    the Emperor. The pictures are surprisingly intimate and the knowledge displayed is amazing. But the
                    author has not neglected the humorous sidelights with which even the story of the ill-fated
                    Hapsburgs abounds.
            In Imperial Twilight we have the story of Karl and Zita, last of the Hapsburgs, and
                        Farewell 'Toinette describes the departure of Marie Antoinette for 
                        France
                    . Royal Purple deals with King Alexander and his wife and their murder
                    in Serbia, while Amazon Throne gives an authentic picture of the period of the
                    three Braganza kings in 
                        Brazil
                    .
            Mrs. Harding's books are unique contributions to our literature. No student of history can
                    afford not to read them, and writers of history can learn much from her style.53
                    But the books are also ideal reading for those who do not like history and who cannot enjoy
                    biography. Mrs. Harding is at her best when she deals with personalities. She interweaves folklore
                    and fact, adventure and intrigue, and then spices the combination with the technique of a dramatic
                    novelist.
            Since the early pioneer efforts of Joseph Neef and Mrs. Dufour, writers of German ancestry have
                    played an important role in Hoosier literature. Many phases of the life of the state have been
                    represented by these authors—the migration of southerners north of the 
                        Ohio
                     by Maurice Thompson, 
                  
                     53 One of the valuable features of Mrs. Harding's books is
                            the extensive bibliography and list of documents.
               
                     the classical school by William Vaughn Moody, the rural life of
                    Indiana by Riley, the scholarly career of statemen by John Hay, sentimental romanticism of the early
                    twentieth century by Gene Stratton Porter, revolt and disillusionment of the same years by Theodore
                    Dreiser, and modern historical fiction by Mrs. Harding. Although other racial and population groups
                    no doubt also have made significant contributions, the Hoosiers of German descent have a record of
                    distinction in Indiana's literary history.
         
         
         
            The Lincolns, Hoosier Pioneers
            LOUIS A. WARREN
            
            The nomination of Abraham Lincoln as the Republican candidate for the presidency of the 
                        United States
                     in the election of 1860 immediately directed attention to his origin and early history.
                    At that time there is known to have been available to newspapers but one biographical sketch of him.
                    This story of nearly two thousand words was published in the 
                        Chester
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Times on February 11, 1860, and later copied in many newspapers
                    throughout the country.1 It became the source of practically all of the
                    post-convention news items relating to the life of Lincoln. The story did not contain the names of
                    his parents nor any other personal material of much importance.
            This very meager biographical source, the lack of vital statistics, Lincoln's own reluctance
                    to say very much about himself, the fact that his own mother died when he was too young to take an
                    interest in the names of his forebears, the confusion of some of his kinsmen about their
                    relationship to him—all these things contributed to the cultivation of an ideal seedbed
                    for a large number of purely traditional stories about his origin and early days.
            The majority of the more careful students of history who are contributing to a better understanding
                    of the place which Abraham Lincoln occupies in our American civilization are agreed that Thomas
                    Lincoln was the father of the President.2 Those, who have been attempting to
                    establish this relationship beyond the question of a doubt, have expended much energy in refuting
                    the many untenable stories claiming the President was an illegitimate child. It is hoped that the
                    paternity question may now rest where Abraham Lincoln 
                  
                     1 The original of this sketch is in the Greenly Lincoln Collection,
                            William L. Clements Library, University of 
                                Michigan
                            , 
                                Ann Arbor
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            . It has been reprinted in Lincoln Lore (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, April 15, 1929—), nos. 617, 618, February 3, and 10, 1941.
                  
                     2 Ida M. Tarbell, In the Footsteps of the Lincolns (
                                New York
                            , 1924), 93, et passim; Louis A. Warren, Lincoln's Parentage and Childhood (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 38–57; and The Lincoln Kinsman (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, July, 1938—), nos. 9, March, 1939; 31, January, 1941; 32,
                            February, 1941; 34, April, 1941.
               
                     left it when he said on so many occasions: "My father
                    was Thomas Lincoln."3
            
            Admitting the regularity of the President's parentage and the possibility now of accounting
                    for some of his inherited tendencies, one is then confronted with another tradition which blocks the
                    approach to a study of the environmental influences exerted over Abraham Lincoln as a
                    child—the tradition of the character of his father. Thomas Lincoln has been the scapegoat
                    for all who would make Lincoln a saint, as well as for those who would relegate the whole Lincoln
                    tribe to perdition. As one writer put it: "Not a single one of Mr. Lincoln's
                    deifiers has had the audacity to claim anything superior for Tom Lincoln."4 Folklore and tradition have made him one of the most despised characters in American
                    history, and as long as he is portrayed as a vagabond, an idler, a tramp, a rover, and as poor white
                    trash, lacking in energy, void of ambition, wanting in respectability, and a general failure in
                    life, it will be impossible to trace any tendencies which the President may have inherited from his
                    father. If no one challenges the statements that Thomas Lincoln was ignorant, shiftless, indolent,
                    restless, unsuccessful, thriftless, trifling, hopeless, improvident, listless, lazy and worthless,
                    those who feel that the President's environmental surroundings may have contributed to his
                    advancement will have difficulty in finding any worthwhile influences exerted over him by his
                    father.
            In order to illustrate how Thomas Lincoln's reputed weaknesses have been featured by most of
                    the biographers of his son, it might be of some interest to follow a biographical arrangement of
                    several paragraphs quoted verbatim and selected from various Lincoln books. While the historical
                    sequence may be disturbed somewhat by this method, and some repetition will be discovered, all in
                    all it seems to be the most satisfactory way to give a composite portrait of Thomas Lincoln as drawn
                    by many of the best-known Lincoln authors. The compilation offers a good illustration 
                  
                     3 Abraham Lincoln to David Lincoln, March 24, 1848, in John G. Nicolay
                            and John Hay (eds.). Complete Works of Abraham Lincoln (12 vols., 
                                New York
                            , c. 1905), II, 11; Abraham Lincoln to Jesse Lincoln, April 1, 1854, in ibid., II, 180–82; and Abraham Lincoln to Samuel Haycraft, May
                            28, 1860, in ibid., VI, 21–22.
                  
                     4 William E. Barton, The Paternity of Abraham
                            Lincoln (
                                New York
                            , 1924), 102.
               
                     of the ill repute in which the father of Abraham Lincoln is
                    still held by most biographers: 
                        No more ignorant boy than Thomas [Lincoln] could be found in the backwoods.5 His parents—drifting, roaming people, struggling with
                            poverty—were dwellers in the 
                                Virginia
                             mountains.6 The unhappy child was left to the tender
                            mercies of strangers in a wilderness swarming with savage beasts and still more savage
                                men.7
                  
                        He was as often called "Linkern" or "Linkorn" as Lincoln,
                            because he himself did not know how to spell his name.8 A shiftless
                            fellow, never succeeding at anything, who could neither read nor write.9
                            He was idle, thriftless, poor, a hunter, and a rover…. He was an indolent,
                            happy-go-lucky, contented tramp.10 A shadowy figure, this Thomas; the
                            few memories of him suggest a superstitious nature in a superstitious community.11 A shiftless migratory squatter by invincible tendency, and a very
                            ignorant man.12 From all accounts, an ignorant, shiftless vagabond.13
                  
                        He reached the age of twenty-seven, the year of his marriage, a brawny, wandering labourer, a
                            poor white, unlettered and untaught, except for his trade of carpentering.14 Nobody alleges that he ever built a house, or pretended to do more than a few
                            little odd jobs connected with such an undertaking.15 He never fell in
                            with the routine of labor; was what some people would call unfortunate or unlucky in all his
                            business ventures—if in reality he ever made one.16
                            Slaveholders and wealthy men… looked down upon him as a menial of hardly so much
                            account as a slave.17 Thomas Lincoln was an ignorant, worthless,
                            shiftless, illiterate man.18 Not only devoid of energy 
                        
                           5 Albert J. Beveridge, Abraham Lincoln,
                                    1809–1858 (2 vols., 
                                        Boston
                                    , 1928), I, 12.
                        
                           6 Nathaniel W. Stephenson, Lincoln (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , c. 1926), 4.
                        
                           7 James H. Lea and J. R. Hutchinson, The Ancestry
                                        of Abraham Lincoln (
                                        Boston
                                    , 1909), 83–84.
                        
                           8 James Morgan, Abraham Lincoln, the Boy and the
                                        Man (
                                        New York
                                    , 1908), 5.
                        
                           9 Stephenson, Lincoln, 4.
                        
                           10 William M. Coleman, The Evidence that Abraham
                                        Lincoln was not born in lawful wedlock, or The Sad Story of Nancy Hanks
                                    (n.p., n. d., 18 pp.), 11.
                        
                           11 Stephenson, Lincoln, 5.
                        
                           12 John T. Morse, Jr., Abraham Lincoln (2 vols., 
                                        Boston
                                    , 1893), I, 10.
                        
                           13Coleman, The Evidence that Abraham Lincoln was
                                        not born in lawful wedlock 8.
                        
                           14 Rose Strunsky, Abraham Lincoln (
                                        London
                                    , 1914), 3.
                        
                           15 Ward H. Lamon, The Life of Abraham
                                    Lincoln (
                                        Boston
                                    , 1872), 9.
                        
                           16 William H. Herndon and Jesse W. Weik, Herndon's Lincoln (3 vols., 
                                        Springfield
                                    , 
                                        Illinois
                                    , c. 1921), I, 12. This edition is an exact reproduction of the original
                                    edition of Herndon and Weik, Herndon's Lincoln (3 vols., 
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1889).
                        
                           17 William M. Thayer, The Pioneer Boy (
                                        Boston
                                    , 1864), 70.
                        
                           18 Eugene W. Chafin, Lincoln, the Man of
                                    Sorrow (
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1908), 10–11.
                     
                             and shiftless, but dull.19 He had
                            the wandering foot, and looking for other locations for a home was his hobby.20 A typical "poor southern white," shiftless and improvident,
                            without ambition for himself or his children, constantly looking for a new piece of land
                            where he might make a living without much work.21 Nomadic Tom Lincoln
                            belongs really nowhere, and so he cannot find out where he belongs.22 He
                            constantly sought to change, since it seemed that no change could bring him to a lower level
                            than he had already found.23
                  
                        Vagrants, or little better than vagrants, were Thomas Lincoln and his family making their way
                            to Indiana.24 His earthly possessions were of the slightest, for the
                            backs of two borrowed horses sufficed for the load.25 Where he got the
                            horses used upon this occasion, it is impossible to say.26 His decision
                            [to move], however, was hastened by certain troubles which culminated in a desperate combat
                            between him and one Abraham Enlow. They fought like savages; but Lincoln obtained a signal
                            and permanent advantage by biting off the nose of his antagonist.27
                  
                        Thomas Lincoln was… a poverty-stricken man, whom misfortune had seemingly chosen
                            for her own, and whose ambitions were blighted and hopes almost dead.28
                            An ignorant man, amiable enough, but colorlessly negative, without strength of character,
                            and with no ambition worthy of the name.29 A poor specimen of the
                            "poor whites," synonym for ignorance and superstition to half a continent.
                            To the day of his death he could neither read nor write.30 He never
                            seems to have left the impress of his goodness or of anything else on any man.31
                  
                    
            
            Possibly the most satisfactory way of refuting the many erroneous statements which have been made
                    about Thomas Lincoln would be the preparation of an exhaustive biography of the President's
                    father, supported by duly authorized public records which should put at rest, for all time, the
                    inaccurate and wholly unreliable statements which have been made about 
                  
                     19 Herndon and Weik, Herndon's Lincoln, I,
                            6.
                  
                     20 John R. Gore, The Boyhood of Abraham Lincoln (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1921), 99.
                  
                     21 Carl Schurz, Abraham Lincoln (
                                Boston
                            , 1892), 3.
                  
                     22 Denton J. Snider, Abraham Lincoln, An Interpretation
                                in Biography (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1908), 35.
                  
                     23 Morse, Abraham Lincoln, I, 15.
                  
                     24 Stephenson, Lincoln, 11.
                  
                     25 John G. Nicolay and John Hay, Abraham Lincoln, A
                                History (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1890), I, 29.
                  
                     26 Lamon, Life of Abraham Lincoln, 20.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 16.
                  
                     28 Madison C. Peters, Abraham Lincoln's
                            Religion (
                                Boston
                            , 1909), 3
                  
                     29 Frederick T. Hill, Lincoln the Lawyer (
                                New York
                            , 1912), 6.
                  
                     30 Robert E. Knowles, "The Mystery of Lincoln," in
                                The Independent (
                                New York
                            , 1890–1928), LXVI (1909), 288–91.
                  
                     31 Lord Charnwood, Abraham Lincoln (
                                Garden City
                            , N. Y., 1917), 4.
               
                     him. The only alternative at present, however, is to make some
                    positive statements based on available documents which will briefly portray the historical Thomas
                    Lincoln.
            The father of the President invariably has been called a roving, gypsy-like individual. But no one
                    would expect Thomas Lincoln to settle down until he was married and had established a home,
                    especially if he were a laborer. As far as his alleged roving propensities influenced his scn, it is
                    of interest to note that from the time Abraham Lincoln was born until he became twenty-one years old
                    his father moved but twice, and Abraham could remember moving but once. Fourteen years, or one
                    quarter of Abraham's whole life, were spent in the one log cabin home of his father in 
                        Spencer County
                    , Indiana.
            Upon reaching the 
                        Illinois
                     country at the time Abraham left home, Thomas Lincoln did establish two or three
                    different residences during the first two years there until he found a desirable and healthy
                    location. He then settled down and spent the remainder of his life, approximately twenty years, on
                    the same tract of land, in the same cabin home. Fourteen years in the same cabin in Indiana and
                    twenty years in another cabin in 
                        Illinois
                    , a total of thirty-four years in two cabins, would not imply that he had "a
                    wandering foot" or that he should be called "nomadic Tom."
            The illiteracy of Thomas Lincoln has been exaggerated out of all due proportion to the facts in the
                    case. Many biographers claim that he could neither read nor write; others claim he could not write
                    until his wife taught him how. The Lincoln National Life Foundation, however, is in possession of a
                    very clear signature written by him as a witness to a note in 1803, three years before he was
                    married. His signature is found on many duly authorized records, and one document is also available
                    which seems to be his own written report of work he had done. We have the testimony of
                    Lincoln's second wife, Sarah Johnston Lincoln, that "Mr. Lincoln could read a
                        little,"32 so he should not be classed among the illiterates. Nor
                    is there any evidence whatever that he was a stupid man, as many of his early enterprises and
                    achievements gave indication that his intelligence was equal to, and probably above, that of the
                    average Hoosier of his day.
            There is no indication that Thomas Lincoln was ever a 
                  
                     32Emanuel Hertz, The Hidden Lincoln (
                                New York
                            , 1938), 351.
               
                     poverty-stricken man. He was poor as other pioneers were poor,
                    to be sure, but Thomas Lincoln during the period when Abraham was growing up was as well off
                    economically as his neighbors and better off than the average pioneer. Thomas Lincoln had more than
                    one source of income. The farm he had purchased in 1803, for a cash payment of one hundred eighteen
                        pounds,33 was evidently operated by him at some profit, as on February 18,
                    1806, he was credited at the Bleakley and 
                        Montgomery
                     store in Elizabethtown for 2400 pounds of pork and 494 pounds of beef, which amounted
                    in money credit to 21 pounds, 14 shillings, and 11/2 pence. Later, on May 16, there was a credit
                    placed to his name of 30 pounds, 4 shillings, and 71/2 pence for going to 
                        New Orleans
                     on a flat-boat, and within five months from this store alone he had received fifty
                    pounds, or more than two hundred dollars.34 These business transactions all took
                    place within a period of four months previous to his marriage to Nancy Hanks.
            In December, 1808, Thomas paid two hundred dollars cash to Elijah Bush for the farm on which Abraham
                    was to be born two months later.35 While still in possession of two farms for
                    which he had paid four hundred dollars, he acquired an interest in another farm on Knob Creek on
                    which he paid taxes.36 When Thomas moved into Indiana in 1816 he left a surplus
                    of two hundred bushels of corn in the loft of a neighbor's cabin on Knob Creek.37
            
            The most unjust charges against Thomas Lincoln have been those which have attacked his character. The
                    story became so general that one of the granddaughters of Thomas' second wife came to his
                    rescue and said she was tired of hearing Thomas Lincoln abused. She told Eleanor Atkinson: 
                        Abe got his honesty, and clean notions of living and his kind heart from his
                            father…. I've heard Grandmother Lincoln [Sarah Bush Johnston] say, many
                            a time, that he was kind and loving, and kept his word, and always paid his way, and never
                            turned a dog from the door.38
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  33Hardin County [
                            Kentucky
                        ] Court Deed Book, 225.
               
                  34 Bleakley and 
                            Montgomery
                         Account Book, in possession of J. W. Montgomery of Elizabethtown, 
                            Kentucky
                        .
               
                  35 Larue County [
                            Kentucky
                        ] Circuit Court, McKelvey Fogle Suit Equity Box 19.
               
                  36Hardin County Court Tax Book, 1815.
               
                  37 Hardin Circuit Court, Geo. Lindsay vs. John Kennedy Suit.
               
                  38 Eleanor Atkinson, The Boyhood of Lincoln (
                            New York
                        , 1908) 44–45.
            
            
            In all of the available records referring to Thomas Lincoln there is not a single one of them which
                    would imply he was ever delinquent in his taxes, called to appear before any grand jury, compelled
                    to answer for any misdemeanor, sued for any indebtedness, or that he in any manner discredited
                    himself.
            Thomas Lincoln affiliated with the church in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and joined by letter the Pigeon Creek congregation in Indiana. He was one of the
                    leading members of this group—a moderator at its meetings, a member of the board of
                    trustees, of the committee to enforce discipline, and of the building committee. While serving in
                    many different capacities in the local church, he was also appointed a delegate of the church to
                    district meetings.39 Upon reaching 
                        Illinois
                     he affiliated with the Christian Church and was known as a conscientious member until
                    his death. The minister who served the church to which Thomas belonged has testified to his
                    exemplary Christian character.
            Some of our biographers have ridiculed Thomas Lincoln's ability as cabinetmaker. Possibly
                    they are not familiar with the fact that there are several pieces of his handiwork which have been
                    preserved. Corner cupboards which he made are now in the Speed Museum at 
                        Louisville
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , and the Ford collection at 
                        Dearborn
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    . There are also several mantles in Hardin County, 
                        Kentucky
                    —products of his handiwork which testify to his skill.
            William Woods, an Indiana neighbor of the Lincolns, made this statement in some reminiscences which
                    he wrote on September 15, 1865: "Thomas Lincoln often and at various times worked for me,
                    made cupboards, etc., other household furniture for me; he built my house, made floors, ran up the
                    stairs, did all the inside work for my house."40 It is also well known
                    that Thomas was on the committee that superintended and helped to build the Pigeon Church where the
                    Lincolns attended. The pulpit which was used for more than seventy-five years by the church was made
                    by him.
            With Thomas Lincoln's ability as a carpenter well established, it would seem strange that he
                    would provide such impossible living quarters for his family during their first year or two in
                    Indiana, as has been alleged. The story as 
                  
                     39 Pigeon Church Record Book.
                  
                     40 Hertz, The Hidden Lincoln, 363.
               
                     told by nearly every Lincoln biographer who mentions the
                    Indiana years affirms that the Lincolns lived in a half-faced camp or a hunter's hut open
                    on one side. This story is absolutely false. Abraham Lincoln himself mentions "the new log
                        cabin"41 which had been constructed shortly after their arrival.
                    John Hanks, who helped build a new log cabin when the Lincolns moved from Indiana to 
                        Illinois
                    , stated: "It [the 
                        Illinois
                     cabin] was begun March 30, 1830 and four days were spent in building it."42 There was no reason on earth why Thomas Lincoln should expose his family to
                    the elements in a half-faced camp when a typical log cabin could be built in four days. A year
                    before Thomas Lincoln moved to Indiana, other Lincoln relatives had preceded him and settled not far
                    from where he built his cabin home, so there were plenty of settlers to help him cut the timber and
                    erect his pioneer dwelling. Thomas Lincoln was, furthermore, an experienced woodsman, had built
                    several cabins, and had one contract for getting out timber for a large mill.
            Comments about the title Thomas Lincoln held to his Indiana acres are just as misleading as the
                    statements about his early dwelling. It is claimed he never gained a clear title to his farm and was
                    in debt for it when he left Indiana. It is evident from the records of the general land office and
                    the deed books of 
                        Spencer County
                     that Thomas Lincoln's one-hundred-acre Hoosier farm was unencumbered. Timber
                    had already been cut for the erection of a new dwelling at the time the family decided to move to 
                        Illinois
                    .
            These brief comments on the historical Thomas Lincoln, as contrasted with the folklore Thomas
                    Lincoln, might be concluded with an interview which William J. Green had with Thomas Lincoln not
                    long before he passed away in 
                        Illinois
                    . Although Thomas was then an old man seventy years of age, Green came to this
                    conclusion after conversing with him: 
                        He was a man of great reasoning powers and fine social magnetism, reminding me of his
                            illustrious son, but that having received no educational drill or discipline, he knew
                            nothing of persistency of effort in a continuous line, nor of the laws of thrift or
                            financial cause and effect; that he evidently was industrious, though shifting rapidly 
                        
                           41 Nicolay and Hay, Complete Works of Abraham
                                        Lincoln, VI, 27.
                        
                           42 Phebe A. Hanaford, Abraham Lincoln: His Life
                                        and Public Services (
                                        Boston
                                    , 1883), 24.
                     
                             from one thing to another; that he was candid and
                            truthful; popular with his neighbors and brave to temerity.43
                  
                    
            
            Indiana pioneers have no reason to be ashamed of Abraham Lincoln's father. The innate
                    tendencies passed on to, and environmental influences created about his boy, will always supplement
                    to a very large degree the contributions of Abraham's mother.
            If one thinks that Abraham Lincoln's father has been abused by biographers, what has been
                    said about him is mild compared to the comments which are made about his mother. It is not our
                    purpose, however, to review the slanderous stories in circulation and in print about Nancy Hanks, as
                    they have in a measure been offset by many very beautiful tributes to her, tributes which in some
                    instances have been as greatly exaggerated as those unlovely tirades which would defame her.
            Just one statement might be made which explains the origin of the story questioning the moral status
                    of Mrs. Nancy Lincoln, and elaborating on Abraham Lincoln's alleged unnatural birth. Within
                    a week after the 
                        Chicago
                     Convention, Samuel Haycraft of Elizabethtown, 
                        Kentucky
                    , wrote to Lincoln, making some inquiries about his parentage. On May 28, 1860, ten days
                    after the nominations were made, Haycraft received the following letter: 
                  
                     
                        Dear Sir: 
                        Your recent letter, without date, is received. Also the copy of your speech on the
                                    contemplated Daniel Boone Monument, which I have not yet had time to read. In the
                                    main you are right about my history. My father was Thomas Lincoln, and Mrs. Sally
                                    Johnston was his second wife. You are mistaken about my mother. Her maiden name was
                                    Nancy Hanks. I was not born in Elizabethtown, but my mother's first child,
                                    a daughter, two years older than myself, and now long since deceased, was. I was
                                    born February 12, 1809, near where Hogginsville [Hodgenville] now is, then in Hardin
                                    County. I do not think I ever saw you, though I very well know who you
                                    are—so well that I recognized your handwriting, on opening your letter,
                                    before I saw your signature. My recollection is that Ben Helm was first clerk, that
                                    you succeeded him, that Jack Thomas and William Farleigh graduated in the same
                                    office, and that your handwritings were all very similar. Am I right?
                        My father has been dead near ten years; but my stepmother is still living.
                        
                           
                              43 Newspaper clippings in the files of the Lincoln
                                        National Life Foundation, Fort 
                                            Wayne
                                        , Indiana.
                        
                        
                        I am really very glad of your letter, and shall be pleased to receive another at any
                                    time.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    A. Lincoln44
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Lincoln's reply indicates that Haycraft had submitted for confirmation the history of the
                    family as remembered by the citizens of Elizabethtown. Fifty-two years had elapsed since the brief
                    two years' residence of the Lincolns in the town. Abraham very frankly wrote to Haycraft:
                    "You are mistaken about my mother. Her maiden name was Nancy Hanks." He mentioned
                    that Sarah Johnston was the second wife of Thomas. Haycraft evidently had confused the stepmother
                    with Lincoln's own mother. It was necessary to correct Haycraft's opinion about
                    Abraham's birthplace as well, and Lincoln stated that he was not born in Elizabeth-town but
                    his sister was born there. Apparently there was no attempt on the part of Lincoln to obscure any
                    family history, for he invited Haycraft to write again.
            When Samuel Haycraft learned that Abraham Lincoln's mother's maiden name was Nancy
                    Hanks, it would be natural for him, as the country clerk, to search for the Lincoln-Hanks marriage
                    record. Of course he failed to find it, as Lincoln's parents were not married in Hardin
                    County. The older citizens, however, remembered that there was a young woman by the name of Nancy
                    Hanks who lived in the community where Abraham was born. They also recalled that she became the
                    mother of an illegitimate child, a boy. It was this mother and child that undoubtedly gave rise to
                    the story of Abraham Lincoln's questionable paternity.
            After it became known generally that the name of Lincoln's mother was Nancy Hanks and that a
                    person by that name in Hardin County was a woman of ill repute, other communities began to discover
                    that once upon a time a certain Nancy Hanks lived in their midst, and it was not difficult to find
                    some man who was said to have betrayed her. So the story of Lincoln's mother became a maze
                    of contradictory stories all evolving about some girl by the name of Nancy; but Nancy Hanks of 
                        Washington County
                    , living with her Aunt Rachel Berry, should not be confused with the Hardin County
                    person or any other contemporaries with the same name, as Lincoln's mother's
                    identity is well established.
            
               
                  44 Nicolay and Hay, Complete Works of Abraham Lincoln,
                        VI, 21–22.
            
            
            Josiah Lincoln, brother of Thomas, and Robert Brumfield, grandson of Richard and Rachel Berry,
                    married sisters. Nancy Lincoln, sister of Thomas, married another grandson of Richard Berry, and it
                    is not strange that Thomas Lincoln himself would become closely associated with the Berry family.
                    Thomas resided from the time he was ten years old, 1786, until he was twenty-seven, 1803, a short
                    distance from the Berry home, where there lived a daughter of Berry's wife's
                    sister, his niece, named Nancy Hanks. After Thomas left the community in 1803, he lived near
                    Elizabethtown for the next three years, but it is not likely he had forgotten the niece of Richard
                    Berry. It is evident that he paid her a visit very soon after arriving home from a boat trip to 
                        New Orleans
                     on May 3, 1806. We are sure of this fact, that he had proposed marriage to Nancy Hanks
                    by May 16, and possibly many months before that date.
            On the above date Thomas purchased at the Bleakley and 
                        Montgomery
                     store in Elizabethtown material for his wedding outfit, which contained thirteen
                    itemized articles, including cloth for a new suit, the entire account amounting to over nine pounds.
                    A week later he purchased another bill of goods which included three yards of coating which alone
                    cost him three pounds four shillings and sixpence.45 On June 2, 1806, Thomas
                    bought a "tipt bridle" for his horse, and two days later some
                    "sundries" were charged to him. No more entries appear under his name at this
                    store until after his marriage to Nancy Hanks ten days later.
            For the authenticity of this marriage, as well as a sketch of Nancy Hanks at the time of her wedding,
                    we are indebted to an 
                        Indianapolis
                     woman, Mrs. C. H. Vawter, whose grandmother was a first cousin of the bride and her
                    constant associate during the years preceding the wedding. Mrs. Vawter was born in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on October 26, 1825. She was the daughter of John and Naomi (Thompson) Hobart. She was
                    married in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on May 1, 1866, to Achilles Vawter. Mr. Vawter was an educator and served as president
                    of the Baptist Seminary at Lodoga for five years; later he had charge of two different academies in 
                        Kentucky
                    . While Mrs. Vawter was living in 
                        Kentucky
                    , not far from where her mother was born, and in the same community where Nancy Hanks
                    married Thomas Lincoln, she prepared an article for the press, 
                  
                     45 Bleakley and 
                                Montgomery
                             Account Book.
               
                     commenting on the mother of Abraham Lincoln. She referred to
                    this article in a letter written to Mrs. Caroline Hanks Hitchcock on September 14, 1895: 
                  
                     
                        Twenty two years have elapsed since the letter to which you refer was written in
                                    vindication of Nancy Hanks who was the cousin of my grandmother. When young they
                                    were intimate as sisters and members of their Uncle Richard Berry's home in 
                                        Washington
                                     Co., Ky. until they were both married. My grandmother was married
                                    first, Nancy Hanks five or six years later. My grandmother retained until death the
                                    greatest love for her cousin and that knowledge prompted this writing of the letter
                                    which has resulted in the entire vindication of a noble woman and the untarnished
                                    fame of her honored son. My letter was written in 1873 [1874]—In 1877 I
                                    visited Ky. and urged my uncle Mitchell Thompson to have the old courthouse searched
                                    for the papers. At a later date he did go to Mr. Broker, clerk of 
                                        Washington
                                     Co., 
                                        Springfield
                                    , the county seat and have the search made which resulted in the finding
                                    of the papers. The establishment of the legality of the marriage etc. Nancy Hanks
                                    mother's name before marriage was Shipley and she was a Virginian. There
                                    were I think six sisters in the Shipley family. But I only remember the names of the
                                    husbands of two, Richard Berry and Robert Mitchell, my great grandfather, and Mr.
                                    Hanks, Nancy's father.46
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            The news item Mrs. Vawter prepared appeared in the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier for February 20, 1874, and it is worthy of being preserved: 
                        In the year 1859 I went to 
                                Springfield
                            , Ky., to teach, and was in that same neighborhood when Lincoln received the
                            nomination for President…. In 1866, after the liberation of four million of
                            slaves had made the name of Abraham Lincoln memorable, I was again in the neighborhood and
                            visited the old home, in which were celebrated the nuptials above referred to….
                            As I remember the story of Nancy Hanks, it ran thus: Her mother's name before
                            marriage was Shipley, and one of her sisters married a Mr. Berry; another sister married
                            Robert Mitchell, who also came to 
                                Kentucky
                             about the year 1780. While on the journey the Mitchells were attacked by the
                            Indians and Mrs. Mitchell fatally wounded, and their daughter. Sarah, a child of eleven
                            years old, was captured and carried into 
                                Michigan
                            …. Soon after Mad Anthony 
                                Wayne
                            's treaty with the Indians in 1794 or 1795; the lost Sarah was returned
                            to her friends, and lived in the home of her uncle, Richard Berry, with her cousins, Frank
                            and Ned Berry and Nancy Hanks, until both girls married.
                        These girls were as intimate as sisters. Sarah Mitchell was the pupil of Nancy Hanks in
                            learning to spin flax, the latter being adept in that now lost art. It was the custom in
                            those days to have spinning parties, on which occasions the wheels of the ladies were
                            carried 
                        
                           46 Original letter in the files of the Lincoln National Life
                                    Foundation.
                     
                             to the house designated, to which the competitors,
                            distaff in hand, came ready for the work of the day. At a given hour the wheels were put in
                            motion, and the flimsy fibre took the form of firmly lengthened strands in their mystic
                            hands. Tradition says that Nancy Hanks generally bore the palm, her spools yielding the
                            longest and finest thread. Abraham Lincoln was not an exception to the rule that great men
                            require that their mothers should be talented.
                        Thomas Lincoln came, it is believed, into this neighborhood to visit Mordecai Lincoln, who
                            lived near Major Berry, and there learned of the skill of Nancy Hanks. Like Ulysses he was
                            ambitious and later became the husband of Nancy Hanks, whose thread of gold has been woven
                            by the hand and pen of Abraham Lincoln into the warp and woof of the national Constitution.
                        Sarah Mitchell was a woman of a high order of talent. She married a Virginian, had many fine
                            children, and retained until her death the greatest veneration for the memory of her cousin,
                            whose name she gave to one of her daughters. Modesty has laid the impress of silence upon
                            these relatives of a noble woman, but when the voice of calumny has presumed to sully her
                            name, they hurl the accusation to the ground and proclaim her the beautiful character they
                            had learned to love long before they knew that to her had been given an honored son.
                        From one who has learned from saintly lips to admire her grandmother's cousin.
                        C. H. V.
                    
            
            Thomas Lincoln and his wife Nancy Hanks Lincoln had located in Elizabethtown, 
                        Kentucky
                    , by June 14, two days after the wedding, and on that day Thomas purchased at the
                    Bleakley and 
                        Montgomery
                     store "1/2 set of knives and forks" for five shillings, and
                    "3 skeins" of silk and other purchases for his wife were made during that first
                    week of their married life. On August 4, Thomas was charged with half-a-dozen spoons.
            The first child of Thomas and Nancy Lincoln was a daughter, named Sarah for Mrs. Lincoln's
                    cousin, Sarah Shipley 
                        Mitchell
                    , who had been her girlhood playmate. There can be no doubt but that Nancy Hanks Lincoln
                    was living in the Elizabethtown cabin with her husband Thomas and her year-old baby girl Sarah in
                    the all-important month of May, 1808, nine months before Abraham Lincoln was born. In the Hardin
                    County records during the month of May, 1808, there are five datcs noted on which Thomas Lincoln was
                    employed in Elizabethtown, where he was living in a cabin on which he had been paying taxes for two
                    years in succession. On one of the dates in May, among his purchases were three dozen buttons, which
                    should imply the presence of a  woman in his cabin home. It was
                    in this same month of May, 1808, that the unborn life of Abraham Lincoln began. Two months before
                    the birth of Abraham, his parents acquired the farm on which he was to be born. About two years
                    after his birth another child, a son, was born, who was named Thomas for his father; but this child
                    died in infancy.
            It was Thomas and Nancy Hanks Lincoln who with their two children, Sarah, aged nine, and Abraham,
                    aged seven, moved into the new state of Indiana just about the time it came into the Union. They
                    represented a typical pioneer family from 
                        Kentucky
                    , both parents having been born in 
                        Virginia
                    , and both with an honorable ancestry of which no man might be ashamed. Two years later
                    the mother passed away, but the environmental influences with which she surrounded her son were not
                    to be lost, and the innate tendencies which the boy inherited from both parents were not to be
                    discounted.
            It is hoped that the time may come when all students of history may recognize that the genius and
                    remarkable achievements of Abraham Lincoln find their proper and normal origin in two worthy parents
                    whose ancestry dates back to early colonial days, and who had absorbed, during their western
                    migrations, the very spirit of the nation which passed into their children. Reverence and respect
                    are due to Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Lincoln, as well as to their illustrious son, Abraham, all of whom
                    were Hoosier pioneers.
         
         
         
            William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society
            CAROLINE DUNN
            
            The library of the Indiana Historical Society recently became with sentimental pride and pleasure
                    possessor of a copy of the Society's first publication. In April, 1831, only a few months
                    after the organization of the Society, the secretary, John H. Farnham, sent out a printed circular
                    letter telling of the aims of the new organization and inviting contributions. Outstanding among the
                    responses to this appeal was a lengthy letter from Nathan Dane, of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , telling of his part in the drafting of the Ordinance of 1787 while a member of the
                    Continental Congress. Mr. Dane also sent a set of his nine-volume Abridgement of
                        American law; these books have survived the vicissitudes of the years and of the
                    Society's earlier homeless existence and are today in their original bindings and in good
                    condition on the shelves of the State Library. This letter the Society considered so worthwhile that
                    it voted to have five hundred copies printed and distributed. This seven page leaflet was the
                    Society's first publication and was probably printed in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1831. But although the Society had a record in its minutes of the gift and of the
                    decision to print the letter, it no longer had the original letter or a copy of the leaflet in 1897
                    when it again printed Mr. Dane's communication as Number 2 of Volume 1 of its Publications This printing was copied from an article in the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune, of June 18, 1875, the material for which was supplied by John D. Defrees,
                    who probably made a transcript of the leaflet in the Library of Congress, the only known copy until
                    the Society acquired this past spring the one which, according to the notation on it, was sent the
                    Honorable James 
                        Kent
                    .
            Three letters to Judge Samuel Hall, of 
                        Princeton
                    , Indiana, from William Henry Harrison, Benjamin Parke and Noah Noble, and subscription
                    lists of 1848 and 1849 for the Mount Carmel and New 
                        Albany
                     and the 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     Railroad companies were secured for the Society. Also purchased were a group of
                    thirty-five letters of Indiana governors and public men originally assembled by a collector about
                    forty years ago.
            
            Interesting material on surveying and map making in Indiana is contained in eighty-seven letters of
                    1817 to 1846 to Samuel Williams, of the Surveyor General's Office in 
                        Ohio
                    . Many of the letters are from the office of the Auditor of the State of Indiana and
                    concern Land Office records. Also in this collection purchased by the library are a manuscript plat
                    of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a manuscript plat of about 1808 or 1809 of land in the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     Land District, which shows the old Buffalo Trace road to 
                        Vincennes
                    , and a printed broadside of July, 1834, advertising the sale of lands in the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     District.
            A collection of manuscript material which was presented to the Society by Mrs. William E. English in
                    1930 and which has been in storage since is being sorted and arranged. It is a part of the material
                    gathered by William H. English for his projected history of Indiana and includes: biographical
                    sketches, and notes for such sketches, of members of the Constitutional Convention of 1850 and of
                    judges and other officials of the Territorial period; early Indiana documents and letters signed by
                    these men and facsimiles of others; the original election returns of the various counties for the
                    elections of 1809 and 1812, which are being indexed; longhand transcripts of speeches and articles
                    in the Western Sun and other early Indiana newspapers; lists of members of the
                    state legislature, by session, by county, and alphabetically; lists of county officers; and pictures
                    of members of the legislature.
            A manuscript orderly book of Colonel John Boyd, of the 4th Regiment, U.S. Infantry, who came west and
                    participated in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , has been purchased and has since presented some interesting problems. The Burton
                    Collection of the 
                        Detroit
                     Public Library has a manuscript, which it has printed, which purports to be extracts
                    from an orderly book of this same colonel and for the same period. The Burton manuscript and ours
                    contain many of the same entries but each also has many entries, scattered throughout, which are not
                    in the other manuscript. Possibly there is somewhere a more complete third orderly book!
            The library has added several items of Owen or 
                        New Harmony
                     interest: The radical, and advocate of equality, by Paul 
                        Brown
                    , an erstwhile member of the community and writer on his experiences there; Criticism of Robert Owen's
                     "An examination of the new system of
                        society," by W. L. Fisher (1826); A memoir of William, Maclure,
                    Esq., by Samuel G. Morton (1841); Robert Owen's Rational Quarterly
                    Review, v. 1, 1853 (all published); an interesting pamphlet by Robert Owen, published in 1846,
                        Reasons for each law of the new constitution proposed to be introduced first into
                        the State of 
                            New York
                        , afterwards into each state of the Union, and then from the universal and
                        unchanging truth of the principles and innumerable advantages in practice to all other
                    nations; and copies of two speeches of Robert Dale Owen, A lecture on consistency
                        and an Address on the hopes and destinies of the human species.
            Books in German have been appearing on the market and the Society has secured several interesting
                    ones, concerning life in the 
                        United States
                     and German settlers here: 
                  
                     Anschauungen und Erfahrungen in Nordamerika, by Heinrich Bosshard
                            (1853–55)
                  
                     Amerika und die moderne Volkerwanderung, by Ernst Ludwig Brauns (1833)
                  
                     Das Deutsche Element in den Vereinigen Staaten von Nordamerika,
                                1818–1848, by Gustav Koerner (1880)
                  
                     Des Auswanderers Handbuch. Getreue Schilderung der Vereinigen Staaten,
                            by George M. v. Ross
               
            
            Other outstanding books among those recently acquired are: 
                  
                     Life and times of Patrick Gass, by J. G. Jacob (1859)
                  C. S. Rafinesque's A life of travels and researches in North America
                                and the south of Europe (1836)
                  
                     Observations on the present state of the waste lands of Great Britain.
                            (1773) Attributed to Arthur Young. Concerns the 
                                Ohio
                             region.
                  
                     The western monthly review, v. 2 and 3, 1828–30. In original
                            wrappers.
                  
                     Histoire de I'Amerique Septentrionale, by Bacqueville de la
                            Potherie (1753)
                  Geographical, commercial and agricultural view of the 
                                United States
                            , by Daniel Blowe (1820)
               
            
            Dr. Charles M. Andrews, of 
                        New Haven
                    , permitted us to have microfilmed an unpublished monograph by him, Ancestors and
                    descendants of John Walker, 1749–1914, a socio-genealogical account of a family which
                    pioneered in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and in Indiana, in 
                        Dearborn
                     and Laporte  counties. From the 
                        Toronto
                     Public Libraries the Society secured a photostat of a memorial of Edward Abbot
                    concerning his service as Lieutenant Governor at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1775–78.
            The library has been given a number of interesting and valuable items during recent months. Among
                    these gifts are:
            Journal of Samuel Donnell, Sr., describing a trip down the 
                        Mississippi
                     in 1806, presented by James Arthur Donnell, of 
                        Greensburg
                    .
            Walter J. Ball, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , presented a copy, typed and bound, of his account of old houses in 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            From Allan Hendricks, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , came a letter-book of A. W. Hendricks, while assignee of the 
                        Madison
                     Branch Bank, 1859–1866, two letters of the Civil War period, several
                    pictures and pamphlets and other material.
            David Gibson, formerly of 
                        Indianapolis
                     but now a resident of 
                        Cleveland
                    , sent two interesting letters, one from Isaac Cochran, of 
                        Aurora
                    , in 1857, and the other a Civil War letter of Jesse F. Cochran.
            Mrs. Ferris Taylor presented a photograph of a drawing of Captain Samuel C. Vance by Peyton Symmes.
            Dr. Willis W. Carey, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , sent the Society a diary of Asa Fletcher, of Spencerville, 
                        DeKalb County
                    , for 1853 and his account book of 1870 to 1879, together with some old legal papers.
            Nine pamphlets, Masonic speeches on various occasions, in Indiana or by Indiana Masons, were received
                    from an unknown donor. Several of them were hitherto unknown early Indiana imprints.
            The Indiana Historical Society hopes that more and more such gifts may come to its library as
                    Hoosiers realize that here is a place where these documents and letters and books will be cared for
                    and will be available to persons engaged in historical research. In times of moving and of cleaning
                    out attics, drawers, desks and bookcases, remember that the Society's library is a good
                    repository for these old records, one in which they will be carefully preserved and used.
         
         
         
            Documents
            
                    TWO PIKE COUNTY HOOSIERS IN WORLD WAR I
                
            Since the 
                        United States
                     is again involved in a world conflict, records of the earlier World War may be timely,
                    interesting, and of some value to the scholar. In addition to revealing more details about the
                    previous struggle, they may call attention to the need of keeping similar records of the past and of
                    the present. Young men going into the armed services should be encouraged to keep diaries or to
                    write letters to record their experiences; and diaries, letters, and other records should be
                    preserved and turned over to libraries for preservation and, in some cases, publication.
            Soon after word was published that Indiana University was interested in collecting the records of
                    Indiana's part in the present war, two veterans of World War I brought their diaries to the
                    University. They were Private Harland L. Osgatharp, Station Hospital 50, Fort Custer, 
                        Michigan
                    , a Hoosier from Winslow, Indiana, and John E. Howard, 1304 East Locust street,
                    Petersburg, Indiana. They belonged to the same company and were attached to Field Hospital number
                    148 of the 112 Sanitary Train of the Thirty-Seventh Division.
            These diaries are the records of the common people, of the privates in the Medical Corps of the Army.
                    They give us two accounts of many experiences, and show us how some of the soldiers lived and served
                    in 
                        France
                    . The diaries were written in small books which contained little room for extended
                    notes. They were not written for publication, but were the brief, hasty, even carelessly written
                    reminders of what each day meant for the men who kept them. Little care was taken in respect to
                    spelling, abbreviations, punctuation, and the like, although it seems obvious that, both men could
                    have written much better had they supposed that their words would one day be published. The original
                    form of the diaries has been retained, although the men would have preferred to have the obvious
                    errors of spelling and grammar corrected.
            Osgatharp had a typewritten copy made of his diary at one time, and since the original entries
                    previous to May 22 seem to have been lost, the typewritten copy was followed to May 22. In the
                    published form which follows, Osgatharp's  entry is
                    given first, and is followed by Howard's entry after the designation [B]. The only
                    variation from the written record that was made intentionally was the omission of what might be
                    considered paragraph indentations, which seem not to have been significant. In addition, a few words
                    were omitted.
            The story of the Thirty-Seventh Division to which Osgatharp referred was prepared by Major H. W.
                    Fenker, H. Q. 37th Division, and entitled The Thirty-Seventh's Bit. It is
                    a brief sixteen-page pamphlet printed in 
                        Paris
                    .
            
                    Sunday, April 22. At 2:30 P. M. Clifford and I started to Petersburg. Most of the folks were at
                        home to see me off. There were no formalities or affectations when I left. Mother smiled back
                        when I smiled. The rest were rather joshing about the matter except Flora, who took the matter
                        rather seriously. John said when I got over there and they needed any more just let him know and
                        they would all come over.
                    We had a bountiful supper, fifteen of us at the Chandler Hotel. A special Church service for us
                        at the M. E. Church. We received a mess fund of —4.00 there and afterwards had a
                        treat at the Greek's.
                    Monday, April 29. We were given our lodging and breakfast at the Chandler Hotel and next morning
                        amid many clamors we were taken to Winslow in a patriotic procession.
                    We checked up with the local board at Winslow. Marched over to the depot. Professor Johnson spoke
                        a few well chosen words before the train arrived. The Red Cross ladies gave each one of us a
                        well filled lunch box. Most everyone was of a cheerful mood and there was a general shouting
                        among the selectives.
                    I spoke to Sister Allie at Velpen and received some more lunch from her.
                    Selectives were taken on at several places—
                            Huntingburg
                        , English, and some other places.
                    We arrived at Camp Taylor about three o'clock and were given some kind of an examination
                        and assigned to our barracks, which happened to be that of the 25th Company, 7th Training
                        Battalion, 159 Depot Brigade. After supper Lieutenant Schlemmer gave us a lecture on a
                        soldier's discipline.
                    We had a few things issued to us in the way of a slicker and some toilet articles.
                    Tuesday, April 30. We received our complete uniform today. But we got something previous to this.
                        I mean a vaccination and an inoculation.
                    Wednesday, May. 1. We drilled a little bit today. The boys, tho, are certainly feeling the
                        effects of their "shots". We went to the "Y" in the evening
                        to an entertainment.
                    Thursday, May 2. We are drilling regularly now. We have games about an hour each day. I got a
                        haircut from a fellow who had been back in old 
                            Pike County
                         when he was a young man. We was related there. I began reading "At
                        Plattsburg".
                    
                    Friday, May 3. We had a tuberculosis test today. I bought an artillery service pin today.
                    Saturday, May 4. The most interesting test was today. I refer to the psychological test. I slept
                        most of the afternoon, it being a holiday.
                    Sunday, May 5. Service three times at the "Y" today. I met Tony and Edna Dillon
                        Ruby Meadows and Laurence Meadows. I also wrote Miss Robinson a letter and sent her the
                        artillery service pin.
                    Monday, May 6. We dolled ourselves up in our fatigue suits today and played some games. There
                        were certainly some fine singers at the "Y".
                    Tuesday, May 7. I drilled in a small section today. I learned a little bit about "To the
                        rear, march", I think. We had need of our slickers also today.
                    Wednesday, May 8. We had our second inoculation today. Passed the personnel and worked in
                        officers mess hall.
                    Thursday, May 9. I served as a K. P. today. I'm feeling slightly the effects of the
                        shot.
                    Friday, May 10. I listened to two interesting lectures today.
                    Saturday, May 11. It rained nearly all day. I received —2 for my services in April.
                    Sunday, May 12. Out of quarantine. Rained most of the day. Went to the Liberty Theater in the
                        evening.
                    Monday, May 13. The lecture today was on machine guns, I watched a baseball game.
                    Tuesday, May 14. I'm feeling not very good today. We tried a few squad movements.
                    Wednesday, May 15. Got my third shot today. It threw me into a chill and fever and my head felt
                        like it would burst.
                    Thursday, May 16. Hiked a little today.
                    Friday, May 17. Stood an overseas examination today.
                    Saturday, May 18. I got dizzy headed when we started out to drill and was carried in. We stood an
                        inspection of our clothing and our toilet articles.
                    Sunday, May 19. A lady took me in her car to Highland Park Christian Church and home with her for
                        dinner. I am preparing for a transfer.
                    Monday, May 20. I served as a K. P. for a short time today. I was relieved to stand an inspection
                        of the contents of our barracks bags preparatory to being transferred.
                    Tuesday, May 21. On this our last day at Camp Taylor we drilled pretty hard.
                    Wednesday, May 22. Early this morning we arose had breakfast and afterwards emptied our bed sacks
                        of straw. Later packed our barracks bags with all our belongings and marched over near the place
                        of entraining, our barracks bags being hauled. We stood an inspection over there and at 9:45 A.
                        M. we entrained for somewhere, I wasn't exactly sure. Our troop train was cheered
                        lustily all along the route. We stopt off in 
                            Nashville
                         Tenn, and paraded one of the streets in the rain. The Red Cross ladies furnished us
                        with candy  chewing gum, postcards and lead pencils besides
                        magazines and cigarettes to those who used them. [B] Left Camp Taylor, Ky.
                    Thursday, May 23. Along in the wee hours of this morning I stood guard for a little better than
                        an hour. At about 6 o'clock this morning we detrained at Camp Sheridan 
                            Alabama
                        . We stood physical examination and was placed in a detention camp. In the afternoon
                        I was transferred to 148 Ambulance Company. A soldier came to my tent and he and I went over to
                        the Y in the Coliseum and wrote some letters and saw a show. [B] Arrived at Camp Sheridan Ala.
                        Just before daylight
                    Friday, May 24. Today I was attached to 148 Field Hospital. So it seems I have become a
                        non-combatant in this world war, all this without my knowledge or consent, but I bow to the
                        Powers that be. [B] Assigned to Field Hospital No. 148.
                    Saturday, May 25. We stood an inspection today wearing our medical belts.
                    Sunday, May 26. We had been issued a few things since we came down here and I turned in some of
                        them today. Those of us who had been assigned to 148 Field Hospital and others elsewhere were
                        placed in a provisional training company.
                    Monday, May 27. Stood some more inspections today. We in our tent had some stamps furnished us
                        today. Among other curiosities today was that of being sprayed in the nose mouth and throat.
                    Tuesday, May 28. We had some instructions in the litter drill this afternoon. We have foot drills
                        every morning and are inspected physically twice daily. We were sprayed again today.
                    Wednesday. May 29. We had instructions in bandaging today. I had my first letter from home today
                        since coming to Camp Sheridan. I thought I was all out of luck when I first came down here and
                        was placed in the detention camp but I am liking it better each day now.
                    Thursday, May 30. Today being Decoration Day, it is a holiday. Our inspection today was dental. I
                        was Class "A". [B] A Holiday. Over in the Provisional Training Co. A.
                    Friday, May 31. Rec'd two letters today. One from Fern; the other from Opal June, my
                        little neice. We exchanged the blankets we rec'd at Camp Taylor for O. D. blankets. Had
                        a lecture on the gas mask—box respirator. We signed the payroll also. A Y secretary
                        came over and led some singing for us.
                    Saturday, June 1. My turn at furling the tent came today. Nothing doing in afternoon.
                    Sunday, June 2. We had religious service this forenoon. Nothing doing the rest of the day but
                        write letters. [B] Had Church in the St. Led by the Y. M. C. A
                    Monday, June 3. I handle the broom today. We had our platoons shifted somewhat today. I was
                        placed in with those who could move a little bit faster than some of the rest. Gas masks and
                        bandaging this afternoon.
                    Tuesday, June 4. I rec'd my box respirator (gas mask) today. Had a psychological test
                        quite similar to the one at Camp Taylor.
                    Wednesday, June 5. I didn't realize one year ago today when I registered that I would be
                        in training but such is life. I tried out my gas mask today. Today is pay day. I rec'd
                        —23.00. —7.00 went for  my insurance.
                        The quarantine was lifted long enough to allow us to go to 
                            Montgomery
                        . I went and saw the 
                            Alabama
                         state capitol building and bought some souvenirs of Camp Sheridan. [B] Pay day. I
                        drawed —8.10 but had —23.40 Coming.
                    Thursday, June 6. Nothing much doing today. I was issued an overcoat. [B] Drilled with the
                        "Gas Mask."
                    Friday, June 7. Nothing doing much today. I went over and visited a few of the boys who came down
                        from Camp Taylor when I did.
                    Saturday, June 8. Washed my trousers and some other things today. This is my first attempt at
                        washing pants but I did a pretty good job. We were transferred back to Field Hospital 148 today.
                        Helped haul a little horse feed in the afternoon. Witnessed almost a total eclipse of the sun.
                        [B] Eclipse of the Sun. 5.37–7.35 Moved back to our regular P. Field Hospital No.
                        148.
                    Sunday, June 9. I was all in today. [B] Loaded the 112th Train. Raining.
                    Monday, June 10. Drilled pretty hard today. Pretty hard rain and wind storm. I slept under
                        Lutz's bunk. [B] Late for dinner. Thunder Storm at Mid-nite.
                    Tuesday, June 11. A big hike today. A review of Camp Sheridan's forces by a British
                        officer. Had a hard time getting my pack adjusted. [B] Review. A 3 mi. hike, with all our packs.
                    Wednesday, June 12. I don't feel very sore over my big hike. Nothing like I thought I
                        would. A mighty hard rain fell tonight. Big fire at the store room. One man seriously injured.
                        [B] Regular program
                    Thursday, June 13. Began packing my belongings today. Washed my O. D. shirt. [B] The Same [as on
                        June 12]
                    Friday, June 14. I had an introduction to tear gas today [B] In the Gas house, with Gas Masks.
                    Saturday, June 15. Tore down our tent today. Washed a lot of clothes. Went over and found Delbert 
                            Campbell
                        . [B] Took the Tents down.
                    Sunday, June 16. We got the "dope" today that we were to entrain for Camp Upton
                        tomorrow (perhaps). The 
                            Ohio
                         lads of 112 Sanitary train gave the Indiana lads the hot ally game just after I had
                        retired. [B] Hot Alley. Last Nite to be in Camp Sheridan Ala.
                    Monday, June 17. We arose at 4:30. Barracks bags packed and down to the end of the company
                        street. 9:45 we left the company street with our rolls. 10:45 Our train left Vandiver park.
                        Nothing interesting much till we get to 
                            Columbus
                            Georgia
                         where the Red Cross ladies and citizens gave us quite a reception. We
                        didn't detrain. [B] R. Cross met us at 
                            Columbus
                         Ala at 5 P. M. We left Ala.
                    Tuesday, June 18. Augusta 
                            Georgia
                         was a nice little southern city. Detrained at Florence 
                            South Carolina
                         at 3:00. Not very enthusiastic. (Shaved on the train)? Fayetteville 
                            North Carolina
                         compares favorably with other towns on the way. [B] Crossed the Savannah R. at 8:15
                        A.M. Parade at Florence S. C.
                    Wednesday, June 19. On the way thru 
                            Virginia
                         we past the house where Stonewall Jackson died. Detrained at 
                            Washington
                            D. C.
                         9:00  We arrived at 
                            Baltimore
                         11:15. Aberdeen Md. 12:30; Wilmington Deleware 1:30 Detrained at 
                            Philadelphia
                         4:00. 
                            Plainfield
                            New Jersey
                         7:00 P. M. We were viewing the Statue of Liberty at 7:40. Detrained at 
                            Jersey City
                        , 
                            New Jersey
                        . 
                            New York
                         City in plain view. [B] Parade at W. D. C. Also at 
                            Philadelphia
                        . Arrived in 
                            Jersey City
                         just at Sunset.
                    Thursday, June 20. After sleeping on the train all night stationary in 
                            Jersey City
                        , we arose at 4:00. Crossed the Hudson river from 
                            Jersey City
                         to Long Island. Entrained there for Camp Upton. No preparations had been made for
                        any dinner for us so I went down to a canteen and tried a meal in the grill room. Pretty steep
                        in price. Cup coffee & pie, 40¢. [B] Crossed the Hudson R. on a steamer.
                        Landed at Camp Upland at 2: P. M.
                    FIiday, June 21. Clothing inspection.
                    Saturday, June 22. The same and toilet goods included. Big rain fell.
                    Sunday, June 23. K. P. all day. [B] I worked in the Kitchen. Me and Osgatharp.
                    Monday, June 24. Signed the payroll. Received some clothing, including helmet. Went over and saw
                        two troop trains detrain. [B] We got our woolen clothes.
                    Tuesday, June 25. Physical examination final before over seas departure.
                    Wednesday, June 26. Confined all day to barracks.
                    Thursday, June 27. Left Camp Upton and returned to South 
                            Brooklyn
                         where we embarked on the Plassy 3:40 P. M. [B] Left Camp Upton Long Island N. Y. at
                        10: A. M. Boarded the Transport 4: P. M.
                    Friday, June 28. We began our over seas trip at 7:15 this morning. By the time I had eaten my
                        dinner I was willing to feed the fish [B] The Ship pulled out of the N. Y. port at 7: A. M.
                    Saturday, June 29. I didn't realize two months ago when I first entered the service that
                        I would be out here on the Atlantic ocean leaning over the railing of a deck and heaving like a
                        bellows.
                    Sunday, June 30. I notice we had no subchasers with our convoy this morning I tried drinking a
                        kind of a ginger ale but it failed to stay down. [B] Had Service on the ship.
                    Monday, July 1. I made what food I ate stay down today. [B] I was on Guard for my first time. On
                        the Plassy. English ship.
                    Tuesday, July 2. A submarine was reported today I never saw anything myself
                    Wednesday, July 3. A "Y" secretary gave me the Service Song Book for which I am
                        very thankful.
                    Thursday, July 4. Independence day was observed on board today. Singing and boxing and wrestling
                        were the events. [B] I and Ernest Lutz were K P's. Had light Championship boxing on
                        Deck. 7 days out.
                    Friday, July 5. I was a table orderly today. [B] The Ocean was Calm and very beautiful.
                    Saturday, July 6. Tried washing my clothes but can't do much with the kind of water I
                        had to use. [B] I was on Special detail. Juggling provisions.
                    
                    Sunday, July 7. A rough sea today. Stood muster. [B] The ocean very ruff, and the weather was
                        cold.
                    Monday, July 8. I notice we have quite a few destroyers and subchasers along with us this
                        morning. Shaving on board a ship on a more or less rough sea compares favorably with shaving on
                        the train. [B] The English Convoy of Sub-Chasers met us. 6 met us before noon.
                    Tuesday, July 9. Land was sited when I first arose. We have traveled all day long on the Firth of
                        Clyde and Clyde river. Very beautiful scenery. [B] Landed at the Clyde R. in the eve. Then went
                        to Glassglow in the Nite. Where we stayed till Morn.
                    Wednesday, July 10. When I awoke this morning the "Plassy" was moored in docks
                        of 
                            Glasgow
                        , 
                            Scotland
                        . A little after 8 o'clock we entrained and speeding thru a part of 
                            Scotland
                         and 
                            England
                        . Some of the most beautiful scenery and the neatest and prettiest farms and homes I
                        ever have seen So quaint and interesting Interesting towns were 
                            Lancaster
                         Crewe 
                            Manchester
                         Birmingham Stratford on 
                            Avon
                        . 
                            Oxford
                         and about midnight detraining at Winchester and hiking out to camp. [B] Unboarded
                        the Ship. Boarded the train for Winchester 
                            England
                        . We landed at Mid-night.
                    Thursday, July 11. I think it was something 10 o'clock this morning when we arose. This
                        is a rest camp for soldiers on the way to 
                            France
                        . It rained during many spells during the day. I went down to the Y and wrote some
                        letters and cards. I was a table orderly all day. [B] Stayed 2 nites at Morn Hill Camp. At
                        Winchester.
                    Friday, July 12. We arose rather, early, and made our rolls, and left the camp and hiked into
                        Winchester by 9:30. Entrained there for Southamton which is only a short run. Detrained here and
                        waiting to embark for 
                            France
                        . 8 o'clock we steamed out very rough sea. Some sick who were not across
                        the Atlantic. [B] We took about 20 min. ride on the train to Southhampton. Left there at
                        Sun-Set, to cross the Channel.
                    Saturday, July 13. Disembarked at Cherbourg and hiked to a rest camp. Nice and cool here Clean up
                        self and clothes [B] At Morning we were in a Harbor in 
                            France
                        . About 6 hrs Crossing Crossed the English Channel on the Queen-Victoria. 6 hrs.
                        ride.
                    Sunday, July 14. Today is Independence Day for 
                            France
                         I arose at 330 this morning on account of misunderstanding the bugle. Went to some
                        kind of religious service Hiked back to Cherbourg after a 4 o'clock supper and
                        entrained. 36 men in a car very crowded. I crawled under a bench in the center like and slept.
                        [B] We were in an English Rest Camp No 1. Stayed about 1 1/2 days. I was on guard. Left at
                        Sunset.
                    Monday, July 15. Riding all day today stopt along the way and had something to eat and drink. I
                        paid two bits for two eggs. Past in sight of 
                            Paris
                        . Pretty scenery. [B] We rode Sun nite and all day. We Came by 
                            Paris
                        . Saw an airoplane attack at night.
                    Tuesday, July 16. After riding again all night we stop at Neufchateau and are served coffee and
                        sandwich by Am Red Cross. Detrained at Bourmont Detailed to load baggage Swimming for first time
                        in several years. Pretty location here. [B] Reached our destination about noon. Took a swim in
                        the Muese R. at Bourmont.
                    
                    Wednesday, July 17. We are quartered in a hospital ward. Swimming again. On water detail till
                        late in the night. [B] We took another swim in the evening. First time to write home from
                        Europe.
                    Thursday, July 18. Stood in Meuse river today and washed my clothes. Put up tents and moved in.
                        [B] Washed Clothes and pitched and moved into our new Tent.
                    Friday, July 19. We drilled for the first time in 
                            France
                        . Turned in Red Cross goods (sweaters & helmet) and other extra stuff. [B]
                        Turned in all but one outfit. Took a stroll over in the Hill. Up in the top of the Church
                    Saturday, July 20. Hiked a couple of miles and back this morning. Litter drill in afternoon. [B]
                        Took about a 2 mi. hike over on the Hill. Began working on our regular schedule.
                    Sunday, July 21. On detail to lug baggage today. A pleasant stroll with Sgt Leslie. [B] Order to
                        keep our Helmets on or with us. I was detailed for Policing up the Switch Yards. Service in the
                        evening at the Y.
                    Monday, July 22. Unloaded horses and loaded cars and trucks preparatory to moving. [B] Took the
                        Tents down and packed up. A fight at noon. Sergt, and a Pvt.
                    Tuesday, July 23. Lane and I slept in our pup tents last night. Arose about 3 o'clock
                        packed and left on trucks for somewhere anyway we have stopped in Rambervillers. It was pretty
                        late when we got to go to bed. But I certainly did sleep some. [B] Left Bourmont at daybreak in
                        Truck. We arrived at Ramervillers by sunset.
                    Wednesday, July 24. Finley and I saw some of the town today. Wrote a letter at La Foyer du
                        Soldat. [B] Policed up around quarters. Took a bath.
                    Thursday, July 25. I staid in pretty close quarters today. I was up town and wrote another
                        letter. [B] Went out for Gas drill. Up in town in the afternoon.
                    Friday, July 26. K. P. Postcard Enemy airplane [B] Our regular schedule. Up in town after mess.
                    Saturday, July 27. Had a fainting spell this morning as I started out for gas mask drill. This is
                        due I think to indigestion. [B] I was K. P. With Lane & Anthony. A rainy day.
                    Sunday, July 28. High mass in the forenoon and program interesting at the "Y"
                        in afternoon. [B] Went through the Cathedral Church on the Corner At the Y. in the eve, With
                        Lane Wrote to Eden King.
                    Monday, July 29. Mask drill and lecture. Airplane raid after I retired. [B] First Airoplane raid
                        at 10:30 P. M. 25 men detailed to get horses. Just Coming into Ramervillers.
                    Tuesday, July 30. On detail most of the day. [B] Another Air raid About the same hr. A bright
                        nite.
                    Wednesday, July 31. Mask drill in the forenoon. Afternoon loaded trucks. Left Ramberviller at 8
                        o'clock and came over in a truck to Baccarat. Transferred to Creche Hospital along with
                        five others. [B] Moved from Ramervillers to Baccarat in Trucks. About 15 mi. Pitched Tent on the
                        Hill.
                    
                    Thursday, August 1. I have been given the scarlet fever ward. There are only six patients and
                        they are well enough to be sent away. I handled the commissary goods what I could get today
                        besides getting the laundry. [B] Mopped floors till Noon. On a Suppy Truck till 2 P. M. First in
                        Co. to be in a Gas attack. With March & Bronie.
                    Friday, August 2. Higgason got the commissary stuff today. I looked over the town a bit after 7
                        o'clock. [B] Worked in B. Hospital. Rec'd 4 letters and wrote 2. Allies shoot
                        shells at a German plane.
                    Saturday, August 3. Col. Darby was over today. I took another walk today. Only two patients left.
                        [B] Worked in the fore noon. At the Y. in the eve. 2 observation baloons up all evening.
                    Sunday, August; 4. This is the beginning of the fifth year of the war. Rained in the afternoon.
                        [B] Washed clothes and Swam. Went to Singing service at the Y. after supper.
                    Monday, August 5. Commissary and Salvation Army goods were handled by me today. Took over the
                        laundry. Rec'd 7 letters. [B] Regular work in the Hospital. Went up in town after
                        supper. Met Higgason & Osgatharp.
                    Tuesday, August 6. Two trips to officers headquarters today. Commissary and baths for diphtheria
                        patients. Blankets wet. I'm reading H. G. Well's Mr. Britling sees it Through.
                        [B] Begin washing Officers and patients Utensils. Observation baloon up all day.
                    Wednesday, August 7. Higgason and I dusted blankets in the forenoon. I staid in the office in the
                        afternoon. Bought a French grammar 1.25. Saw some shots at an enemy plane [B] Air raid East of
                        us, 3 enemy machines. They were turned back by our Shells.
                    Thursday, August 8. Swept out the property room. It was some dirty. Finished reading my book. It
                        is the best work of fiction concerning the war I have read. Higgason and I began our night duty
                        tonight. We have left the window shutters open and are in for a balling out. [B] Another air
                        raid about the same time of day just before Sunset only North of us.
                    Friday, August 9. Bought me a writing outfit this noon and studied a little French. [B] Every
                        thing is quiet near here. Rec'd letters from Aunt Flora H. & Mary Ockerman also
                        Eda.
                    Saturday, August 10. I sat up all night last night and I felt somewhat glum this morning. I
                        weighed 66 kilograms. [B] Ally planes goes over. 2nd man dies.
                    Sunday, August 11. I went over to the company and got some rations this morning More booming of
                        artillery than usual. Rec'd 132.80 francs today. [B] 12 planes go East Just at daylight
                        We drawed June's pay. 135 F & 10 centimes.
                    Monday, August 12. I went over to the company and paid Howard and Crofts what I owed them.
                        Higgason and I went to a French class in the afternoon. I'm reading
                        "Extricating Obadiah" by Jos. C. Lincoln. He is the author of the war poem
                        "Yellow." [B] Air raid at Nite Heavy Shelling.
                    Tuesday, August 13. Hig and I was over at the A. P. O. bldg. this morning. I bought
                        "Idées et Mots," an elementary course in the French language. It is
                        a good textbook The Huns have just given us  a little aerial
                        music. [B] I and Lane went to town (Baccarat) Bot. Souvenirs. Air raid at 11 P: M.
                    Wednesday, August 14. I sat up last night and as usual I don't feel any too well. Not
                        sick just kinder all in. I got Bill Nye's "Remarks" at the Y. [B] A
                        German aviator brought down and took to 147 Amb. Co. 3 blocks away.
                    Thursday, August 15. I was transferred to the Company hospital this morning and after sleeping a
                        part of the day I went on duty at 7 oc[l]ock P. M. in ward 21 Previous to this I sent
                        —20.00 home thru the Y sec There are 19 in this ward and none are dangerous except
                        one Higgins who has influenza in a severe form. All through the night it was not the most
                        pleasant experience in the world to sit up here with no lights and men coughing and calling for
                        this and that [B] 3rd man dies. I washed some clothes.
                    Friday, August 16. About 4 or 5 o'clock this morning I lay down on the bare floor to
                        sleep. I was relieved at 8 o'clock. I slept till 4 in the afternoon. I came on a little
                        bit early tonight to get any instructions the nurse or lieutenant might give. I find Higgins
                        with death rattle in his throat. At ten minutes past taps he breathed his last. Reported his
                        decease and helped carry him out. Had an opportunity to rest the remainder of the night. [B] 4th
                        man dies.
                    Saturday, August 17. Went down to le hologerie [horloger] and left my watch. Lind is my sickest
                        man. He acts like Higgins. [B] Lane, Lutz, and I went to the river and took a swim.
                    Sunday, August 18. Higgason and I hiked over to the observation balloon this morning. It surely
                        was worth while. "Y" At a little after taps the Boches gave us some aerial
                        entertainment. Received a new patient with lung trouble. Only 9 in my ward now. Lind is
                        improving. [B] I was at the Y in the afternoon.
                    Monday, August 19. A fellow came in last night who had the cramps. I had one time getting him
                        eased. Lots of aerial music [B] Lots of shelling during the Nite. 50 American brought to
                        Evacuation H. Has been gased.
                    Tuesday, August 20. A new man with bronchial trouble H[einie] M[usic] [B] Air raid at Nite.
                    Wednesday, August 21. Got my watch from hologer. 5 f. charges. Some casualties in last
                        night's air raid. 3 new patients. [B] A Bomb dropped within 3 blocks of our barracks. 2
                        Amex. Killed instantly and 4 died afterwards.
                    Thursday, August 22. I went over to Haxo Barracks after 8 o'clock and took a look at the
                        results of Heinie's raid last night. Plenty to see in the way of broken tiles window
                        lights and plaster be-rides four dead horses and a mule with a hole in his side I tried to take
                        a bath but couldn't take much of one. [B] Lessingy Captured by French &
                        British.
                    Friday, August 23. Very quiet last night. The Allied planes kept this vicinity well patrolled. I
                        gave one dose of medicine before taps and slpt the rest of the night. I slept and read and gave
                        my washing to a Madame. Helpt Weimer till midnight. [B] Sent Mary O. a handkerchief. Wrote to
                        Dad.
                    
                    Saturday, August 24. Cleaned up my ward today. More mail. Rainy. [B] Allies Capture Albert. I
                        wrote to Floyd G.
                    Sunday, August 25. Took 
                            England
                        's place in a ward today. I was on most all night too. Orders to move. Make
                        my roll. [B] Bray was taken by the British. In the outskirts of Bapaume.
                    Monday, August 26. Came in an ambulance to 145 F. H. Sick when attending a demonstration. Slept
                        most of the afternoon. [B] The Brittish and F. take Bapaume.
                    Tuesday, August 27. Not feeling very well today. So weak I can't do much and still
                        dizzy. This is the longest case of dizziness I have ever had. [B] Went to the Dentist. An enemy
                        plane attacks the observation baloon.
                    Wednesday, August 28. In bed all day today [B] Roye Captured. Chaulnes Captured. Wrote to Edward.
                    Thursday, August 29. Got up to eat my supper. [B] Germans Attack the Observation balloon.
                    Friday, August 30. Attended lecture today. Feeling pretty spunky. Cleaned myself up. I was
                        looking as bad as I did on the Plassy. Heard some shells screech. Our observation balloon was
                        hit in the afternoon. I am reading "Long Live the King" by Mary Roberts
                        Rhinehart. [B] Peronne menaced French take Noyon.
                    Saturday, August 31. I was in the dispensary today. [B] French advance on several miles front.
                    Sunday, September 1. In a ward till noon. Made my roll and motored back to the Creche, which is
                        operated now by F. H. 146 Put on night duty in a spinal meningitis war[d]. A very serious case.
                        [B] British take Combles & Bailleul.
                    Monday, September 2. Went to F. H. 147 and got my handbag a fellow from F. H. 145 brought me. My
                        patient seems to rest slightly better. He has some fever. [B] Huns destroy the balloon. Lane
                        & I take a walk across the River. Letter from D. G.
                    Tuesday, September 3. Rullo rested pretty well during the night but this morning still has some
                        fever. [B] HairCut. Dentist works on my teeth. Rec'd word that Hiram was dead
                        yesterday.
                    Wednesday, September 4. I felt pretty bad during the night. This morning I hiked out to 112
                        Ammunition Train to see Parker. He was not there. I was all in when I got back. Took some
                        medicine. Had a bad night of it. Stomach trouble again [B] Queant falls. While British advance
                        on whole Battle front.
                    Thursday, September 5. In bed all day today. Ate a little dinner. Read a little. [B] A Rainy day.
                        Wrote to Lizzie & Dewey G. 5th Man dies, a Negro. We drawed July pay—150 1/2
                        F's
                    Friday, September 6. Arose this morning at 7:45 and cleaned up and ate a light breakfast. Paid
                        today 148.80 f. [B] French Capture Coucy. Letter from Mary O.
                    Saturday, September 7. Slept till 9 o'clock this morning. Don't feel well yet.
                        Went with Barrett to a hologer where he bought wrist watch paying 70 f. Movies. [B] Moved into
                        other barracks. Air fight 3 Allies after a Boche.
                    Sunday, September 8. Slept till 9 o'clock again this morning. Went to Y for religious
                        service. Moved to F. H. 147 in afternoon. Assigned  to Ward
                        F. for night duty. There are only two or three cases that require very much attention. A new
                        patient with sprained it. ankle at 10:40. Had to call the night nurse several times to man not
                        resting well. After midnite and I have had mess. Raining very hard. 1:45 I have just finished
                        reading Long Live the King. A very interesting story—entirely European in its setting
                        and characters for the most part but an American version or dissertation possibly on Uneasy is
                        the head that wears the crown. [B] Ham & Chauny taken by the French.
                    Monday, September 9. Two trips to Créche today Redheaded nurse balled me out this
                        morning for the allegted offense of leaving a table untidy. Bought a pocket knife 3 1/2 f. and
                        flashlight 6 f. The latter article was of little value to me when I went on in the evening
                        Another fellow at 9:15 Un[u]sual nurse calls. Rainy weather. [B] Since Aug, 8th 465 enemy planes
                        brought down, 262 Allied in same time.
                    Tuesday, September 10. Had a new battery put in flashlight but it lasted but a few lightings.
                        Read quite a bit during the nite. [B] The weather is very rainy. Allies Advance slowly all along
                        line.
                    Wednesday, September 11. The patient who helped me do the dishes tonight was somewhat stewed.
                        Another fellow came in during the night who had had his fist smashed in a fight. [B] Allies are
                        near St. Quentin, Laon, and La Fere. Band Plays in the Afternoon.
                    Thursday, September 12. All serious cases are evacuated now. About two oclock in the morning a
                        fellow with a broken colar bone was brought in. He was thrown into a nervous chill and suffered
                        intensely [B] Made our packs up ready to move any time.
                    Friday, September 13. One of the March boys' and I saw the glass factory this morning.
                        Very interesting Left F. H. 147 this noon. Went back to company and helped clean out wards. Left
                        Bacarat about 8 oclock and came in trucks to Romont Billet in a barn loft, where there is plenty
                        of good fresh hay. [B] Left Baccarat at 7 P: M. Arrived at Romont 10 P. M. 4 of us get a private
                        room.
                    Saturday, September 14. Rather late breakfast today. Only two meals during the day Looked around
                        over this town a little bit today. Not much to see. [B] Tom Wooden & I go out under a
                        shade tree.
                    Sunday, September 15. Received 3 letters and the 
                            Evansville
                         Courier today. Had clothing and ration inspection Visited the Aviation Camp. Issued
                        an overcoat and after I retired the company was called out an[d] issued an extra blanket.
                        Several fellows stewed. [B] Inspection in orchard. Visited Aviation Field. On Guard at Nite.
                    Monday, September 16. I am sitting here on a truck waiting for orders to leave. Been here nearly
                        all day and haven't gone yet. [B] American Capture 13,000 prisoners in vicinity of St.
                        Mihiel First big Blow.
                    Tuesday, September 17. Arose at 1:30 this morning and had breakfast and started. Have past thru
                        Luneville and Nancy. Later on the trucks past thru Toul but I was asleep. Travel'd till
                        late at night. Put up alongside of the road. Rained during the night [B] Left Romont at 3 A. M.
                        Lost on our way. In the outskirts of—Barle-Duc.
                    Wednesday, September 18. Motored into Bar le Duc about 11 o'clock this morning. Have all
                        my belongings all fixt up in a barracks  Cleaned up myself.
                        [B] Arrived at Noon in Barle-Duc. on the Big Hill.
                    Thursday, September 19. Unloaded and loaded trucks this morning. Permitted to go down town in
                        evening. Bought me a watch 70 f. Sitting now in a theatre waiting for performance to start. Some
                        entertainers from the states. Entertainment best I've heard for quite a while. Bob Hart
                        10 f. [B] A Rainy day. Play Eucher in the Truck. Wrote to Fannie. At the Show.
                    Friday, September 20. Arose at 5 oclock ce matin and unloaded trucks. Rolled up in a blanket and
                        slept and read some from the 
                            Mississippi
                         Bubble. Looking over the Shoes and late for dinner. Got a pass to go down town
                        again this apres midi. Had a fine shower bath. Rec'd some mail that had been somewhat
                        delayed. Got a gratis hair cut. Permitted again to come to Bar le Duc theatre. Waiting now for
                        performance to begin. A laugh every minute. Lasted longer than an hour. [B] Thiough the Church
                        Letters from Mose & Mary O. Unloaded trucks before daylight.
                    Saturday, September 21. Gas mask inspection. Left Barle-Duc at five oclock in the afternoon. Also
                        ration inspection [B] Left Barle-Duc. At 4:30 P.M. in Trucks.
                    Sunday, September 22. Traveled all night last night and until 3 o'clock this morning.
                        Rather late breakfast. Orders to put up pup tents. 
                            Clay
                         Sheldon and I worked about 2 1/2 hrs. fixing up ours. We dug out a place by the
                        roots of a tree and besides ditching around it we camouflaged it with brush. We mist our dinner
                        and had nothing but some hard crackers and a can of lobster. Read a little bit. [B] Landed in
                        the Forest at 2: A. M. Pitched Pup Tent with Author Lane. Beechnut Grove. Went in dug outs.
                    Monday, September 23. Cleaned up myself this morning and owing to having cold damp feet I have
                        just put on my woolen socks. Rainy weather with all its discomfitures of mud & feeling
                        chilly. Rec'd a big lot of E'ville Couriers and Ot. Stars. Packed and loaded
                        on a truck to leave but orders were changed. Moses Lane & I bunked together. 2 gas
                        alarms, besides some shell. [B] A Rainy day. Carried rock for the Kitchen. Loaded up but failed
                        to Move.
                    Tuesday, September 24. Read all forenoon. Left 4:30 for Brabant. On a detail now to clean up a
                        barracks. We surely had one good feed for supper. [B] Shelled all nite. Mon. N Gas alarm given 3
                        times. Move from the Beach Grove. To Brabant.
                    Wednesday, September 25. On detail again this morning. Turned in my 81/2-D hobnails sans hobs and
                        got a pair of 9 E ditto. I'm out here in this beautiful moonlight listening to the
                        barrage being put over by the Americans Im on guard. Nothing much to do. I went off guard at 2
                        o'clock in the morning. [B] 250 mi. Fro. At the Observation balloon. Big Amex. Drive
                        began at mid-nite on the Verdun Front.
                    Thursday, September 26. Blanket issued today. The cannonading continued most of the day.
                        Prisoners past thru here. Some wounded brought in. [B] Went on a Truck after Medical supplies.
                        1,500 prisoners pass us on the road.
                    Friday, September 27. I counted a file of 214 Boche prisoners.  There were four such besides 32 officers. Washed my clothes. [B] More Prisoners go thru,
                        Wrote to E. K. Dad and Mary Ockerman
                    Saturday, September 28. Went out in the woods and pickt up a good pair of shoes—a good
                        fit. Set around or looked around rest of the day. Shells bursting near. [B] Hair Cut. Amex.
                        advance 7 mi. on 20 mi. front.
                    Sunday, September 29. I'm all ready to go—all packed up—waiting
                        for orders. 11:15 While waiting finished reading The 
                            Mississippi
                         Bubble. Left Brabant at 1 oclock. Journey'd a distance past a ruined
                        village where most of the co. was sent up to the front as stretcher bearers. Quite a congestion
                        of trucks. [B] St. Mihiel Sector. Leave Brabant at 2: P. M. Arrived at Auvecourt at mid-nite.
                        Start to put up Tents. Co. goes to dressing Station.
                    Monday, September 30. Right now at 10:30 I am sitting on the ruins of the above village
                        (Avecourt) guarding the packs of 6 of us while waiting orders for further work along the lines
                        of liason. A man gave us a pretty good feed for dinner & supper. Congestion [B] 5 of us
                        helps at Recieving Station. Wait for Trucks to come. Stay all nite around fire.
                    Tuesday, October 1. I tried to sleep last night, but having no blankets I gave it up as a bad job
                        and at 12 oclock I went to the dressing station and worked there. After noon we hiked over to
                        the Company over the ground that the Germans had held. It was full of shell holes. Engineers
                        constructing new roads. Helped put up hospital tents. Many wounded brot in. [B] We hiked about
                        31/2 mi. to the Co. On guard Directing Ambulances to the F. H. 148.
                    Wednesday, October 2. Worked at camouflaging hospital tents till afternoon. Left this place near
                        the front in evening. Saw a Hun plane brot down [B] On guard. They shell the Cross roads. Great
                        air fight. Leaves the Hospital at Dark.
                    Thursday, October 3. Arrived here at Brabant about 4 oclock this morning. A good feed by Red X.
                        These are great days for living now. This is one of the greatest if not the greatest offensive
                        put over by the Amex forces. 
                            Bulgaria
                         has laid down arms. My work so far hasn't been more than carrying litters
                        and camoflaging but I have at least heard a great battle if I haven't seen so very much
                        of it [B] Arrive back in Brabant at 5: A. M. road all night Pitch Pup Tents.
                    Friday, October 4. We left Brabant some time last night and traveled all night in the worst
                        crow[d]ed condition we have ever traveled. Along this morning we past thur Bar le Duc and had
                        breakfast not far from there, near Trouville. We are now stopt a way out here somewheres in the
                        country and have had a bite to eat. I tried to lie down and sleep but its too chilly. We have
                        past thru some of the most beautiful part of 
                            France
                         I have yet seen Its is threatening rain. [B] Left Brabant at 10: P. M. Arrived in
                        outskirts of Trousville at 7: A. M. Leave at 10. P M.
                    Saturday, October 5. The 112 San. Tr. moved again about 2 o'clock this morning. We are
                        located near a little village, Lanenville. The sun is shining warm and bright this morning and
                        altho I couldn't lie down all night I slept a little bit before breakfast and having
                        performed my morning ablutions I am feeling O. K. Went up and carried  water for a bath. The first time the system was used. We left this
                        place in the afternoon and came into Troussey about dark. We had some supper, believe me! Then
                        Lane Howard and I fxt up a place to sleep on the truck and I reckon we slept some. [B] Arrive in
                        outskirts of Lanesville at 9 P. M. Go to Bernecourt early next morn.
                    Sunday, October 6. Peace rumors are being circulated now. I went to some kind of a service in the
                        church in the afternoon. We hauled out of town just after dark and one would have thot we were a
                        party of picnickers by all the music we were making It surely was a merry crowd Along about 11
                        oclock. We same three pitched a pup tent and I reckon I slept some again. [B] 
                            Austria
                        , Turkey & 
                            Bulgaria
                         ask for immediate piece. Lieut Ray Announces it.
                    Monday, October 7. This morning just after breakfast we came to Bernecourt and now we have
                        pitched pup tents according to squads and I am lying here on my back by the side of Corp
                        Waychoff.
                    I have been assigned to a gas ward. All evacuated by about 5 o'clock The Corp. went to a
                        chateau to bunk so Howard and I sleep together. [B] Hospital at Bernecourt Monday morn. Oct.
                        7th. Moved out to the Hospital. Trade Tents with the other Company, already up.
                    Tuesday, October 8. Sleeted some today. Ward full of patients when I went on duty this morning.
                        Only 5 gas patients. One serious case of neurosis came in for a while. Helped a Sal. Army man
                        bring-over some lemons for the Company. A Sal. Army woman with us. [B] Wrote to Edward &
                        Jack Frost. Wilson says nothing but an unconditional sur.
                    Wednesday, October 9. The usual number of patients today Some badly burned ones. Howard, Lane
                        & I moved to basement of Chateau. [B] Move from Pup Tents over to the Cave. Lane, me
                        & Osgatharp.
                    Thursday, October 10. The biggest rush of patients we have ever had. My best blanket was taken
                        over by the Q. M. Evacuating some of the patients to F. H. 148. [B] British French &
                        American in a Triple drive, gain 3 mi. on 20 mi. front. Extending from Cambari, to St. Quentin.
                    Friday, October 11. Had but a few patients today. Got a waist from a German salvage pile and sent
                        home to Pearl. Cleaned out my dugout [B] Hindenburg lines runs from Metz to Lille.
                    Saturday, October 12. Pay day 143 f. Fixed up the ward till it looks like a real hospital. Heard
                        of fathers death today [B] Pay day, Aug, pay 145 Fr. & 50 centimes. A very beautiful
                        sunny day.
                    Sunday, October 13. Had a good bath and changed underwear this morning. No patients till after
                        supper. [B] German reply to Wilson's Note was sent Sat. Oct. 12 Accepts terms
                        Wilson's asks for Jan. 8th–18.
                    Monday, October 14. We handled 47 gas cases today. Mostly tear gas. Rec'd my Xmas pkg.
                        coupon. All kinds of peace rumors going the rounds of the press.—e. g. 
                            Germany
                         has excepted the peace terms of Pres. Wilson. I'm reading The Rainbow
                        Trail by Zane Grey. [B] Laon, Le Féré & Nish fall to the Allies.
                        Sent tag for Xmas present home.
                    Tuesday, October 15. We had one wild man in the ward with us 
                        this morning. Swearing and praying were his specialties. [B] The fellow that was Nuts in Our
                        Ward. Italian gives me a Souvenir.
                    Wednesday, October 16. Pulled down some of our tents Evacuated all patients. Relieved by 28th
                        Division. [B] Left Bernecourt at 10 P. M. Arrived in Menillot and were billited in town.
                    Thursday, October 17. After traveling a good part of the night we stopt and billeted in a barn
                        loft in Menillot. Our hospital ward tent and one or two other tents are put up just outside the
                        bakery in Choloy, 5 Kl from Toul 3 Kl from Foug. [B] Set up 2 ward Tent. Lane & I go to
                        Foug in the after-noon. About 3 kilm. (Took a bath)
                    Friday, October 18. Went over to Foug this morning and got some souvenirs that I sent home. Right
                        now it is a little after supper. I have just climbed the steepest hill I ever climbed.
                        It's a table land up here and one has a view of some very pretty scenery. Quite a
                        number of towns can be seen. Among the ones I know are Toul and Foug. I go on duty in a ward at
                        7 o'clock. The ward was full by 9 o'clock. Influenza and stomach trouble [B]
                        Lane, Mc Pal Callahan, Jameson & myself go up in the Mountain & around thru,
                        Foug & back to Camp. (Took a bath)
                    Saturday, October 19. I went to bed after midnite. Helped feed the patients. Then slept till
                        noon. We are getting ready to move. [B] Lane & I take a walk. Got some Turnips. Left
                        Menillot at 9: P. M. Got to Pagny at 11: P. M.
                    Sunday, October 20. Pulled into Pagny sometime last night Slept in barracks. Visited a cage of
                        Boche prisoners Left about 2 o'clock in the afternoon and went in a westerly direction.
                        Past thru Sens, Bar le Duc and on edge of the Argonne forest. Stopt out in the country near an
                        aviation camp about 20 K of Chalons. [B] Stayed in barracks. Went around the prison Cage. Left
                        Pagny at 4:P. M. Got near Chalons at 10 P. M. Sun. N. Pitched Pup T.
                    Monday, October 21. Miss Wall's birthday. Waiting to start having [not clear] breakfast.
                        Past thru Chalons Montmirand and St. Jean. Some other good towns whose names I couldn't
                        get. Meaux at about 5 oclock and billeted in the 3d floor of barracks Bish Kreiter 10 f. [B]
                        Left Chalon about 8 A. M. Arrive in Meaux at 5 P. M.
                    Tuesday, October 22. Left Meaux [not clear] Past thru [Erhmannville,] Desert of 
                            France
                         Sevles, Rantigny, Beauvais, Grandvill[i]ers and pulled into Poix at about 7 oclock.
                        Looked over town a little bit bought beaucoup chochalat. Slept in a haymow sans hay. [B] Leave
                        Meaux at 9 A. M. Arrive in Poix at 7 P. M. Sleep in Billets.
                    Wednesday, October 23. Herschberger 4 f 50 Very pretty day for traveling. Abbeville was the
                        largest town we past thru till we reached our destination viz St Omer. Looked over the town a
                        little bit. [B] Leave at 8 A M. Arrive at St. Omer 5 P. M. All go to town. I was on guard at the
                        Gate. A Large town.
                    Thursday, October 24. Left St. Omer about 8 oclock. Past thru Cassel. Not far from part over the
                        boundary line into 
                            Belgium
                        . By midday we were in sight of the ruins Ypres. My imagination had been inadequate
                        in picturing the desolation of 
                            Belgium
                        . Trucks were held up on acct of bad roads. We went up to Hooglide but turned back
                             and past thru Staden and stopt for the nite in sight of
                        this place. Most of us billeted in a German barracks. [B] Leave St. Omer at 8: A. M. Arrive near
                        Staden at dark. In 
                            Belgium
                        .
                    Friday, October 25. After a breakfast of fried hard tacks I went out and looked over the grounds
                        around here. Pretty badly shot up. We had steak and mashed potatoes tonite for supper. Beaucoup
                        fine. [B] Pass thru, Ypres, and the old Hindenburg line. Everything wipped & clean for
                        several mi.
                    Saturday, October 26. Left this morning and came to a convent in Lichtervelde. Its afternoon now
                        and we have it pretty well cleaned up with the view of using it for a hospital. After I had
                        dinner Howard & I got in "Corps" detail and fixt up a Q M tent. [B]
                        Leave Staden at 8 A. M. Arrive in Lichterveldt at 9:30 A. M. Take over a large church or
                        convent.
                    Sunday, October 27. K. P. all day. Witker and Brockway had a few fistic maneuvers. [B] Began
                        Standing Reveille. Washed a few things. 37th Div. 2nd to be in 
                            Belgium
                        . First nite at or in Staden. Church at 2:30 P. M.
                    Monday, October 28. Bathed and washed my clothes [B] Rec'd & Ans. Letters from,
                        Phelps & J. W. H. Got a Hair Cut. Rainy day.
                    Tuesday, October 29. I couldn't know 6 mo. ago that I'd be in a convent or
                        looking over a Belgian windmill. Besides all that I rec'd beaucoup lettres and got my
                        watch fixt. Prix 2 f [B] Rec'd letter from Cousin Florence. Troops pass through all
                        day. Going to the front. A pretty day.
                    Wednesday, October 30. Fox & I went down to see the windmill grind this morning. I had
                        the dentist do some work on a decayed tooth. 6:30 P. M. I am all ready to leave this place. Left
                        about 8 oclock and about 11 oclock stopt beside the road near Denterghem [B] Left Lichterveldt
                        at 8 P. M. Arrive at Dentergem 10. P. M. Pitch pup Tents at the Edge of town.
                    Thursday, October 31. Heavy artillery this morning. Some of it gas An old Belgian lady gave me
                        some bread & coffee. Laid around and slept most of the day. Nothing much to see in town.
                        Went over with two squads to do some manual labor at 145 F. H. Nothing doing. Prisoners. [B]
                        Spits & Graham's squads go to 145 F. H. Heavy artillery firing around us all
                        day & nite. Bring prisoners back. Hallaeen
                    Friday, November 1. I had beaucoup sleep last nite and now at 9:21 I have policed myself up and
                        sitting around a stove with Scully Beaucoup guns early this morning Slack 5 f. Bombs dropt close
                        at nite. [B] Papers drop from a plane. 2 planes brought down. Air raids at nite, several Bombs
                        drop around us.
                    Saturday, November 2. Policed around here a little bit this morning Left in afternoon and about 4
                        o'clock came to [Chryshautem.] In a convent here that was preoccupied by the Boche. It
                        has been shelled or maybe bombed. [B] Left Dentergem at 2 P. M. Arrive in Kriushouten 4 P. M.
                        Located in a Convent. 
                            Belgium
                         Orphans there.
                    Sunday, November 3. I've been cleaning up wards this morning. Finished what I was doing
                        about 10:30 Policed myself up and now its  nearly noon and I
                        am ready for mess. Some of the most pathetic sights of the war to be seen here. Lots of
                        artillery to be heard this morning as well as last nite. Interesting sight to watch the Belgian
                        children play their games. Called out of bed at about 8 oclock to help in a ward. A French
                        battery struck by shell. Got a bump over the right eye. [B] French Artillery Batt. hit many
                        wounded 10 Killed. Was on ward work also on guard. Town shelled all nite
                    Monday, November 4. Went over to Y canteen and got some cakes. More bombs towards getting up
                        time. Loaded trucks before dinner and left [Chryshautem] about 1:20. Past thru Meulebeke A
                        pretty good town Arrived in Pitthem 3 oclock I'm already to look over the town. [B]
                        Leave Kriushtem at 1 P. M. Arrive in Pittgem 3 P. M. Billeted in a Convent. Wire catched Jerry.
                    Tuesday, November 5. I looked over Pitthem in the forenoon. It seems that one man, Ferdinand
                        Veirbest, went to 
                            China
                         as a Jesuit missionary in [blank]. They have quite a statue by the church erected
                        in his memory. I wrote letters in the afternoon. At 5 oclock I called on a Belgian family where,
                        with perhaps a dozen other soldiers I past a pleasant two hours. I am to help guard Bill Graves
                        truck a day. [B] Rainy day. A Y. M. C. A. is here. Plenty Chocolat & Cigarretts.
                    Wednesday, November 6. Rainy dreary day. Pay day 143 f Dentist. [B] We were paid Sept. pay today.
                        145 Fr.—5.50 Fr. to the $. More Clothes are issued.
                    Thursday, November 7. Still dreary looking but I rec'd beaucoup papers and two letters.
                        I had the curious experience of having a Belgian cut my hair and shave me. The curiosity was the
                        way he performed all this. Its 1:20 and I am waiting for the dentist to tell me its my turn.
                        I'm sitting in a Belgian home writing at a Belgian table [B] Rumors that the fighting
                        is over. Wrote to Wilma Fark. Guarded the Truck.
                    Friday, November 8. I've set around and read and wrote letters all day. We move
                        tomorrow. [B] Rainy. The ground has frozen slightly in the last wk.
                    Saturday, November 9. Left at 8 oclock Past thru Thielt. Got here to Deinze [Deynze] in about an
                        hour and a half In a convent St. Henri. Cleaned up the place Noncoms, busted [B] Leave Pittgem
                        at 8. A: M. Arrive in Deynze at 10. A: M. Jerry & Collielr scraps. Set up a Hosp. in
                        Convent. Triage
                    Sunday, November 10. We had the most cases of severely wounded brot in today that I have ever
                        seen I put in one steady day of it. [B] Worked in the operating room. Handled 140 Cases first
                        day. Hostilities cease within 24 hrs. 11–11.
                    Monday, November 11. 11 Novembre 1918 — Cq de F1 — Marechal Foch
                        à Commandants en Chef 1° Les Hostilities seront arretées sur
                        tout le front a partir du onze Novembre, onze heures (Heure Francais) 2° Les troupes
                        allies ne de passeront pas jusqu'a nouvel order ligne atteinte a cette date et
                        à cette heure.
                    Signe: Marechal Foch
                    I copied the above this morning when I went down town. I think its  one historical communique We had some more badly wounded to dress
                        before I went off duty. [B] Last man wounded 8:30 A. M. Husung fires guns accidently. Send Jerry
                        & Keller back to the Base Hosp. Few Patient today.
                    Tuesday, November 12. I took a bath and washed my underclothes today. Not many patients received
                        [B] Fellow shoots himself with a 45 c. Automatic. Osgatharp & I take a 
                            Bath
                        . Separate the salvage junk
                    Wednesday, November 13. I helped Baker handle some Q. M. stuff today. I am better off for clothes
                        thereby. [B] Horse runs over a Frenchman. Higgason and I run over town in the afternoon.
                    Thursday, November 14. Went to dentist again [B] Me, Lane & Shelton go to town in the
                        afternoon. Received 8 letters today. Turn in surplace Clothes.
                    Friday, November 15. Had a clothing inspection today. I went down town and had supper consisting
                        of coffee and cakes. [B] Lane and I go to town at Nite. We met the Belgian Took us to a cafe.
                        Had a drink around. Visited Sp. H.
                    Saturday, November 16. Had inspection with our packs today. Issued a leather vest (Jerkins) [B] I
                        & Osgatharp go down town at nite. Go to the Dance. A very beautiful nite.
                    Sunday, November 17. Hike before breakfast. Pared spuds. Shaub & I visited a Belgian
                        home. [B] Hiked down Town before Breakfast Get Oct. pay. 144 Fr. 5.45 to the if. Began on new
                        Schedule Had my picture taken—a 
                            Belgium
                        . Higgason & I go to the Dance.
                    Monday, November 18. Lcut. Stuckey gave us setting up exercises before breakfast. Then Let. Ray
                        drilled us for an hour. In the afternoon Lt. Stuckey hiked us to a little town and back without
                        the slightest kind of a rest. [B] First Snow to fall. Drill up on Main St. Take Calsentenes
                        before Breakfast.
                    Tuesday, November 19. On guard two hrs ce apres midi. Beau-coup souvenirs. [B] Lieut, Stookey
                        takes us on a hike for an hr. He goes to fast to suit the Co.
                    Wednesday, November 20. Left this morning at 10:10. Traveled along quite a ways counting all the
                        back tracking we did. Along about' half past two we pulled into some little berg and
                        got billited in a room—8 of us. Beaucoup straw and blankets [B] Leave Deynze at 10:
                        A. M. Arrive at Paulaethem. Billeted in a Cafe. Had Beer and other drinks.
                    Thursday, November 21. Paulathem is the name of this little berg. I went over to Maria Laathem
                        this morning. Its about the size of this town. There are a bunch of us left here on acct
                        or' the truck we came over in having to go to some other place for the company to which
                        it belongs. I am sitting here now (10:30) waiting for a Belgian woman to get me du pain et du
                        lait. We left at a little after 12 and came back to Deinze. I had my picture taken. [B] All come
                        back to Deynze. Our Truck stay behind. Lane & I get milk and bread & Butter.
                    Friday, November 22. Capt. King took us on a hike this morning. I weighed 65 kilograms. On guard
                        trois heures. [B] Captain Kink take us out for drill. Part of the 37 Div. go thru, going West.
                    Saturday, November 23. The calesthenics and hikes were not so  bad today. Right now I am in a Belgian home parleying une peu with une
                        mademoiselle—a Beige. I got my pictures today. I don't like them very well.
                        [B] King takes us out in the morn. & Stookey in the afternoon. Rec'd &
                        ans. a Letter to E. King.
                    Sunday, November 24. Came to Oostroosbeke this morning. Billeted in some kind of a building for
                        about two hours, then ordered to make our packs and move to another part of the town. I am
                        billeted now in a Belgian home. The family consists of a pere, mere et sept kinde The oldest
                        being neuf ans, the youngest trois mois. [B] Bird's birthday. Left Deynze at 9:30 A. M.
                        arrived in Oostroosbeke at 11: A M. make beds then move to other side of town.
                    Monday, November 25. I wonder where I'll be one month from today. I won't
                        forget last night soon. I slept just over Shaub on a bunk. The slats came out and I went on thru
                        on to him. Of all the laughing we four, Howard, Lane, Shaub and I, did. Ive had lots of fun
                        today with some Belgian kids. [B] We are billeted in a private home. 4 of us in a room upstairs.
                        Detailed to peal Spuds at the Kitchen.
                    Tuesday, November 26. Capt. King took the company out for a little hike this morning. I carried
                        water for bathing purposes in the afternoon. Right now I am waiting for our turn to take a bath
                        which is to be at 10 oclock tonite. Ho oh! the order changed and I knew nothing of it so no bath
                        for me. [B] I got the best jump while out on a hike. Carry water to take a bath—we
                        miss it.
                    Wednesday, November 27. Wrote some letters in the forenoon. Hiked in afternoon. [B] Bot. Ring
                        from 
                            Belgium
                         Kid. Hike in the afternoon. Boys here have a rabbit feast at mid-night.
                    Thursday, November 28. Today is Thanksgiving Day in the States. No turkey or cranberry sauce here
                        but a good feed anyway. Took my washing down to a washerwoman before dinner. Beaucoup Boche
                        prissoniers past thru here ce matin. It is now about 10 P M. I am guarding the kitchen. I go off
                        at midnite [B] Spit's squad in charge of Ward at nite, also Kitchen. I was kitchen
                        guard from 12 to 2: A. M.
                    Friday, November 29. I have been a soldier seven months today. I went over to a Belgian home and
                        stayed till 10 o'clock in the evening. [B] I & Lane take his gun & go
                        down the river about 2 mi. in the after-noon.
                    Saturday, November 30. I had one fine bath today. That, together with a change of clothes, makes
                        me feel tres bien. [B] Drilled in the forenoon. Have our pictures taken in the afternoon.
                    Sunday, December 1. Today was bright and sunshiny to begin with but by the afternoon it became
                        cloudy I enjoyed reading Brand Whitelock's article on 
                            Belgium
                         in "Everybody's" very much. [B] Wash my clothes
                        & take a bath. Wrote a 2 letters & sent news paper home. No formations today.
                    Monday, December 2. We began a regular 5 hr skedule consisting of calesthenics lectures drills
                        and recreation. [B] Capt. Eyestone lectures on the service given to the wounded. French lesson
                        by George. A big shinny Game—9–13.
                    Tuesday, December 3. The rain interfered with the skedule today.  An interesting lecture in the afternoon by Capt. Borden on shell
                        shock I'm on guard again tonite. We are expecting to move soon. [B] To rainy to drill.
                        All Clean up their Clothes. Capt, Lectures on shell S. patients. Get Pictures. On K. guard.
                    Wednesday, December 4. The order to move came while I was yet on guard. We left about 9 oclock
                        and traveled along thru that desolate country in and around Ypres. About 4 oclock we pulled into
                        Mendinghem [Menin?] (Proven) We past thru Courtrai, Poperinghe [B] Leave Oostroosbeke at 9 A. M.
                        Arrive in Proven at 2:30 P. M. Pass thru, Courtrai & Menin both large towns.
                    Thursday, December 5. Calesthenics in which we did the windmill exercise in sight of two, one
                        running. Squad drill pas bon. [B] Drill 1 hr. in the morning. Lane & I take a hunt in
                        the Afternoon. Up in town in the evening.
                    Friday, December 6. I carried water instead of drilling ce matin. Visited with Finley cet aprcs
                        midi. [B] Drilled in the fore-noon. Lane & I visited the old wind-mill. The Band plays
                        in the Street.
                    Saturday, December 7. Left Proven at 1 o'clock. Crost the border near Rexepoede Stopt au
                        Killem a while. Right now—5 oclock—billeted in a big barn away out in the
                        country. [B] Leave Proven at 1: P. M. Arrive in Hoonshout at 3:30 P. M. Billeted in Barn loft.
                        Flax wheel at work.
                    Sunday, December 8. The forenoon was one of the loveliest, prettiest, sunshiny days I ever saw.
                        Howard and I took a stroll out in the country thru some of the most progressive portion of
                        Northern 
                            France
                        . At 1 oclock we left the barn and by 3 oclock we were in Dunkirk on the North Sea.
                        We past thru Bergues. We are located 6 kl. from Dunkirke in a big hotel near the beach. I go on
                        guard at Midnite. [B] On the North Sea. Osgatharp & I take a walk in the forenoon. Leave
                        Hooshout at 1: P. M. Arrive in Dunkirk at 3: P. M. Guard the K. at nite. Billeted in
                        "Casino Hotel."
                    Monday, December 9. Here I am on guard. A lighthouse is flashing a revolting light in plain sight
                        of here. I retired again at 2 o'clock in the morning and arose again about 7:30. Shaub
                        & I strolled along the beach a while then Finley and I took a round at it. I was on
                        guard again from noon till 2 o'clock in the afternoon then Merkert and I saw Dunkirk
                        together. We bought a few postcards and other souvenirs. Took supper at a French Cafe and
                        English Salvation Army Hut. Letter from Miss Robinson. [5] Spit's squad all go to town
                        on St. Car. 35 centime fai[r] Casino Hotel Termi[n]us. Right on the Beach.
                    Tuesday, December 10. Put up ward tents in the forenoon Rec'd the intelligence that we
                        sail for America Dec. 29. We rec'd 10 f. this noon from a Woman's Auxilliary
                        of 
                            Toledo
                         Supper again in Dunkirk I'm on a street car now on my way back to quarters
                        [B] Put up 5 ward Tents. Move from Terminus to Tents. Go back to town at nite. Rainy day. Hair
                        Cut.
                    Wednesday, December 11. Visited a French battery along the coast. [B] Croft, Shaub & I
                        take a walk on the Beach, also visit the Fortification. Rainy.
                    Thursday, December 12. Sick ce matin. Came to Wormhoudt today.  Billeted 3d floor over cafe (An Tonnelier) [B] Leave Dunkirk at 10: A. M. Arrive in Wormhoudt
                        at 12 noon. Billeted on 3rd floor over the wine shop.
                    Friday, December 13. A frenchwoman cut my hair and shaved me today. Hig and I hiked over to
                        Esquelbecq cet apres midi and got some stuff from the Y. [B] Shaub & I take a walk in
                        the afternoon. Go thru the Church & the Gas flour mill.
                    Saturday, December 14. Rec'd paybooks. Pay day 141 f. 70. Another trip to Esquelbecq
                        with B. Hart. On guard 6 to 8:30 [B] Wood-row Wilson Arrives in 
                            France
                        . Pay day. Nov. pay 143 Fr. 90 centimes. Spit's squad on guard.
                    Sunday, December 15. Peeled spuds 2 hrs ce matin. Cet apres midi Crofts, Hig and I hiked up here
                        to Cassel. Had a fine time looking over the town. Its upon a hill and you have a good view of
                        the country. We are now (4 P M) in a tea room. We have ordered pork chops chips bread, butter a
                        [n]d coffee and are waiting now for it. Hig and I liked our feed so well we ordered seconds.
                        Enough was brot in for Crofts also but he didn't partake, so we two had quite a repast.
                        We hiked back to our billet and related some of our experiences to the boys. I rec'd a
                        letter from Standford. Along about 9 o'clock "Curly" March brot a
                        couple of doughboys who were more or less drunk to our billet They were from 91 Division [B] I
                        was on K. P. 1st since we left Ramervillers. 2 birds come in stewed. Some of 148 F. H. fail to
                        get in.
                    Monday, December 16. Its a rather gloomy day. I have just finished reading the election news in
                        the Courier. Pas bon. I am now sitting in a home occupied by Belgian refugees. There are two
                        ladies here past middle age. They have done my washing for me and one of them now is darning my
                        socks. We had battalion drill in the afternoon. [B] The Whole Sanitary Train, in Battalion
                        drill. Pass a review for the Officers In the Outskirts of town.
                    Tuesday, December 17. I bought a set of spoons this morning. Later on I bought a purse and a tres
                        jolie scarf for mother. I got them wrapped and censored by Lt. Ward. "Shorty"
                        Galligher, Merkert, Beckley and Ludwig represented F. H. 148 when the officers Lt. Ray &
                        Capt. Eyestone rec'd medals at the divisional decorations at Esquelbecq in the
                        afternoon. [B] The Officers & a few men go to a review. Eyestone & Rae get the
                        Div's Decorations.
                    Wednesday, December 18. Mailed my package this morning. In the evening I met with some other
                        fellows and started a brief of the history of F. H. 148 to be used in the division's
                        history. [B] Wash a few Clothes. Company goes out for drill. Read in the after-noon.
                    Thursday, December 19. I read 
                            Evansville
                         Couriers most all morning and wrote a letter to Willie Bob in afternoon [B] Stand
                        Reveille. No other formations all day. 2 trucks go for Clothing. I read & write.
                    Friday, December 20. Set around and read a little bit today. Attended a good 37 Div.
                        entertainment in the evening. [B] Spits Squad on guard my shift from 4: A: M. till wake the
                        cooks. Carp is K. P.
                    Saturday, December 21. It's now a little past midnite and I am guarding the kitchen
                        again. Shaub and I are to go to Dunkirk in the morning. We got ourselves all fixt up and had our
                        passes  signed by the major and partied to
                        Dunkirk. We hadn't been there very long till our ambulance went to Calais and we went
                        along as two of nine Blesse. We had a good time looking over this historical
                        town. Came back to Dunkirk and had a bath and was back to Wormhoudt by a little after 9. Lt. Ray
                        was with us. [B] Osgatharp & Shaub go to Dunkirk. Peal spuds. Get shaved lady Barber.
                    Sunday, December 22. Howard Lane Shaub & I hiked to Cassel ce matin and we have been over
                        a part of the town and now we are in the same room I was in last Sunday waiting for dinner.
                        After our repast we looked around a little bit more Howard and Lane making quite a few
                        purchases. Along about 3:30 we started back to Wormhoudt but Howard & I decided to stay
                        a while longer and risk the chance of going back on a truck or its letting up on the rain. We
                        went into a store where I bought Hugo's [blank]. Then we went to another store and
                        spent more than an hour talking with two French girls who spoke quite good English. When we
                        returned I had a dandy long letter from home [B] Me, Lane, Shaub & Osgatharp walk to
                        Cassel. Rains all evening. Bot several Souvenirs. Get girls add.
                    Monday, December 23. Shaub and I are on detail down here at the Y. They are without any
                        stationery so I have had to buy some. Very little to do in the way of work. Set around and read
                        and write letters [B] I & Easterday go on wood Detail. Me & Merket sends our
                        Boxes home. A rainy day. Letter from H. K.
                    Tuesday, December 24. Xmas Eve. Wrote more letters. We presented the old folks with whom we are
                        billited some Xmas presents…. Heard the same Y entertainment of last Friday nite with
                        a few flourishes. [B] I was on guard 11: P. M.—1:30 A. M. Begin snowing at 2: P. M.
                        Ground not froze—goes off. Xmas Present for Old folks.
                    Wednesday, December 25. Xmas Day. I am K. P. today. A big chicken feed is on. Have rec'd
                        a Xmas card from the same Auxilliary that gave us the 10 f. [B] Osgatharp & Shaub K. P.
                        Rest of Spits squad Speal S. A Chicken dinner. With lots of Extra Notions.
                    Thursday, December 26. Went on a truck to Bernes to get traveling rations. Several companies left
                        this noon but were ordered back. [B] Head-Quarters Move out. Send Fannie Birthday card. The lady
                        prepares my box then do not get it off.
                    Friday, December 27. I slept till 11:45 i. e., I was lying on my blankets that long. I'm
                        feeling rotten. [B] 8 are detailed on 2 Trucks after wood. H. Q. move out then return. Sent 2nd
                        Bx. Letter from H. G. C.
                    Saturday, December 28. My Xmas box came today O. K. I'm wearing a 6 months service
                        stripe. Hiked to Esquelbec [B] Rec'd Xmas Bx. 6 mos "Over Seas"
                        today. Some are wearing their Service Stripe.
                    Sunday, December 29. This makes 8 mo of uniform wearing. I'm in a estaminet where eggs
                        and chips are served. Talked with Carl Block quite a while. [B] Spit's squad on guard.
                        My Shift from 8:30 P. M.-11: P. M. Merket on K. P. Read & Write Some.
                    Monday, December 30. It now is 3:30 in the morning and I am again guarding the Kitchen. I go off
                        at 4' oclock. I awoke Lane  Rec'd a letter
                        from Katie and Virgie. Before the day was over I wrote a couple of letters and looked over a
                        little French. [B] Take a bath & wash Clothes. Peal Spuds. 5 persons dead now in this
                        town with the "Flu." Rainy.
                    Tuesday, December 31. I heard the sad intelligence this morning that there were five deaths from
                        la grippe in this town. Yesterday morning while paring potatoes I made the remark that the whole
                        population must be dead on acct of so much tolling of the church bells. Hiked to Herzelle in
                        forenoon. Talked with returned French prisoner. Over to Wylder in afternoon. [B] Major Sonders
                        has me to look up Sergt. Branigan. This is market day in Wormhoudt. Streets full of people.
                        Tents are sit up all over the Streets. Two more die in town with "Flu." A
                        rainy day. We haven't had any snow yet. The ground has never been froze up solid. It is
                        warm and nice. But rains some very near every day. We hear now that we embark 30th of January.
                        Wrote to Eden King & Mary E. O. Its now 8 o'clock time to close the joint. The
                        room is full of American Soldiers. Reading writing & playing cards. So this is the way
                        the Old year of 1918 goes out. This is wrote with Higgason's 
                            Fountain
                         Pen. So here's hoping the new year may be brighter and happier than the
                        old one. The old lady Treats the crowd with cakes. Rec'd very gladly. Good nite to all.
                    Wednesday, January 1, 1919. I celebrated the New Year by writing a few letters. Here in Wormhoudt
                        today there is a beaucoup des malades there being seven deaths. The first thing I did, tho, that
                        I won't forget soon was paying seven francs to get my right shoe half soled and heeled
                        and my left shoe heeled. [B] Lane & I walk to Herzeele in the forenoon. About 6 Kilos.
                        They are having a Catholic funeral. We go up in the Belfery. We go to the Movie Show at nite.
                        They show Tom Sawyer & Huckleberry Finn.
                    Thursday, January 2. Letters from 
                            Arkansas
                         that read mighty good to me. Jai ais un bon douche oe matin. [B] G. W. Crofts
                        & I go to Esquelbecq 3 Kilos. Sergeant Graham falls in the tubs just as we were go to
                        bed.
                    Friday, January 3. Pay day, 141.70 Rate 5.45 Went to Dunkirk after gasoline. Climbed to the top
                        of the big tower, 200 ft. Bought some presents for the folks at home. [B] Pay day Dec. pay. I
                        drawed 143 Fr.—90 centi. Spits Squad on guard. I was on from 1:30—4: A. M.
                    Saturday, January 4. I went on guard at 4 oclock this morning. It's 5:45 now and I have
                        awakened the cooks and I am now sitting at the foot of the stairs to my billet reading letters
                        Reading a bunch of Couriers and writing letters finished the day. [B] Peal Supds at the Kitchen.
                        Husung & I take a little walk out of town.
                    Sunday, January 5. A rainy day. I bought a "
                            London
                         Opinion" and "Chronicle" and read most everything in
                        them. [B] Rainy day. I play cards & read all day at no. 66.
                    Monday, January 6. I read an interesting Joan of Arc story in the Strand today. [B] G. W. Crofts
                        & I take a walk. We ride a Tommy Truck to Cassel The M. P.'s will not let us
                        stay in town. We go over and climb to the Top of the heighest mountain in this part of the
                        country. We start to another town and get lost. We go to Steenwood which is out of Bounds for
                        American Soldiers. French  officer makes us leave town. We
                        get back to Wormhoudt just in time for supper.
                    Tuesday, January 7. Mailed home a pkg. today. Band concert (French) in evening and cacao Chaud.
                        Reck went on a snipe hunt [B] French Band Plays in the Street at nite. I
                        & Higgason go down. Slack & Tom Wooden take Rex out snip hunting.
                    Wednesday, January 8. Beaucoup parle la madmamoiselle [?] Be[l]gique avec. I'm on guard
                        out here. Hussung & Merkert are out here with me. [B] Spits Squad on guard. Carpenter
                        Serves my term of K. P. I stand his guard from 6: P. M.—8:30 P. M. Teddy Roosevelt
                        dies.
                    Thursday, January 9. Hiked to Esquelbecq alone ce matin. Cet Apres midi I was out with Hussung
                        and McCormack. I'm reading "Laddie." [B] Peal spuds at the kitchen.
                        Have a long talk with the Melle hanging out clothes. Take a bathe and let Hig. take my clothes
                        to the washwoman.
                    Friday, January 10. Another hike to Esquelbecq Ce matin avec Shaub. I spent nearly all the rest
                        of the day mailing home post cards. Shrill bird call [B] Get a Hair-Cut from
                        the lady barber. Hair Cut & Shave for 50 centimes. Shave 20c—& Hair
                        cut 30 centimes.
                    Saturday, January 11. Malade de estomac ce matin. Cinema "Curly" March, Bob
                        Hart Herschberger Abe Stearns June Beckley & Mose Lane "jugged in the
                        brig" at Calais. Brot to Wormhout by M. P.s. Released by Capt Eyestone. [B] Crofts
                        & I go to the Show in the afternoon & Evening also. The M. P.'s bring 6
                        of the 148 F. H. men from Calais and keep them in the brick.—Mose Lane Harry March,
                        Jack Sterne, Bob Hart, June Beckley & Hershberger. They leave on A. W. O. L. while major
                        Sanders is absent from the Company.
                    Sunday, January 12. Read some in Review of Reviews—Simonds' article Une bonne
                        cinema ce soir [B] Crofts, McPal & I attend the Catholic Church in the forenoon.
                    Monday, January 13. Saw "true Blue" at the cinema. I liked it
                        "Bish"… got stewed. [B] Peace Conference begins to-day in 
                            Paris
                        . Spit's squad on guard—my shift from 4–6: A. M. I
                        wake the Cooks. Go to the Movie show in the evening.
                    Tuesday, January 14. On guard from 1:30—4 this morning. Indications point to the
                        effect that that is the last time No 2 squad will guard the kitchen. I went on a hike in the
                        afternoon. After supper I spent a pleasant hour and a half with some Belgian people. [B] Crofts,
                        Easterday & I go down town in the afternoon.
                    Wednesday, January 15. I was out hiking around and fell in with a French lad who could parle
                        Anglais Had a pleasant time with him while he was at work. The latter part of hier was repeated.
                        [B] Crofts, Lane & I walk out towards Bergnes. Lane & I meet on the bridge at
                        5:30 P. M….
                    Thursday, January 16. Loaded trucks preparatory to leaving tomorrow Hier soir encore ein Dommerik
                        ich bin. [B]…. Instead of Roll Call at 9:30 A. M. Bill has us to make our Packs ready
                        to move. We were to assemble at 1: P. M. to load the Trucks I have a date at 1: P. M. also. Spit
                        lets me off. That nite—Ludwig—Lee 
                        Parish—Ralph Foster, June Beckley ex-Sergt. Ross all come out there and find me
                        there….
                    Friday, January 17. At 7:55 by the church clock we left Wormhoudt. We have just pulled outside of
                        town a little ways and waiting for orders to move. Cassel—St.
                        Omer—Fauquemberges—Fouges—Hes-din. Pulled into this
                        berg—Canchy—about 4 P. M. We thot we were going to Abbeville. A sore
                        bunch. [B] Leave Wormhaudt at 8: A. M. scheduled, for Abbeville but stop about 10 Kilos, before
                        we get there. Stay in a barn in a little country town.—Nothing there. We traveled
                        thru some level country during the day.
                    Saturday, January 18. We left Canchy before sunrise. Ere long we were passing thru
                        Abbeville—Martianneville—Blanchy—Neufchatel and arrived here at
                        Rouen about 4 P M In an English rest camp. Big bunch of stews. I stood guard from 6.00 to 9:30.
                        Two trips to town. [B] Leave there at 7:30 A. M. A very thick fog around Abbeville as we passed
                        thru. Cannot see but a little of the town. We pass thru some very hilly & Mountainous
                        Country. We arrive in Rouen at 4: P. M. No one wants any supper. All go to town. Spits squad on
                        guard—I'm on from 11 P.M.—1:30 A. M. About all the Co. get full.
                        I meet the Englishmen. Take a Car back to Camp.
                    Sunday, January 19. I rolled out at 4 A. M. and helped build a fire and called Otley and Callahan
                        at 5. Pretty foggy when we left Rouen ce matin. Chateau
                        Robert—Brionne—Bernay—Broglie We arrive at Gacè a
                        little after 3 o'clock. We went outside of town and billeted in a modern bam. I went up
                        avant soupe and bought some post cards and got shaved [B] Rouen is where Joan of Arc was burned
                        at the Stake. We stay down on the River in English Tents. Leave Rouen at 8: A. M. Arrive in Gace
                        at 3:30 P. M. All the Train is billeted in town but the 148 F. H. We go out to a wealthy farmers
                        residents and sleep in the barn loft.
                    Monday, January 20. We slept till nearly sept heure ce matin. Movant [?]—Sees. Came
                        into Alençon by 11 o'clock. Are billeted in a pretty good quarters.
                        Rec'd mail. I'm writing now in the "Y" [B] Leave Gace at
                        7:30 A. M. Arrive in Allencon at Noon. Ex-Sergt. Lesslie go on a wood detail. Don't get
                        back until after supper. We are billeted in a large building up-Stairs on the floor.
                    Tuesday, January 21. On wood detail ce matin. Issued a sweater by Croix Rouge Americaine. Put in
                        my application to be transferred. Right now I am in the Y reading room. With Cyrus Ragle. [B] I
                        & 5 more go on another wood detail and get 2 truck loads at the same place. Get back
                        just in time for dinner. Lane Shaub & I go to town in the afternoon.
                    Wednesday, January 22. I came down town about 10 o'clock and got a haircut and remained
                        till after 3 oclock. Right now 6:15 Howard, Shaub and I are in the Jewish Welfare reading and
                        writing room. [B] We turned in Our leather Jerkins today. We get new gloves today.
                        Shaub—Osgatharp—Ragel & I come to town to-nite. I'm
                        writing now at the Jewish Welfare Board. Its a nice warm room for reading and writing for the
                        American Soldiers. The room is now full of comrades.
                    Thursday, January 23. Shaub and I spent most of the day down 
                        town at the Jewish Welfare reading and writing room We visited also a very interesting museum.
                        [B] Lieut. Ray takes the company out for Short drill. Osgatharp Shauh Lane and I go to down
                        [town] at nite. Shaub & I go thru the Mesuem at Alencon.
                    Friday, January 24. Squad two on duty connected le cuisine avec. We had our pictures made and I
                        had some made of myself. [B] Spit's Squad on K. P. peal spuds. Lane & I take a
                        walk before noon, we see the big billy goat. Spit's Squad have their pictures taken in
                        the afternoon.
                    Saturday, January 25. On duty encore ce matin. Gen Pershing was slated to review the troops but
                        failed to come. [B] Spit's squad dig a Trench for the 122th Sanitary Tr. We put 3
                        stoves up below. I have my service stripe and Division's insigna sewed on by the Madam.
                    Sunday, January 26. We came to this town, Fresnay, today 24 of us from F H 148 to run a
                        sterilizer, delouserie Lane & I work together [B] 24 men are detailed from 148 F. H. to
                        run a delouser at Fresnay about 15 kilemeters from Alencon. All go in one Truck. We leave
                        Aleneon at 7:30 A. M. Eat an early breakfast. It is snowing a light snow on the ground. We run a
                        day & nite shift. Began work about 10: A. M. We eat with the Supply Tr. up in town at
                        the church. (Rainy
                    Monday, January 27. They made one grand mess of things this morning in getting the men deloused.
                        I came up town and bought me an English Sheffield knife with a chain. Prix 8 fr 50 c. Wrote
                        letters at the "Y" [B] A very beautiful morning, but rains in the afternoon.
                        Osgatharp, Shaub & I go to town after supper. I get a Hair-Cut & Shave. We go to
                        the Show at the Y. M. C. A. it is pas-bon.
                    Tuesday, January 28. I didn't work till noon. I came up here to the Y and wrote letters.
                        In the afternoon we worked pretty steady. I'm up here at the "Y" now.
                        Gen. Pershing reviewed 37th division at Alençon today. A rather disagreeable day for
                        it. Some snow. [B] 37th Division pass in review before General Perishing at Alencon 
                            France
                        . 24 from the 148 F. H. are on detail work, running a Delouser at Fresnay 15 kil,
                        from Alencon. We don't start the Delouser until noon. Shaub & I lun around over
                        town. Visit the monument yard, Sawmill & the Station. It snows in the forenoon and rains
                        in the afternoon.
                    Wednesday, January 29. Worked steady again today I amused mysezlf by trying to read Le Petit
                        Parisien by means of a dictionary. A little bit of snow ce matin. [B] Snows in the forenoon. We
                        run the delouser all day. Fresnay is located on the Sarthe river. The Delouser is located on the
                        river on the North side of town. We eat with the Suppy Tr. at the Church up in town.
                    Thursday, January 30. A little more snow encore. I worked the steadiest today since I have been
                        delousing. Hig and I are up here at the Y. Gen. Jackson and Col Galbraith were looking over the
                        plant today. [B] Snows in the forenoon. Don't start up until 10: A. M. No men here.
                    Friday, January 31. We began using 3 shifts today. I am on the second trick 3:30 to 11:30 [B]
                        Snows slightly. Begin running 3 eight hrs. shifts instead of 2 twelve hrs. We run the delouser
                        all day. Write to W. B. K.—M. E. O.—Dad.—E. K.
                    
                    Saturday, February 1. I read and looked over the town a little bit this morning going out as far
                        as the salvage dump. Kept running steadily from 3:30 to 11:30 [B] Shaub & I take a good
                        boat ride up the river after work at 3:30 P. M. Land and climb to the Top of a Rock Cliff. At
                        the Y. M. C. A. in the evening.
                    Sunday, February 2. Ground hog day. The sun has shone most of the day. I didn't arise
                        this morning for breakfast. I was snoozing away till along about 10 oclock when Charlie Tracht
                        called out "148, fall in! pay day" 141 f. 50 pour moi. [B] Groundhog-day. One
                        year ago to tay [day] I was examinated at Winslow Ind., We get paid to-day. I draw 225 Fr.
                        & 50 centimes. Got my —15.00 back pay for May. They brought our money from
                        Alencon to Fresnay. Shelton, Lane, Shaub and I promenade after supper. Sun shines today.
                    Monday, February 3. The weather is disagreeable today. I have been up town here since 9
                        o'clock looking around. Got a shave and a tonique that cost 2 francs. When I returned
                        to the delouser I learned of the untimely death of McCormack by drowning. He was in a flat
                        bottomed boat with March & Weimer when they were drawn into a kind of a whirllpool. He
                        couldn't swim a stroke. [B] Mack McCormick drowns in the Sarthe River at 1:30 P. M. at
                        Fresnay. In the same boat at the same place in the River where Shaub & I were Sat., 1st.
                        Clawrence March and Weimer were with him. The first man to die from the 148 F. H. He repairs the
                        boatlock that Shaub & I broke. Get a shave at the French Shop. 4 of us go to the
                        Station.
                    Tuesday, February 4. I went over this morning and saw the scene of yesterday's tradgedy.
                        The tank was out of order for a while ce matin [B] We run the Delouser all day. Warmer than
                        yesterday. No snow nor rain but cloudy.
                    Wednesday, February 5. I came up to the Y ce matin apres breakfast and set by the fire most of
                        the time. I went out and bought six mouchoirs pour les fils de ma soeur. Prix vingt cinq francs.
                        [B] We run the Delouser. It rains about all day. Lane & I get a candle and go thru, the
                        old Chateau and 'all thru, the Summer Resort back of it. At the Y in the evening.
                    Thursday, February 6. A force of men are dragging for McCommack's body today. 3:30 to
                        11:30 was the most disagreeable trick I have ever work. It rained. It was slushy. The men were
                        ill-humoured. The basket would come off the track. Bundles would fall off inside. None of this
                        had a tendency to build up piety. That was while I was on duty tho. You should have seen me in
                        the forenoon writing to M. & Mde. Coquel. Pas bonne Francaise! [B] Run the Delouser.
                        Began raining in the afternoon. Get letters from Ed & M. E. O. Virgil Gladish goes thru,
                        the Delouser. I go to the Y. and write after supper. A squad comes from the Co. and tries to
                        find the body in the River, But they fail to find it. General Jackson has the men in the mess
                        line to call "Attention."
                    Friday, February 7. I wrote a letter this morning to Miss Walls. Within the last 3 months I have
                        written her more often than I did in the States. We had the moonlight to work in. [B] Run the
                        Delouser. Shaub and I go back over the cliffs. Looking towards the sun and the River running
                        between us and it made a beautiful scene. The river is 
                        raising. Pretty cold. The nites are light. This old Chateau is where Joan of Arc was held a
                        prisoner by the English.
                    Saturday, February 8. Not many men came to be deloused during my trick. It gets pretty cold out
                        there before 11:30 [B] We run the Delouser. It has been clear all day. The Coldest day we have
                        had. The first day the sun has shined. All day for several wks., Shaub & I go thru, the
                        old Chateau and cross the River bridge and go to the out-skirts of town. Almost miss our supper.
                        At the Y—at nite. It is very Cold & Clear—new moon.
                    Sunday, February 9. There was quite a little bit of ice on the river ce matin. We put thru only a
                        few men during my shift. [B] Lane & I take a hike over the country. Climb over rocks and
                        hills. We meet the Petit Garcon in the lane. He is scared and crying. We get back and there is
                        several men there waiting, but we do not start up until 12-noon.
                    Monday, February 10. I slept till nearly dix heure ce matin. Met Boy from 
                            Madison
                        
                        
                            Illinois
                        . We don't run the delouser at night any more beginning with tonight. [B]
                        Stop running the Delouser at nite. Our Shift works all day from 7:30 A. M. until 7:30 P. M. Not
                        many there. Just after the town clock strikes 12: M.-N. I looked out from the window and see a
                        fellow drunk falling around. Lane & I get up and go down and put him to bed on the 2nd
                        floor. He is gone the next morning.
                    Tuesday, February 11. I worked all day today at the delouser. I heard a pretty good lecture at
                        the Y in the evening. [B] Lane Shaub & I take a long hike, thru, Souge and get our
                        dinner at Douiletle-Joly. We have Egg-Omlets and French fried spuds. We are very tired by the
                        time we get in. We start out about 9: A. M. and get in about 4: P. M. We go thru, the Watermill
                        in Fresnay, Its a very neat machine and does great work.
                    Wednesday, February 12. Lincoln's Birthday I bought some postcards of the scene of
                        McCormack's drowning. We came back here to Alencon in the afternoon In the meantime I
                        have lost my overcoat and several other things. [B] We leave Fresnay and arrive back in Alencon
                        just in time for supper. 3 stays to watch for the body in the Sarthe River. Lynch isn't
                        there when we leave. All come back in one truck which is crowded very much.
                    Thursday, February 13. I was down town most of the day. I bought a collar for Willie Bob. In the
                        meantime and all the time before going to Fresnay I am billeted just outside of Alencon in a
                        littla burg called Le Pont du Fresne in an excreamery building. [B] Our C. O. gives us a
                        holiday. Lane Shaub and I stay in town all day and till 10: P. M. We take in the Carnival, go to
                        the French Show at nite. We have Our pictures taken at nite. Higgason, Shelton and I ride out to
                        the billets in a Truck. A military funeral prossession today, American.
                    Friday, February 14. St. Valentines Day. Lt. Stuckey hiked us a ways ce matin. After dinner I was
                        down town. But before all this Lt. Ray gave us a good talk on how we should conduct ourselves at
                        home—what they expected of us. Old coins Get my overcoat back [B] Stookey takes us
                        out for a hike in the forenoon. Lieut. Ray gives  us a
                        lecture. There's a civilian funeral procession today. A rainy day they all have
                        umbrellas. Shaub and I come to town. The Other fellow returns from Fresnay today. Lynch comes
                        with them.
                    Saturday, February 15. I read "The American" all morning. In the afternoon and
                        evening I spent quite a while in a store where antiquities were bought and sold. I bought some
                        old coins. So did Crofts and Ragle. [B] Do not drill any. We make our packs, but don't
                        move. Down at the Carnival after supper. I talk to Barrett. Callahan, Shaub, Anthony and I go
                        back to the billets. I send my 4th box home. A rainy day. I put the gloves on with Brockway.
                    Sunday, February 16. I went to a French Reformed Protestant Church this morning. They gave me a
                        New Testament and some other reading matter. Came over here to Beaumont sur Sarthe in the
                        afternoon. We have our hospital in the building that is called Hotel du Baton d'Or. We
                        are billeted in a barn nearby. [B] Lane, Shaub & I come to Alencon in the forenoon. We
                        leave Lane there to get the pictures and we go back. Get orders to pack up and move at once. We
                        leave Alencon at 2: P. M. Arrive at Beaumont at 3:45 P. M. Go off leave Lane, he gets another
                        truck. Spits squad on guard. My shift from 9–11-P. M. No K. P.
                    Monday, February 17. Shaub, Howard, Lane and I saw a little of the town ce matin In the afternoon
                        Howard and I and a new fellow went over to Maresche. There is an agency for the Osborne farming
                        impliments here. [B] We stack up Our F. H. Equip, in the forenoon. Osgatharp the new man
                        & I take a hike to Maresche 3 Kil. in the afternoon. We go thru, the Church also the
                        cemetary. They burry their dead in a Vault, one over the other. Its a very rainy day. I get 3
                        letters. Write some at the Estamnent [estaminet] at nite. Shaub & I go to the Dance.
                    Tuesday, February 18. We are eating in a kind of a stable-hog pen or some kind of a domicile for
                        beasts. Howard, Shaub and I was over at the station and set by a fire made by P. G's.
                        Afterwards Shaub and I were on a wood detail that took us beyond Cherance. [B] McPal brings Our
                        pictures from Alencon. Lane, Shaub & I hike to Marescheau 5 kil, in the forenoon.
                        Osgatharp, Shaub & I go down to the Station in the afternoon. Some German prisoners have
                        a fire. We go over and talk with them until the Work trains goes out. We stay at the fire until
                        it starts to raining.
                    Wednesday, February 19. I sat by the stove all morning. Shaub and I hiked outside of town here a
                        little ways and watched them break flax The 146 Inf. gave a pretty good show ce soir
                        é les Halles. [B] Stay around the billet all day. It is raining. We go to the Show at
                        nite over the Market hall. Given by the 146 Infantry. Rain and mud is all we've seen
                        for 2 wks. raining now. The CO. takes a bathe in the forenoon.
                    Thursday, February 20. F H. 148 had a bath this morning. Je promonade en l'apremidi. [B]
                        It is raining. Spits squad on guard, my shift from 10: P.
                        M.—12—o'c. Shaub and I take a walk in the evening. We go as far
                        as the R. R. Crossing, then come back pass the dancing hall. Bronnenberg fails to go on guard
                        and does not wake  the cooks. We have a late breakfast.
                        Priemen-M. Clemneau—gets—shot.
                    Friday, February 21. It's between two & three o'clock in the morning, I
                        am sitting out here guarding the kitchen I have the lantern on my knee as I write. I
                        rec'd three letters from 
                            Arkansas
                        . Went to 135 Artillery show. [B] Raining, Lane Shaub & I take a hike down
                        the track to the Culbert over the Sarthe R. on the R. R. We amuse ourselves by setting rocks on
                        the bridge wall and see who can knock the most off. The Co. gets mail also they issue candy. A
                        can to each 2 men.
                    Saturday, February 22. Washingtons birthday Wrote letters in Hig's ward most all day. Y
                        entertainment pas bon. [B] We go to the Show last nite. Given by the 135 F. A. was very good.
                        Coft, Lane, Shaub & I take a hike. We go out thru, the grove to a wealthy
                        farmer's place and get in the barn out of the rain. Shaub & I take a hike after
                        supper, then go up in the market hall but do not stay for the lecture. I get a shave.
                        50¢
                    Sunday, February 23. I went over to the station in the forenoon In the afternoon I was over to
                        St. Marceau. [B] Lane, Shaub & I go to Maresche, then across to the Railroad. We amuse
                        ourselves by throwing Cans in the Sarthe R. and sinking them. In the afternoon Hershberger
                        & I play catch, then Art Emitt and I take a hike down to the station and back into town
                        on the dirt-road. We go to the Divisional Show after supper. It's a
                        par-bon…. Rainy—as usual.
                    Monday, February 24. A letter from Joe, Minne & Tommy with a money order for one dollar.
                        A K of C man cashes it for me and I buy John's baby a hood. There is a rumor that all
                        the drafted men in F. H. 148 will be detached toute de suite. [B] Lane, Shaub & I play
                        catch a while in the forenoon. Read the newspaper in the afternoon. After supper Lane &
                        I go over to the Market Hall, Chaplain Hughes gives a short lecture on the war propositions.
                        Spits Squads on guard at the kitchen I'm on from 12:—2: A. M.
                    Tuesday, February 25. It's a little after 4 oclock in the morn and I'm guarding
                        the kitchen again. We had an inspection today of our equipment. [B] We have an inspection of Our
                        Equipment. We prepare in the fore-noon but the Inspector does not come until in the after-noon.
                        Then Lane, Shaub & I take a hike around thru, Vivoin, I catch a truck and ride in, they
                        come in later on foot. Raining as usual.
                    Wednesday, February 26. Staid pretty close to the billets today on account of inspection. We were
                        standing in line and some of us had eaten our first course when it came off. Shaub left. Area
                        inspection) [B] Prepare Our Equip, for Inspection. Immediately after breakfast. The Area.
                        Inspector drives up just as we are eating supper. All is O K. Shaub gets orders to leave at
                        once. Lane & I go to the Show over the Market Place given by the 105 Engineers.
                    Thursday, February 27. All men who are going to be discharged at Cp. Taylor 
                            Kentucky
                         were formed into a company today [B] We turn in all medical Equip. All the Co.
                        except Camp Dick & Taylor Det, passes a physical exam. The Camp Taylor men form a new
                        Co. with Major Huitt as C. O. Osgatharp & I walk over to the Suspension bridge. We go to
                        the lecture at the Hall after Supper.
                    
                    Friday, February 28. Inspeced for Cooties and otherwise inspected. I was out in the kitchen 6 to
                        8. Supposed to be on guard. Pay day 142.35. [B] New Co. assembles at 9: A. M. Lane and I go to
                        the Station. We turn in our Salvage. The new Co. has a physical exam, at 1:30 P. M. Lane
                        & I get paid after coming from the intertainment at 9: P. M. I draw 143 Fr. &
                        90¢ 5.45 to the dollar.
                    Saturday, March 1. Cootie inspeced encore. Bought 90 f of souvenirs, to take home. Right now
                        waiting to start over to station. Entrained 4:30 Parti 6. Manger a LeMans. [B] Coodie Inspection
                        in the fore-noon. We assemble with packs at 2:30 P. M. Leave for the Station at 3:30 Hike about
                        4 Kilos. The Y. M. C. A. gives us refreshments at the Station before boardin the train at
                        Beaumont. We board the train at 3: P. M. and pull out at 6: P. M. 56 men to the Bx. Car.
                    Sunday, March 2. When I awoke ce matin we were at Rennes. Traveling 52 men in a car is not as
                        convenient as riding the cushions. Past thru some interesting scenery After a little better than
                        24 hrs. journey we have arrived at Brest and have eaten a substantial supper. I sure was some
                        tired when I finally got to a wet and damp tent. Six of us in one tent. [B] Arrive in Brest at
                        7:30 P. M. We Eat Supper at the Debarkation Camp mess hall, about 9: P. M. We hike about 31/2
                        mi, out to Camp arrive at 1: A. M. We get Tents, 6 men to each one. Callahan and I bunk
                        together. Raining as we hike out to Camp.
                    Monday, March 3. I caypeed all day today. [B] We have Coodie and Equip. Insp. and put up our
                        little Stoves in the Tent, then go get wood. Raining study all time and lots of mud.
                    Tuesday, March 4. Inspected for cooties and otherwise inspected ce matin. Right now about 8
                        oclock I am on a detail working in a ware room. We are here for 7 hrs. [B] The whole Sanitary
                        Tr. had Coodie Inspection in the forenoon. We turn in Bully Beef and Hard Tack. 500 from the Tr.
                        on Detail all nite. I work in the Kitchen. Lane & some others carries wood at the same
                        place.
                    Wednesday, March 5. Right now it is in the wee hours of the morning. We haven't done
                        much so far. Handled 9 loads of sugar [not clear] We hiked back by about 2:30 this morning I
                        slept till nearly noon A bath in the afternoon. [B] Return from detail at 8:30 A. M. Sleep till
                        noon. I go to the K of C after supper, They are crow[d]ed everywhere. Wilson leaves N. Y. for
                        Brest on the Ship Geo. 
                            Washington
                        . Accompanied by the 
                            Montana
                         and 3 other Ships.
                    Thursday, March 6. On detail all day but did very little actual work. [B] Our Co. is on Detail. I
                        go out but get sick and report back to Camp. I stay in bed all day. Mail Comes in. I get 4
                        letters, from—E. H.—H. K.—F. H. & M. E. O.
                    Friday, March 7. We rolled out rather early ce matin and now we have arrived in a truck along the
                        wharf and waiting for orders. Unloaded a barge or lighter McCormack says all day Mauvaise temps. [B] I stay in all day and go on K. P. at nite. H. Goad & I
                        Clean and Shine the Stove. We get done about 1: A. M. and take a French leave for our Tent.
                    Saturday, March 8. Its after 8 oclock ce matin and we have had one inspection. In the afternoon
                        we had our final area inspection  [B] Inspection of Equip,
                        at Our Tents in the forenoon. In the afternoon we make packs and go to the large Hall and have
                        our finial Equip. Inspection. We lay everything out. After supper we turn in our Extra pair of
                        hob-nails. I send 1,000 Fr. by Capt. Stewart to be change to U. S. Money.
                    Sunday, March 9. On a wood detail ce matin Handled beau-coup des pain le premier chose cet apres
                        midi. A bath and change of underwear & socks [B] On Detail doing Carpenter work. We go
                        down at 8:30 P. M. and get an oil bathe and Clean under-wear. Capt, Stewart returns our money,
                        not till the 10th Mon.
                    Monday, March 10. Encore inspection ce matin We are getting ready to leave Camp Pontanezen toute
                        de Suite. But we didn't get very far. We merely hiked over here to some barracks. [B]
                        We make packs immediately after breakfast. We have Coodie Inspection and move to the framed
                        barracks before noon. After noon we get blankets and bed socks issued to us.
                    Tuesday, March 11. On a kind of a carpenter detail today. I salvaged a good fitting pair of shoes
                        and some leather gloves [B] Co. on Detail taking up and laying new duck boards in the mud. It is
                        a very uncomfortable job.
                    Wednesday, March 12. I gold bricked all morning. But I'll tell the world that the detail
                        I was on in the afternoon was no gold bricker's detail. We carried tent floors. [B] Co.
                        on Detail after running all over the Camp we find Our job carrying sections of floors for Tents.
                        A Capt, balls Our Sergt. out for resting on this end of the job.
                    Thursday, March 13. Carried 2 x 4's ce matin. Ditched and burnt shaved [?] cork cet
                        apres midi. Met Elmer Rhodes after supper. I hadn't seen him for 13 yrs. [B] My
                        Birthday, 25 yrs. old. Raining all day. Our Co. on detail digging ditches around barracks.
                        Wilson arrives in Brest at midnight.
                    Friday, March 14. Moved to a barracks in Section 9 ce matin. Afterwards I was a guard at the exit
                        of the "Y" canteen We are to partee demain [B] Last day to Spend in 
                            France
                        . We Clean around barracks in the afternoon. In the forenoon we moved to other
                        barracks to stay one nite. Turn in and get different blankets again. Take a bathe at 8:30 P. M.
                        Last one in 
                            France
                        .
                    Saturday, March 15. Had a pack inspection first thing Delouser burnt just after we came away
                        After dinner we hiked to the docks. Red X treat. Nenette 3:30. 4:00 
                            Montana
                        . Left Brest at 6 oclock Seasick. [B] Make packs and police up before-noon. Have
                        dinner at 11:30 A.M. Leave Camp 12:30, Arrive at docks at 1:30 P.M. We board a small ship out to
                        the 
                            Montana
                         at 4: P. M. She starts to pull out at 6: P. M. I get good and Sea sick immediately
                        after Supper. The Delouser & Laundry buildings burn up just before noon.
                    Sunday, March 16. Beaucoup de mal de mer [B] They have Chicken for dinner on the boat.
                        I'm too sick to Eat any at all. Stay down in the Deck on my bunk about all day.
                    Monday, March 17. St. Patricks Day. J'ai le meme chose aujourd'hui [B] Still
                        Sick. It is Cloudy and windy. I was out on Deck  part of the
                        day. The 2 best days speed was 376 mi, in 24 hrs. from noon one day until noon the next.
                    Tuesday, March 18. I ate a little bit today [B] Still sick at my bunk the most of the day.
                        Lane's birthday 2(5 yrs. old. Its a fine day.
                    Wednesday, March 19. We sure are sailing pretty these days. Read some today and wrote some
                        letters Put in a radio message ce soir 11 words —1.70. Movies, "Tres Arms
                        and a Girl" [?] Band concert. [B] I feel some better was out on Deck about all day.
                    Thursday, March 20. Stood two hours this morning waiting for a haircut. Division entertainment ce
                        soir. I had a box seat but I had to stand on it 3 of us. [B] Don't feel as well today.
                        On my bunk about all day.
                    Friday, March 21. Field day—so-called—We scrubbed everything Movies
                        & band concert cesoir [B] Mary's school is out today according to previous
                        dates. The weather is fine I stay on Deck the most of the day. We see several fish jump in the
                        water just about Sun down.
                    Saturday, March 22. A rough sea all day that continued as long as I lay awake At noon we surely
                        got one wetting. We had to stand up there on the upper deck (super structer) while it fairly
                        poured the rain till the M. P. permitted us to go down Past a sailing vessel Band concert. [B]
                        The Sea is very rough, the worst day we had. A windy day. We have 2 Coodie Inspections on the
                        boat.
                    Sunday, March 23. The day was pretty and clear this morning but it surely is mauvaise temps now.
                        [B] We have Service on Deck. The Band plays & we sing. The Chaplain gives us a short
                        talk. The morning is bright and Calm but we hit a heavy fog about noon. The Capt, blows the Ship
                        whistle every Min, or too.
                    Monday, March 24. I arose by 5 oclock ce matin. It surely was windy and cold on the upper deck
                        trying to eat breakfast, I made my roll and shaved before breakfast Pretty soon we were seeing
                        signs of God's country. I saw the Statue of Liberty before 11. Welcome, Camp Mills. [B]
                        Sight first land about 8: A. M. A clear and beautiful day. We anchor at the head of Channel for
                        1 1/2hrs. We are having mess while passing the Statute Of Liberty at 12: noon. We dock at 12:30
                        P. M. We unboard the 
                            Montana
                         2:30. Take the General Weston down the Hudson R. to Lg. Is. Take a Tr. to Camp
                        Mills. Go to the Delouser at Mid-night.
                    Tuesday, March 25. Today has been the most wonderful 24 hrs. I nearly ever spent. Beginning with
                        just midnite I had a bath and was deloused. Then slept till 7 oclock Read and wrote some letters
                        before noon. Borrowed —10 of Howard. Got a pass to 
                            New York
                        . Came into the city and while viewing the sights on 5th Avenue was taken into Mr.
                        and Mrs. Pratts car and shown a great deal more of it besides Centra) park Riverside and 
                            Columbia
                         Univ. Their chauffer took mo to dinner and to the Vanderbilt theatre then
                        afterwards showed me some more of the town. [B] Sister May's birthday. Lane & I
                        go to the Camp Exchange and get beaucoup Eats. The weather is fine, the first morning is Clear
                        and bright. Several go to the City. The 27th Div, parades in the city today. Mail from home
                        wrote 22nd Sat.
                    
                    Wednesday, March 26. Its about 6 o'clock and I am up and drest after having slept since
                        a little after midnite at the Platt apartments. Had a fine breakfast and then came back here to
                        Cp Mills. I rec'd some mail, the first direct letter from home in a long time. [B] More
                        goes into the city today. I go to the movie show at the "Y". Address for a
                        History of the 37th Div. "Billets and Bullets," Camp Sherman Chillicothe O.
                        Price —1.10
                    Thursday, March 27. Reading the newspapers and writing letters took up most of the day. Along
                        about 8 oclock the company went down to a laundry and prest our uniforms I came back by 9:45 p m
                        and I am now on guard at the latrine [B] We go at 8:30 P.M. and press our Clothes at the Camp
                        Laundry. Lane, Higgason. Crofts & I stop at the dance in the Recreation Hall, just
                        pouring the rain, A very large crowd was there. We get back to Quarters about 12:30 A. M. I send
                        a package home. Postage 38¢
                    Friday, March 28. It is now nearly 3 oclock in the morning. Murphy & I went down and had
                        some eggs at the kitchen. It has been raining nearly all night and the wind is strong. Pas bon.
                        Comme Ca! By 6 o'clock it began to snow. The wind began to blow. By noon and after it
                        was a young blizzard. The company was at the Liberty Theatre. Its getting along toward 9
                        o'clock and the blizzard has not yet abated. [B] Snowing and blowing terrible all day.
                        The Co. is on Detail but its to bad and we come back and do not work any all day. Pretty serious
                        storm in N. Y. city. 5 persons are killed, Ships are broke loose from the docks causing much
                        distress.
                    Saturday, March 29. Pretty cold again today. Sat around at "Y" most of the
                        time, Saw a rather bum movie in the evening. [B] We are confined to quarters, except to the
                        "Y" by permission. Lane, Shaub, Crofts and I go over the "Y"
                        and spend the afternoon. We go to the "movie" at the "Y"
                        after supper. They showed "Margueriete Clark" Shaub goes to the Station ready
                        to go to Camp Dicks in the morning.
                    Sunday, March 30. Howard, Lane and I went to 
                            New York
                         City today. We were out to the Bronx Park. Very interesting for all of us. [B]
                        Clocks are run up 1 hr. today to conserve an hrs, daylight. Osgatharp, Lane & I go to
                        the city. We go out to the "Bronx" Zoological & Botanical gardens. Get
                        back to Camp at 11:30 P. M. Board the Train at the Penn. station get of at Garden
                        city—Camp Mills.
                    Monday, March 31. I've done nothing all day but sit around and read a little bit. I hear
                        we move Wednesday. [B] Liberty Theatre is on 3rd Ave. I go to the Y. M. C. A. in the forenoon. A
                        detail is out from our Co. Go 'to the "Movie" at the
                        "Y" after supper. "Mary Pickford" 5 reel feature. Was here
                        nite before last they showed "Marguriete Clark."
                    Tuesday, April 1. To-day was spent mostly in the barracks. I went over and wrote three letters at
                        the Y and also sat in a K. of C. building and read the Evening Telegram quite a while. [B] We
                        got orders not to leave the barracks without permission. Expecting orders to move. We have
                        Coodie inspection. Play a little poker at nite before going to bed. April fools day.
                    Wednesday, April 2. I mailed home a package of stuff I had 
                        carried over from the other side. Made my roll. Supper at 4 oclock. Left the barracks at 5
                        oclock Loaded on the Pullmans at 6:25 at Clinton Road Garden city L. I. [B] We leave Camp at 5:
                        P. M. Board the Train at 7: P. M. cross the 
                            Brooklyn
                         Suspension bridge just after dark. 
                            Garden City
                         is the nearest station on Long Island for us to get on or off the Train going to or
                        from the City.
                    Thursday, April 3. When I awoke this morning we were in 
                            Syracuse
                        
                        
                            N. Y.
                         We were given a good feed by the Red Cross ladies at 
                            Rochester
                        
                        
                            N. Y.
                         This was repeated at Buffalo N. Y. We stopt off for a little while at Erie 
                            Pennsylvania
                        . Our best feed was at Cleaveland 
                            Ohio
                        . At 8:10 P. M. I was walking through the Union Station 
                     Toledo, Ohio
                  …. and I saw some of the city but I couldnt go his pace. I
                        was in my bunk by 11 o'clock. [B] The Red Cross feeds us at 
                            Rochester
                        
                        
                            N. Y.
                         about 9: A. M. and at Buffalo N. Y. about noon. All the Engines in the yards at
                        Buffalo send out long blasts as we pass thru. The Red + feeds us again at Erie Pa. Also at 105th
                        St. 
                            Cleveland
                        
                        
                            Ohio
                        . A large crowd meets us at the station at 
                            Toledo
                        . The Coaches sets on the siding until we leave town.
                    Friday, April 4…. came dragging in drunk about 8 o'clock. Breakfast at the
                        Union Station given by 
                            Toledo
                         Chamber of Commerce and the Red Cross. Ready to begin hike in parade by 9:30.
                        Parade lasted till 10:45. Doughnuts & coffee at Salvation Army and dinner with Masons.
                        In the "Y" now 3:30. I have written two letters and had a shower bath. Hiked
                        quite a bit round over the city. Went to the office of the 
                            Toledo
                         Blade and had some copies sent to some addresses I left there. I was back to the
                        Union Depot by 7:30…. had the bed so occupied that I asked Searight to sleep with
                        him. [B] About 1/2 of the 112th Sanitary Tr.—135th P. A. and the Signal Batt. gives a
                        Parade in 
                            Toledo
                         O. G. W. Crofts & I spend the After-noon and evening together in 
                            Toledo
                         O. We go to one Show "Border Raiders." Easterday & I get
                        a ride from the Y. M. C. A. where we finished the parade to the Union Station. We leave our
                        Packs at the Train. Leave 
                            Toledo
                         about 11: P. M.
                    Saturday, April 5. I don't know when we left 
                            Toledo
                         for about all I did was to sleep altho Searight and I didn't exactly fit
                        the upper berth. Some time this morning, some say between 6 & 7 oclock, we put thru 
                            Columbus
                        . We came on down here to 
                            Chillicothe
                         and detrained at Camp Sherman. Had our usual inspection and by 11 oclock we were in
                        barracks Its now afternoon and we have had a fairly good meal. [B] We arrive in 
                            Chillicothe
                         at 8:30 A. M We go right out into the Camp on the Train. As soon as we get off, the
                        first thing is an Inspection before we ever get located. The weather is fine, pretty warm. We
                        don't have any breakfast and get dinner in Camp at 12 noon. Lane & I go to the
                        Colored Ball game. After supper Crofts and I walk over the Camp.
                    Sunday, April 6. Two years of war for U. S. I staid in just about as close today as I did two
                        years ago today at Ft. William Henry Harrison, 
                            Montana
                        . Check roll for physical disability, pay books examined, turned in medical belt
                        with ration bag, shelter half, rain coat and one O. D. shirt. Very poor food Nigger cook. [B]
                        I'm on K. P. colored Cooks. We have inspection about 8: P. M. of Equipment.  Then turn in Rain-Coat—Medical Belt, and ration bag,
                        canteen, hatchet, and Shelter half. Several visitors in Camp. This is Edward's birthday
                        and 2 yrs. since the U. S. declared war. At the Y. M. C. A. Today has been warm and fine.
                    Monday, April 7. Final physical exam, this morning. I had to caypee along with 6 others for about
                        4 hrs. Our destinations home, addresses and religious affiliations were ascertained this
                        afternoon. Hard up for money. Pawned my German 5 mark piece to Ragle for 1 dollar. [B] We have
                        our physical exam. Sign up several paper. I write to Aunt Laura Stewart yesterday. I play a
                        little Poker. Fill out blanks for our tickets. Take a bathe.
                    Tuesday, April 8. Papers connected with our insurance were endorsed or something of the kind done
                        to them today. Also data concerning our births and induction into the army held our attention
                        tonight. Besides all this they did something more with our insurance. Then we signed the payroll
                        and discharge papers. They had to rewrite mine. [B] We Sign up more papers. Get an ans. from
                        Aunt Laura. I write to Dewey G.
                    Wednesday, April 9. This makes eleven months and eleven days for me in the service. We were
                        returned our raincoats (Slickers) today. We turned in our pay books also. Washed some of my
                        clothes today. Officers were in the mess hall at supper investigating our eats. Picture taken
                        with F. H. 148. I wired to Shirley for —30. The coloured troops had a feed tonight. I
                        took a hand out. Writing this in No 1. Exchange Club Room. [B] Lay around barracks all day. Play
                        a little ball. After supper Lane & I go up towards town. Lane buys a suit case. I go to
                        the place I roomed while working here. The house is all lit up but no one at home. Take a bathe.
                    Thursday, April 10. Requisitioned for and rec'd blouse and trousers today. The blouse is
                        a misfit, filled out a statement concerning our service. Such as date of entering the service,
                        becoming a member of the 37 div: date of sailing over & back with the names of boats
                        transporting us, nationality of parents and our religious and political views. Sa[w] a good
                        movie of 37 div activities in 
                            France
                         and 
                            Belgium
                        . [B] Raining today. I wash some Clothes. 10 men from the Co. are detailed to wash
                        canteen covers. I miss it. Lane & I go up in town. I play 3 games of pool. It just pours
                        the rains as we come back to camp. We ride part of the way back in a bus but get wet.
                    Friday, April 11. 32 years old today. Lecture & music at "Y".
                        Employment cards. Reed —30.00 from Shirley O. K. Went to 
                            Chillicothe
                         and had my blouse that I rec'd in exchange for the one I got yesterday,
                        altered. Bought some shoes, service stripes, insignia and had them sewed on. [B] We go to the Y.
                        in the afternoon and get information Concerning leaving & Insurance and employment. The
                        Band Play". We get our Discharge stripes after supper and sew them on. Later in the
                        evening Lane & I walk over Camp some then go to the Community house where a Big Dance is
                        on.
                    Saturday, April 12. Arose at 5 oclock this morning. Turned in blankets and mess kits. Cleaned out
                        stove in Barracks. All ready to receive discharge and money so I can parti. Paid and discharged
                             at 11:30. Went to 
                            Chillicothe
                         and had a bite to eat and visited the barber. This cost me —1.10 Left on
                        B & O for Cincy. Have arrived and are on another B. & O. bound for 
                            Louisville
                         about 6 o'clock. Detrained at New 
                            Albany
                        . Southern home. [B] We get Our Discharge at 11: A. M. Leave 
                            Chillicothe
                         at 2:30 P. M. Arrive in Cincinatti at 5:30 P. M. Leave Cincy at 9: P. M. Arrive at 
                            Washington
                         2:30 A. M. We go to a Restaurant and stay until 6: A. M. when we leave for Hosmer.
                        Buy a pair of Shoes in 
                            Chillicothe
                         for —7.50.
                    Sunday, April 13. The Southern wouldn't stop for me at Winslow so I went on to 
                            Oakland City
                         and stayed at New Cherry Hotel. Arose at 7 o'clock and took the
                        "Plug" for Winslow. Went over to Shirley's and had breakfast. Cliff
                        was in town. At home by noon. Mother at Condiffs. Sent for her. C. E. in the evening. [B] Arrive
                        in Hosmer at 7:30 A.M. Several are at our house in the after-noon. Uncle Dick takes me up to
                        Aunt Al's in the car. I go to Hosmer to Easter practice. Florence is down here. She
                        stays at Aunt Al's.
                    Monday, April 14. Looked over the place a bit. Up to Geo. Garlands in afternoon. Talked with Aunt
                        Charlotte a while in evening. Get instructions from Ben as to how to take the enumeration of the
                        township. [B] I go up home with Florence in the forenoon stay all nite and all day the next day.
                        J. W. H. comes home with me. We go to Hosmer and stay all nite with Mose.
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Our Landed Heritage, The Public Domain, 1776–1936. By Roy M. Robbins. (
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 
                        Princeton
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , c. 1942. Pp. xii, 450. —5.00.)
            Professor Robbins of 
                        Butler
                     University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , has made an important contribution in the field of American history that should be of
                    interest to the readers of the Indiana Magazine of History. It is a history of the
                    public lands of the 
                        United States
                     in all of its aspects from the beginning to the present. It contains much to illustrate
                    the influence of unoccupied lands in national development. Even members of the historical profession
                    are likely to be surprised at the ramifications of the subject as they read this volume. Such
                    Indiana figures as William Henry Harrison, George W. Julian, and Albert J. Beveridge, are referred
                    to in the account of the land policies under which either Indiana or the Far West were settled.
            At the beginning it retells the well-known story of the creation of the public domain by the cession
                    of the land claims of the original states and of the formation of the original national land policy.
                    The credit system, closely connected with the labors of William Henry Harrison, was the policy of
                    the government from 1800 to 1820. It is declared to have played an important part in causing the
                    panic of 1819 and to have been more favorable to the speculator than to the actual settler. The
                    futile sectional struggle over the land policy, the importance of land speculation, and its
                    influence in causing the panic of 1837 led the author to conclude that the speculator class again
                    benefited more than the settler, that speculation wrought great harm to the country, and that the
                    land system offered little aid to the suffering wage-earners of the East. The successful contest of
                    the frontier to secure preemption is described as the culmination of the democratization of the
                    public land system. The West then pressed for the homestead policy only to be defeated for many
                    years.
            The westward movement, caused in part by the immigration of thousands of Europeans, served to attract
                    many thousands more and to expand the national boundaries westward to the Pacific, southward to the
                    Rio Grande, and northward to the forty-ninth parallel. Into this vast region came the mining,
                    lumbering, and transportation corporations,  which secured land
                    in one way or another. The canal grants and the grant to the Illniois Central Railroad became
                    precedents for later action. The slave interests continued to block the movement for free land to
                    the settler. In 1857 speculation again played its part in subjecting the nation to the experience of
                    another panic.
            Republican victory in 1860 was followed by the passage of the Morrill Land Grant College Act which
                    many westerners opposed as a raid on the public domain under the guise of an aid to education but in
                    reality as an aid to speculators. The Homestead Act was also passed, threats made to confiscate the
                    land of southerners, and the public domain thrown wide open to railroad grants. The Homestead
                    principle is not regarded as the greatest democratic measure of all times but as the
                    "capstone" of a vanished era.
            During and after the Civil War a considerable amount of the public domain was quickly seized in a mad
                    scramble involving the settler, cattle and sheep barons, railroad corporations, and timber and
                    mining kings, in which the settlers fared badly because of graft, corruption, and very imperfect
                    legislation and administration. Numerous conflicts arose between the railroads and the homesteaders
                    as to priority of claim and again the settler generally came off second best. After long effort
                    Congress was persuaded to declare forfeited all railroad land grants not earned by them, although
                    appeals to the courts sometimes defeated the efforts of the government. The lack of good
                    agricultural lands also influenced Congress in breaking up the Indian reservations. During these
                    later years the land laws were revised, some of the most objectionable being repealed, and some of
                    the most glaring abuses were ended.
            The final phase of the history of the public domain concerned the conservation movement. Theodore
                    Roosevelt's tremendous enthusiasm and energy guided by Gifford Pinchot seem not to have
                    resulted in action that was without fault. William H. Taft pursued a somewhat more judicious path,
                    but it remained for Woodrow Wilson to rectify many of the mistakes of the early phases. The attitude
                    of the Far West in opposing Roosevelt and Pinchot is described not as opposition to conservation but
                    to methods which often played into the hands of the corporations. The first World War interrupted
                    the movement for conservation as well as the efforts  to reform
                    its various procedures in the interest of the people and particularly of the West. In the late
                    twenties and thirties this reform was accomplished.
            This volume has both virtues and defects. It is a much needed summary and it is not a rehash of
                    previous works on the subject. It treats the political and sectional phases of the entire subject as
                    some of the earlier works have treated brief periods. It attempts to evaluate the results of the
                    land policies for settlers, speculators, and corporations. Historical investigation has not
                    proceeded far enough in this field for a definitive work. More information is needed in certain
                    parts of the field. For instance, what were the effects of the panic of 1819 and the subsequent
                    reduction of the price of land in 1820 upon speculator and settler? What were the results of the
                    specie circular and the panic of 1837 upon land distribution between the speculator and the settler?
                    Is further study not needed in regard to the method of obtaining agicultural land in the central and
                    western parts of 
                        Nebraska
                     and 
                        Kansas
                    ? Since the climatic handicap was serious, how did farmers secure ownership if
                    railroads, speculators, and cattle barons were so favored? The author also seems to react too much
                    against the older viewpoint which regarded the development of the land policy as the
                    people's triumph. Correction was needed, but Professor Robbins seems too ready to accept
                    estimates, and they are estimates, of the greater advantage of the speculator in contrast to the
                    settler, too ready to accept estimates of corporate stealing, official misconduct, and of the
                    people's mistreatment. At times the reader might reasonably pause and ask: "If all
                    this is true, how did the settlers manage to get any land?" Of course, this results from
                    the extensive narration of the sordid aspects of the subject, and is not the author's
                    conclusion.
            There are several little errors that scarcely deserve to be noticed, such as the classification of 
                        Florida
                     and 
                        Alabama
                     as western states in 1856 (p. 164), and the failure to explain "wagon road
                    corporations" (p. 378). More serious is the lack of footnote references to certain other
                    works in related fields and the fact that the bibliography is quite selective and is confined to
                    secondary works.
            
            It should be said in conclusion that the good features of this very useful volume exceed its defects.
            Indiana University
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               Drivin' Woman. By Elizabeth Pickett Chevalier. (The Macmillan Company, 
                        New York
                    , 1942. Pp. 652. —2.75.)
            On a canvas stretching from the Atlantic seaboard to the 
                        Mississippi
                     River, and from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        Virginia
                    , during the half-century following the close of the Civil War, the author of Drivin' Woman has sketched the broad outlines of what might have been a
                    great story; but she has not written a great book. The beginning, a series of scenes in the South of
                    the early reconstruction period, combines the familiar ingredients of impoverishe southern
                    aristocracy, faithful Negro servants, newly-freed blacks, renegade whtes, and "damn
                    Yankees." Had Margaret 
                        Mitchell
                     not previously blazed the trail through this period and blazed it well, Mrs.
                    Chevalier's account of reconstruction as it affected the Moncure family might have bulked
                    larger in literature treating the post-war South; but as it stands, the latter adds little to a
                    superior original.
            Comparison of Drivin' Woman with Gone with the Wind is
                    inevitable. The main characters of both novels spring from the same southern soil; they are the
                    products of the same set of circumstances. Yet Scarlett O'Hara is a woman of flesh and
                    blood, while America Moncure, the "Drivin' Woman" about whom the present
                    story revolves, is a thing of paper and ink—the stuff of which Victorian heroines are
                    made. Fant Annable, the river boat gambler with whom America falls in love, is at best a shadowy
                    figure, a pocket-sized Rhett Butler, with none of Rhett's peculiar brand of honesty and
                    courage to redeem him.
            Touching the high points of America's career after she leaves, in 1865, the smouldering
                    ruins of the Moncure plantation, one follows her first to the rolling plains of 
                        Kentucky
                    , where she teaches school and eventually, as the result of a rather incredible bargain,
                    marries Fant Annable. The birth of their son finds Fant a fugitive from justice, having killed a man
                    in a brawl; and America mistress of Foxden, a farm in 
                        Kentucky
                     which a member of the Annable clan willed to Fant's first-born. Through the
                    years, America raises tobacco on the 
                        Kentucky
                     land, shields Fant, believed to be  dead, from
                    discovery on his visits to Foxden, and bears two more of his children. Ostracized by neighbors who
                    question the parentage of her daughters, America escapes the drudgery and loneliness of the years at
                    Foxden only during her infrequent trips to 
                        New York
                     to visit her sister, Teena, and her brother-in-law, Tugger Blake, in their Fifth Avenue
                    mansion. Tugger, a "Tarheel" who peddled tobacco along the country roads of the
                    South after the war, went to 
                        New York
                    , and through a series of shrewd moves, became one of the group of eastern financiers
                    who were attempting to control the production of tobacco products. In due time, Fant An-nable, ill
                    and penniless, comes home to Foxden. With America, he plans to leave 
                        Kentucky
                    , but his presence is discovered, and he is killed as he attempts to escape. Vindicated
                    by Annable's death, America again goes to 
                        New York
                    , this time to supervise the double wedding of her youngest daughter and the daughter of
                    Teena and Tugger. Returning to 
                        Kentucky
                    , she marries Stone Moncure, a wealthy tobacco grower, who with other growers is being
                    forced by the tobacco trust to accept starvation prices for his crop. Thus the paths of America and
                    Tugger once more cross, this time as America fights side by side with her husband in the war against
                    the industrialists intent upon establishing a monopoly of the tobacco market. As a result of the
                    efforts of the 
                        Kentucky
                     growers, and of the Supreme Court decision which outlaws the trust, America and Stone
                    win their final victory over forces of a new era in American life which threaten their happiness.
            
               Drivin' Woman shows clearly the influence of the author's years
                    in Hollywood as a writer of scripts. She is adept at creating and sustaining the action-packed
                    situation. By her emphasis upon the externals of a complicated plot, however, Mrs. Chevalier has, in
                    the main, sacrificed the depth of characterization which would have lifted the book from the realm
                    of a good story to that of good literature. The main events in the life of this
                    "Drivin' Woman," together with many lesser incidents, which might have
                    been packed with intense and genuine emotion, seem to move past as on a screen, and in spite of a
                    rather lengthy acquaintance with the characters, one has at the end no great understanding, no deep
                    sympathy for them. Even in the interpretation of America Moncure, where the author most nearly
                    approaches  a full-length portrait, she concerns herself too
                    much with what happens to America, rather than what happens within her. As a far-flung, fast-moving
                    motion picture, Drivin' Woman might become one of the ten best movies of
                    the year, but as a story spread over 650 pages, permitting a more critical analysis, it leaves the
                    reader too often dissatisfied with sketchy, superficial characterizations. The technique of the
                    scenarist is not that of the writer of "the great American novel," and one might
                    almost wish that the author had not set down the material for this story until she had more nearly
                    perfected her skill as a creative writer.
            In spite of any weaknesses as a piece of literature, however, the book is valuable as an historically
                    accurate summary of an important period in the development of the tobacco industry. The author
                    displays a thorough knowledge of the various phases of the industry, and presents it in an
                    interesting and readable form. For the average reader, this information will no doubt provide the
                    background for an increased appreciation of the romance and drama in the growth of one of our
                    leading American industries. Drivin' Woman is a book for those who enjoy
                    a successful combination of fact and fiction, historical authenticity of background, and a
                    rapidly-moving story, broad in its scope as the era it portrays.
            Indiana University
            Margaret Frances Riggs
         
         
            
               The Diaries of Donald Macdonald, 1824–1826. (Indiana Historical
                    Society Publications, volume 14, number 2, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1942. Pp. 234. $.75.)
            When Robert Owen sailed from Liverpool in October 1824, in search of a site for his proposed New
                    World Utopia, Donald Macdonald was one of his companions. Before this eventful trip was concluded,
                    in the following August, Harmonie was visited and purchased from the Rappites. Again in October of
                    1825 Macdonald was a member of the Owen party which sailed from Liverpool to launch the New
                    Experiment on the distant banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    . The diaries Macdonald kept on these two trips reveal much concerning the genesis of
                    the Owen community at 
                        New Harmony
                     (as Har-monie was renamed), and they also contain considerable valuable material about
                    the Rappites.
            The diaries were discovered about a decade ago by Mrs.  Caroline
                    Dale Snedeker, great-granddaughter of Robert Owen, after an interesting search in 
                        Scotland
                     and 
                        Ireland
                    . Neither the diaries nor Mrs. Snedeker in her Introduction give the reader much
                    information concerning Macdonald, although we learn that he served with British military forces
                    during the Napoleonic era and that during the early 1820's he became linked with Owen and
                    associated with the Orbiston Community, an Utopian experiment in Lanarkshire, 
                        Scotland
                    . It is not clear just what motives or influences caused him to come to the New World.
            During most of the time covered by these two accounts Macdonald was either with Owen or near enough
                    to record the meetings, views and doings of the latter. Before the trip was one week old Owen was
                    involved, although perhaps delightfully so, in discussions concerning the plan and nature of his
                    proposed system, "the effect of circumstances in forming the opinions & habits of
                    society," the pro and con of the system of private property, the proper kind and role of
                    education, and original sin. While in the New World Owen had numerous meetings and interviews, both
                    public and private, where he presented and defended his views with a zeal comparable to that of 
                        St. Paul
                     in the early Christian era.
            At Economy, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Owen and Rapp conversed at length. There Macdonald met a daughter of Rapp and
                    discovered that the latter lived in greater ease than the rank and file of his followers, who looked
                    to Father Rapp as their ruler and guide. The matter-of-fact manner in which Macdonald tells of life
                    among the Rappites is typical of a point of view which makes these diaries of particular value.
            While at Harmonie a visit to what is today called "Gabriel's Rock" induced
                    the entry: 
                        In the yard is a lime stone slab, bearing the impression of two naked feet and an irregular
                            square drawn seemingly by the point of a sick. This slab was found on the banks of the 
                                Missouri
                             not far from 
                                St. Louis
                             by Mr. Fredrick Rapp who sent a boat for it. He conjectures that at some
                            distant period while the materials of it were in a soft state, an Indian might have stood
                            there and drew the line marking the irregular shape. These materials must have afterwards
                            been, petrified by some natural process.
                    Proponents of a somewhat overworked tradition which suggests that Father Rapp claimed these
                    footprints as those of the angel Gabriel upon landing at 
                        New Harmony
                     with a  message to Father Rapp for the society,
                    should perhaps modify their tradition to make an Indian of the supernatural visitor! In any event it
                    seems that the Rappites, pious and religious peasants though they were, apparently were not victims
                    of any such hoax, although the same can not be said for some Hoosiers who have believed and
                    perpetuated the story.
            On the second trip Macdonald arrived at 
                        New Harmony
                     in the latter part of January, 1826. Soon he was made a member of a committee to form a
                    constitution for the society, but on March 4 he departed from 
                        New Harmony
                     at a time when the society was suffering disintegration from rampant centrifugal
                    forces. He gives no reason for leaving; however, there is a hint in a later entry which states that
                    he had learned that the society had "given up idle talking" and each had gone to
                    work at his proper calling.
            Interesting incidents add flavor to the accounts. Students of territorial Indiana will find much of
                    interest in Macdonald's visit to the home of William McIntcsh, Indiana's first
                    territorial treasurer, for a couple of nights. Macdonald found McIntosh living with his black
                    housekeeper whom the former understood was the mother of several of the ex-treasurer's
                    children. McIntosh, then living on the 
                        Wabash
                     north of 
                        New Harmony
                    , related something of his territorial service and disputes with Governor Harrison, and
                    frequently suggested his intention of sending his children to 
                        New Harmony
                    , but Macdonald was unfriendly to the idea of 
                        New Harmony
                     becoming an orphanage for McIntosh's mulattoes. Incidentally, the
                    heterogeneous nature of the people attracted to 
                        New Harmony
                     was an important factor in causing the experiment to be so short-lived.
            The editing of the diaries appears accurate and efficiently done. It is unfortunate, however, that
                    the names of the editor or editors are not indicated. The work was done in the Indiana Historical
                    Society office, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A considerable increase in editorial notes and suggestions would have been helpful to
                    the reader, yet it would be difficult to decide how much more editing should have been done. The use
                    of brackets to enclose both editorial guides and marginal notes of the author may be confusing to
                    some. The want of an index is apparent but no doubt such will be attached to the volume of which
                    this publication is a part. The Indiana  Historical Society has
                    performed a very useful service in the publication of these diaries. Such source material
                    constitutes the needed raw materials from which local and state history is written.
            Extension Division, Indiana University
            Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Report of the Benjamin Harrison Memorial Commission, 1941. Benjamin Harrison
                    Memorial Commission. (
                        United States
                     Government Printing Office, 
                        Washington
                    , 1941. Pp. 344. Illustrations, paper.)
            This Report is House Document No. 154, seventy-seventh Congress, first session. The
                    contents are assembled as thirteen exhibits, most of which are short. Exhibit 2, "The
                    Harrisons," by Ross F. Lockridge, Jr., makes up the greater part of the publication,
                    running to nearly two hundred pages. This portion of the Report consists of four
                    biographical sketches. The great-grandfather, the grandfather and the father of Benjamin Harrison
                    are disposed of in seventy-two pages, while one hundred seventeen are given to the last of the four
                    Harrisons treated. Benjamin Harrison, the greatgrandfather of Benjamin Harrison of later fame, was a
                    well-known Virginian who signed the Declaration of Independence. Those interested in the genealogy
                    of the Harrison family call him Benjamin, the Signer. His son, William Henry Harrison, is much
                    better known as Governor of Indiana Territory, as a general in the War of 1812, and in old age as a
                    candidate in the campaign of 1840 and as President for a few weeks. The career of John Scott
                    Harrison is little known to most people, who will probably gather more information about him by
                    reading the few pages devoted to him in the publication under review than they have ever learned in
                    the past. The "son of one president and the father of another," he remains but a
                    shadowy figure. His son, Benjamin Harrison, who became President a hundred years after 
                        Washington
                    , properly receives more attention than his forebears.
            The letter of transmittal, a petition of the Commission asking Congress to establish a Benjamin
                    Harrison National Forest in southern Indiana as a memorial, and the report of a meeting of the
                    Commission precede the biographical sketches. Eleven "Exhibits" (pages
                    211–344) follow the sketches. These present a variety of material, much of it  of historical value, though some of it duplicates in a briefer form the
                    biographical data presented in the four sketches already mentioned. Reports of several meetings of
                    the Benjamin Harrison Memorial Commission are included among the "Exhibits."
                    Exhibit 12 consists of an excerpt from a volume by Lew Wallace, Life and Public
                        Services of President Benjamin Harrison. The quoted matter relates to the interest of the
                    Harrison administration in national parks and was written by Wallace while his friend Harrison was
                    still President of the 
                        United States
                    .
            If it were not for the biographical sketches, the Report would be much like other publications that
                    present the minutes of a commission. The sketches are of interest to students of American history,
                    and the summaries are useful to general readers, especially to citizens of Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                    . The short biography of the Harrisons by Mr. Lockridge is not critical, but it is a
                    sane and useful sketch. The author deserves praise for the effort that he has made to serve the
                    Benjamin Harrison Memorial Commission in the collection of information and in preparing the sketches
                    of the four members of the noted Harrison family.
            Indiana University
            William O. Lynch
         
         
            
               The Doctors Mayo. By Helen B. Clapesattle. (The University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 
                        Minneapolis
                    , 1941. Pp. xiv, 822. Illustrations. —3.75.)
            This unique book, the story of a famous father and his two famous sons, is more than a biography,
                    although it is not a history of medicine and medical practice. It is packed with interesting and
                    vital material, and many persons who do not usually read either historical or medical works will
                    want to read this volume.
            Hoosiers will be particularly interested in the early experience of the "Old
                    Doctor," William W. Mayo, in Indiana. It is not accurate, however, to say that Indiana just
                    missed having the Mayo foundation, for the doctor left Indiana quite early in his career, and the
                    other elements that went into the hospital were local to 
                        Rochester
                    . A brief picture of medical conditions in Indiana before the Civil War is given.
            If one were to criticize the work unfavorably, it would be because of its length. Numerous
                    fascinating incidents could have been omitted and the busy scholar would not have  lost much of value. The author has in other respects performed a
                    significant service to 
                        Minnesota
                    , the Middle West, the medical profession, and to all who enjoy an excellent biography.
                    The University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press is also to be congratulated on its work, and particularly upon the very
                    reasonable price which it has set upon this excellent book.
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            Recording Indiana's Part in the War
            Seldom has a generation lived in such stirring times as these. A World War, a world inflation, a
                    world deflation, a world revolution, and now a second world war—these are, the events
                    witnessed by the generation born before 1914. We might have preferred quieter times, but the choice
                    was not ours to make. Various roles are being assigned to each of us as the crisis reaches our
                    individual spheres.
            In the hurry of getting things done it is possible that the record may be forgotten. A prominent
                    official offered a criticism recently, stating that when he was assigned a task similar to one
                    performed by someone else in the first world war, he could not find a record of the experiences of
                    the previous period to use in guiding his activities of today. It is always possible that the record
                    may have practical values.
            But the record should be preserved for later study by historians and other scholars. Publications and
                    records of many kinds are being produced in great number these days and many are in danger of being
                    lost. Many of our librarians and archivists are likely to be overcome by the magnitude of the task.
                    Every library should endeavor to make a collection of the records of its locality. If it is the
                    county-seat library, that locality is probably the county; if a library in a smaller town, it is the
                    community itself. Libraries in some of the larger cities might endeavor to make collections covering
                    larger areas. College and university libraries should pay particular attention to their own war
                    efforts, denominational college libraries to their own church records. The State Library and the
                    libraries of Purdue and Indiana University might well attempt a state-wide collection. There can
                    hardly be any objection to any library doing as much as it is able, but a small collection
                    adequately made will prove more useful than an incomplete collection of larger dimensions.
            The cooperation of the public is also necessary. War letters, diaries, and other manuscript sources
                    should be given or loaned to the libraries at least long enough to be copied. Publications of all
                    kinds, particularly local publications, should be given to the libraries. If a local library does
                    not  have room for files of local papers and periodicals, the
                    larger libraries will no doubt take them for preservation.
            The War History Commission at Indiana University will be pleased to receive all kinds of material
                    revealing the effect of the war upon Indiana. If there is any doubt about the suitability of the
                    material, a letter will bring a response setting forth the ideas of the historical profession.
            Other states cannot be expected to perpetuate Indiana's participation in the war. The
                    federal agencies have too much to do. Either it will be done in Indiana, or it will not be done.
                    Indiana University and other institutions are ready to do their part.
         
         
         
            List of Contributors
            Louis M. Sears is professor of history at Purdue University.
            Oscar L. Bockstahler was a member of the German department of Indiana University. He is now teaching
                    in the Yeoman Training School at Indiana University.
            Louis A. Warren is the director of the Lincoln National Life Foundation at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Indiana.
            Caroline Dunn is librarian of the William Henry Smith Memorial Library at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            Mrs. Elizabeth (Sumner) Hayward is a graduate of Simmons College, a resident of Ridgewood, 
                        New Jersey
                    , and a member of the McCoy family who is interested in genealogy.
            Margaret F. Riggs is editorial assistant of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            Donald F. Carmony is a member of the history staff of the Extension Division of Indiana University.
                    He is stationed at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .
            William O. Lynch is the former editor of the Indiana Magazine of History.
         
         
         
            Genealogical Section
            TWO EARLY SCHOOLS OF CLARK COUNTY, INDIANA
            ELIZABETH HAYWARD
            
            From letters and ledger pages preserved by the descendants of Isaac McCoy it is possible to gain a
                    partial conception of what education in early Indiana was like, and of the conditions under which
                    some of the early educators in the state worked.1 Four of these teachers, who
                    taught at two 
                        Clark County
                     schools which have long since gone out of existence, the 
                        Clark County
                     Seminary, in 
                        Charlestown
                    , Indiana, and the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     (Indiana) Primary and Classical School, were connected by blood or by marriage. They
                    were Isaac McCoy, principal of the 
                        Clark County
                     Seminary from 1836 to 1839, his bride, Celenda Alden (Converse) McCoy, his brother,
                    William McCoy and Mrs. McCoy's half-brother, Josiah Holt. All were "on the south
                    side of thirty." Mr. and Mrs. McCoy were twenty-nine at the time of their marriage, William
                    McCoy was twenty-five and Holt probably less than twenty-seven.2
            
            Isaac McCoy, who bore a name that was confusingly common in his day, was a son of John and Jane
                    (Collins) M'Coy of 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana3 He was the nephew as well as a namesake of the Isaac
                    McCoy who was a missionary to the Indians. His birthdate was February 12, 1809,4
                    the very day on which Abraham Lincoln was born. The profession of teaching was his life work. He
                    studied at Indiana University for three years, then transferred to 
                        Hanover
                     College where he was graduated with the first class in 18345
                    
                  
                     1 The author is indebted to Miss Ernestine 
                                Stanford
                             of 
                                Washington
                            , D. C., for permission to examine the collection of old family papers now in
                            her keeping and to use them as the chief basis of this article. The papers have been kept
                            for over a century in a sturdy wooden chest that served as Isaac McCoy's trunk when
                            he went to college about 1830.
                  
                     2 Charles A. Converse, Some of the Ancestors and
                                Descendants of Samuel Converse, Jr., of Thompson Parish, Killingly, 
                                    Connecticut
                                … (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1905), II, 504; tombstone of William McCoy, Silver Creek Cemetery, 
                                Clark County
                            , Indiana; 
                                Stanford
                             MSS.
                  
                     3 William H. McCoy, Notes on the McCoy Family (ed.
                            by Elizabeth Hayward, Rutland, 
                                Vermont
                            , 1939), 9.
                  
                     4 Elizabeth Hayward, Family Bible Records
                            (Ridgewood, 
                                New Jersey
                            , 1941), 5.
                  
                     5 "Isaac has passed his examinations some time ago at 
                                Hanover
                             College, has taken his degrees…. " John M'Coy, 
                                Charlestown
                            , Indiana, September 10, 1834, to his brother Isaac McCoy, 
                                Westport
                             (now 
                                Kansas
                             City), Jackson County, 
                                Missouri
                            . This letter is in the keeping of Mrs. W. E. Davis, Piqua, 
                                Ohio
                            .
               
                     He received the degree of M.A. from 
                        Hanover
                     in 1837.6 It appears, therefore, that he was a man well prepared
                    for his profession. His teaching career began in Indiana, where, in 1835, he taught at the seminary
                    in Wilmington, 
                        Dearborn
                     County.7 From 1836 to 1839 he served as principal of the 
                        Clark County
                     Seminary, taught the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     Primary and Classical School from 1841 to 1842 and, although his father disapproved,
                    taught in 
                        Connecticut
                    , his wife's early home, from 1842 to 1844.8 John
                    M'Coy wrote in his diary during his son's absence: "Have to regret my
                    Son's wasting his time in New 
                        England
                     when he might be more useful to himself and others in the West.9 On
                    Isaac McCoy's return he spent a single year again teaching in Indiana, and then went to
                    southern 
                        Illinois
                     where for over thirty-one years he continued to teach.10 It is a
                    sad commentary on the low pay he received for his labors that a relation should say of him that he
                    was the only one of the six sons of John M'Coy to live in poverty.11
            
            In the 1830's schools in southern Indiana were by no means firmly established. The private
                    support upon which they depended was often irregular. In the tuition accounts of the 
                        Clark County
                     Seminary, given below, it is noted that nine parents gaves notes instead of cash when
                    the time came to settle up, while the notation, "Ran Away," appearing after one
                    man's name tersely tells the story of a bad debt. The figures given in the records below
                    also show that the total return received was low—less than two hundred dollars a 
                  
                     6 Henry W. Burger, Registrar, 
                                Hanover
                             College, 
                                Hanover
                            , Indiana, January 21, 1939, to Mrs. Sumner Hayward, Ridgewood, 
                                New Jersey
                            .
                  
                     7 His brother William and sister Eliza were among his pupils at
                            Wilmington. John M'Coy, 
                                Charlestown
                            , Indiana, May 30, 1835, to his brother, Isaac McCoy, 
                        Westport, Missouri
                     . McCoy MSS, XXII, in the 
                                Kansas
                             Historical Society Library, 
                                Topeka
                            , 
                                Kansas
                            .
                  
                     8 Burger to Hayward, January 21, 1939.
                  
                     9 Diary of John M'Coy of 
                                Clark County
                            , Indiana, January 1, 1842—December 31, 1844, entry for July 29,
                            1843. This diary is in the keeping of W. O. McCoy, 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     10 Burger to Hayward, January 21, 1939.
                  
                     11 Mrs. F. M. Sparks, 
                                Marion
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , August 4, 1927, to Mrs. G. E. Stanford, 
                                Rock Island
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            . 
                                Stanford
                             MSS. The sons of John M'Coy, other than the two mentioned in this
                            account, were Lewis and 
                                Spencer
                             Collins, farmers, 
                                Clark County
                            , Indiana, George Rice, physician, Golconda, 
                                Illinois
                            , and John C., first city attorney of Dallas, 
                                Texas
                            . Martin M. Hester, Descendants of John Lawrence Hester and Godfrey
                                Stough (n. p., 1905), 52–56; William H. McCoy. 
                                Franklin
                            , Indiana, July 18, 1915, to Mary Elizabeth McCoy, 
                                Newark
                            , 
                                New Jersey
                            ; Neander M. Woods, Woods-McAfee Memorial (
                                Louisville
                            , 1905), 297–99; Dallas, 
                                Texas
                            , Daily, April 30, 1887, p. 1.
               
                     year at the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     school, only four hundred eighty-five dollars in 
                        Charlestown
                    , the latter amount to be divided among four teachers.
            In spite of the poor financial standing of education it was an attractive field for some young
                    people. William McCoy, one of the four teachers at 
                        Clark County
                     Seminary, spoke of his own feelings as well as the general attitude towards education
                    when, in writing his sister, Thirza (McCoy) McCormick, he said: 
                        In comparing the pursuits of life I esteem an education preferable to any other. I have a
                            full determination of acquiring an education if health and other circumstances permit.
                            Education is a thing we cannot lose; it cannot be taken from us; it not only makes a person
                            happy but qualifies him for usefulness; he can be useful to others. Yet education has a
                            great many enemies in this country. The very name of college, seminary or grammar school is
                            disgusting to some people…. No person possessed with reasonable principles who
                            will examine the institutions can oppose them. No person does oppose them but those who are
                            wound up in the garb of ignorance and will not listen to reason.1
                  
                    
            
            When he wrote this, William McCoy was only nineteen years old. He backed his opinions with action,
                    paying his father, John M'Coy, the considerable sum of one hundred dollars so that he might
                    be released from obligation to him for the remaining years of his minority, and be free to devote
                    his time and labor to acquiring an education.13 Presumably his father approved
                    his course, for he himself, as a founder of 
                        Franklin
                     College,14 had a keen interest in furthering the cause of higher
                    education in Indiana.
            A more detailed description of education in Indiana and her neighboring states was given by the Rev.
                    Dr. Jonathan Going, corresponding secretary (1832–37) of the Baptist Home Mission
                        Society,15 to the Rev. Mr. S. S. Mallery of Norwich, 
                        Connecticut
                    , in response to an inquiry on behalf of Celenda Alden Converse. In reporting his
                    conversation with Dr. Going to Miss Converse, Mallery wrote: 
                  
                     12 William McCoy, 
                                Washington County
                            , Indiana, February 22, 1834, to John and Thirza McCormick, 
                                Monroe
                             County, Indiana. This letter is in the keeping of Mrs. F. C. Hills, Mattoon, 
                                Illinois
                            .
                  
                     13 William H. McCoy in an undated clipping, probably from The Journal and Messenger, 1891.
                  
                     14 John F. Cady, The Centennial History of 
                                    Franklin
                                 College (n. p., 1934), 21–22, 29.
                  
                     15 William Cathcart, The Baptist Encyclopedia (2
                            vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1881), I, 457.
               
                    
                    
                        In almost any of the western states a person can with but little trouble collect a school.
                            They have no regular system like what prevails in New 
                                England
                            . A teacher has to set up for herself and engage her scholars, which is easily
                            done as soon as it is known that she wants a school. Dr. Going saw a 
                                Connecticut
                             wooden nutmeg peddler who had sold out all his "concerns" and
                            seemed disposed to tarry a little longer in the country. He happened to be where there were
                            about half a dozen men together for some purpose or other when one of them in the hearing of
                            Dr. G. asked the peddler if he wanted to get work. "No," he answered.
                            "Well, what would you like to do?" "Why, I don't know
                            but I would take a school if I could get one." And though he looked as though the
                            thought of teaching school never entered his head till that moment in fifteen minutes he had
                            twenty or more scholars pledged…. Female schools have not till recently been much
                            known at the west but they are beginning to be quite popular in many portions of the
                            country…. From having travelled extensively in the West he [Dr. Going] knows that
                            there are abundant opportunities for teachers to sustain themselves and be useful.16
                  
                    
            
            Before venturing to leave her home in Willington, 
                        Connecticut
                    , Miss Converse also sought advice from a transplanted easterner, Mary A. Clapp, who by
                    1836 had had a year's experience teaching in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , 
                        Dearborn
                     County, Indiana. Miss Clapp's reply, with her impressions of Indiana as well
                    as her advice to her correspondent, is worth quoting at length: 
                        With joy I recognized your name and remembered that we were once classmates at 
                                Charlestown
                             [
                                Massachusetts
                            ] Female Seminary and tho' we were now separated there was a prospect
                            we should still meet on earth…. I made what inquiries my prescribed limits would
                            admit but learned of no situation to teach this winter. The Spring is the time to get
                            schools, as they generally employ men in the winter when they can get them. This Spring
                            there are many schools to be had in this State and even County. As soon as the River and
                            Canals and Railroads are in operation you had best start….
                        The field is truly interesting to a truly philosophic soul who is willing to suffer and toil
                            with a small compensation. There are many prejudices to overcome….
                        I think our Eastern friends have but a poor idea of the Western customs and wants. The
                            information which has been communicated by Agents who have gathered what they could by
                            travelling is very limited and often erronious, tho' well meant, I doubt not. It
                            takes some time to become acquainted and form just ideas; more I think than a traveller can
                            do with merely conversing with a few in a place.
                        As to the climate, it is milder in winter and far more changeable 
                        
                           16S. S. Mallery, Norwich, 
                                        Connecticut
                                    , June 18, 1835, to C. A. Converse, Wesleyan Academy, Wilbraham, 
                                        Massachusetts
                                    . 
                                        Stanford
                                     MSS.
                     
                             than at the East. We have had but one snow as yet. The
                            Summers are pretty warm from what I am told, and what little experience I have
                            had…. The morning may be delightful and warm, in two hours clouds may blow up and
                            Cloaks may be necessary, so that great care is requisite to those who are not acclimated to
                            this region. As to clothing, come well prepared with good durable things, but not finery.
                            [Bring] good Shawls and many of them, for they are poor here, and come very high. This is a
                            muddy region, being of clay soil. However town and country vary much….
                        Our vegetable productions are much the same as at the East but the manner of cooking is
                            widely different, but we Yankees must not be epicures in this country. The people of this
                            state are called Hooshier or Hooshieroon…. As to the expense of
                            coming—it will probably be about 90 dollars, you had better have 100. The middle
                            route is much the best and most expeditious. Come to N. Y., thence to Phil., Pittsburg, then
                            the 
                                Ohio
                             River to 
                                Cincinnati
                            , from thence to this place which is on the River. If you should come here
                            please inquire on landing for Doct. Ferris. At his house you will be made welcome till you
                            can obtain a school. If you can obtain one or two young ladies to come with you bring them
                            and we will find them common schools for they have not many other. Tell them to expect many
                            trials, many which they are unacquainted with, but let this not discourage them, for God
                            will support them if they are actuated by right motives….
                        Same qualifications as at the East relative to education,17 with a
                            facility to communicate what you do know. Manner easy and social but not too free. Their
                            friendship is not so permanent as we have been accustomed to.
                        The art of painting by theory and needlework in some towns is very desirable. A superficial
                            education is most pleasing to young ladies here. The ornamental branches… much
                            thought of… Plain dress is very important as they will be more likely to copy the
                            evil than the good.
                        There is much good society and some hearty Christians such as would feast the soul to
                            converse with…. We have [word illegible] preaching half of the time, no
                            meeting-house, no schoolhouse—keep in private rooms. Prayer meeting Friday
                            evening, Bible class Thurs. eve., Sabbath School Sunday from three to four. The people here
                            will not go to preaching Sunday afternoon any-hour. This at first will seem to you painful
                            but custom will make it seem better after a while….
                        As to baggage, pack it close as possible and take care not to lose it on the way. Have it
                            labelled for this place; watch it close. I am told there is no danger in travelling alone
                            without a gentleman; 
                        
                           17 Celenda Converse's qualifications may be assumed
                                    from her certificate from the Wesleyan Academy, where in 1835–1836.
                                    "She attended… to the following branches of study: The Latin and
                                    Spanish Languages, Arithmetic & Algebra, Nat. Philosy., Chemistry, Botany,
                                    Mental Philosy. & Rhetoric & Composition, in all of which her
                                    recitations and exercises were creditable to herself and satisfactory to her
                                    Teachers." 
                                        Stanford
                                     MSS.
                     
                             take two or three ladies. I should not be afraid to
                            travel from one part of the 
                                United States
                             to the other—no danger. I came about 200 miles
                            alone. I was a month coming (across the Lake I came, which is called the Northern Route,
                            poor enough.)
                        … Come then, dear Sister, I bid you welcome to all the toils, privations and all
                            the luxury of doing good.18
                  
                    
            
            Undismayed by the picture drawn by Miss Clapp, Celenda Converse came to Indiana in the spring of
                    1836. She readily found a district school to teach, about four miles from Law-renceburg. In a year
                    or two she met Isaac McCoy, then teaching in 
                        Dearborn
                     County, and became engaged to him. They were married April 30, 1838.19 In making plans for their future it was evident that Isaac McCoy expected his bride to
                    continue teaching but at the 
                        Clark County
                     Seminary instead of the district school. He wrote her: 
                        It is very essentially to be desired that we return in time to be here [
                                Charlestown
                            ] during the greater part of the week next previous to beginning school. Mrs.
                            Jennings leaves us tomorrow and I am extremely anxious to introduce you to the acquaintance
                            of the citizens before the other school takes advantage of the abandoned state of our
                            Seminary occasioned by Mrs. J.'s departure. If it suit you, I would be glad to
                            return on Tuesday the 1st May.20
                  
                    That she did teach at the 
                        Clark County
                     Seminary is plain from a letter written by Isaac McCoy's father a few weeks
                    later, in which he said, "Isaac with his wife and William is engaged in the County
                        Seminary."21 Many other letters in the 
                        Stanford
                     papers confirm the fact that Mrs. McCoy continued to teach after her marriage.
            William McCoy, whose views on education have already been quoted, was the third teacher at the
                    seminary of whose career we know something. He was the eighth child of John and Jane (Collins)
                    M'Coy, born December 21, 1814.22 His original intent, as shown
                    previously, was to devote his life to education. He attended the county seminaries at Wilmington and 
                        Charlestown
                    , then taught at Livonia, 
                        Salem
                    , 
                  
                     18 Mary S. Clapp, 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , 
                                Dearborn
                             County, Indiana, February 21, 1836, to Celenda Converse, Willington, 
                                Connecticut
                            . 
                                Stanford
                             MSS.
                  
                     19 Converse, Some of the Ancestors and Descendants of
                                Samuel Converse, Jr., II, 504.
                  
                     20 Isaac McCoy, 
                                Charlestown
                            , Indiana, April 18, 1838, to Celenda A. Converse, 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , 
                                Dearborn
                             County, Indiana, 
                                Stanford
                             MSS.
                  
                     21 John M'Coy, 
                                Charlestown
                            , Indiana, May 16, 1838, to his brother Isaac McCoy, 
                                Washington
                            , [D. C.]. McCoy MSS., XXV.
                  
                     22 Hayward, Family Bible Records, 5.
               
                    
                    
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        Aurora
                    .23 Influenced perhaps by a visit to his uncle, the Rev. Isaac
                    McCoy, at the Baptist mission at 
                        Westport
                    , Jackson County, 
                        Missouri
                    , in 1834, as well as by his father's advice: "If you feel like you
                    could devote your life and your all to the service of your Divine Master and the good of mankind,
                    confer not with flesh and blood but go to work immediately,"24 he left
                    teaching to become a Baptist minister. He was not ordained until 1843, so that in the period we are
                    considering he was still employed in teaching.
            The fourth teacher at 
                        Clark County
                     Seminary, Josiah Holt, was a newcomer to Indiana. He was the younger half-brother of
                    Celenda (Converse) McCoy and like her had been educated in New 
                        England
                    .25 From Elizabethtown, 
                        New Jersey
                    , where he was teaching in the spring of 1838, he wrote his half-sister: "If
                    Mr. McCoy should need an assistant for a term or two and thinks there is a prospect of my soon
                    procuring a good school I should like very much to come to Indiana."26
                    Evidently he received an affirmative reply for when Isaac McCoy wrote his wife, then visiting in
                    Lawrence-burg, in August of that year, he spoke of "Brother Josiah" teaching at
                    the Seminary and sharing his bachelor quarters during her absence. "Never fear for
                    us," he told her, "we know how to roast and stew equal to any old bachelors. We
                    have just been taking a hearty repast tonight. O that you were here a moment or two at a time, you
                    would laugh to see us.27
            
            The household was soon darkened, however, by the serious illness of Josiah Holt. A series of letters
                    in the 
                        Stanford
                     collection tells of his failing health, the anxiety felt by the distant parents and the
                    remedies unavailingly applied to check the progress of his disease. A rough draft of a 
                  
                     23 Major William W. Harris, The McCoy Family. This manuscript contains
                            a statement from John Milton McCoy (1835–1922).
                  
                     24 John M'Coy, 
                                Charlestown
                            , Indiana, September 17, 1834, to his son William McCoy, 
                                Westport
                            , Jackson County, 
                                Missouri
                            ; John M'Coy, September 10, 1834, to his brother Isaac McCoy, 
                                Westport
                            , Jackson County, 
                                Missouri
                            ; John M'Coy, January 30, 1839, to his son William McCoy, 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana. These letters are in the keeping of Mrs. W. E. Davis, Piqua, 
                                Ohio
                            . See also Elizabeth Hayward, "Genealogical Notes of Some Indiana
                            Pioneers," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVII (1941), 296.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Stanford
                             MSS.
                  
                     26 Josiah Holt, Elizabethtown (now Elizabeth), 
                                New Jersey
                            . May 1, 1838, to C. A. Converse, 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , Indiana. 
                                Stanford
                             MSS.
                  
                     27Isaac McCoy, 
                                Charlestown
                            , Indiana, August 22, 1838, to Mrs. Isaac McCoy, 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , Indiana. 
                                Stanford
                             MSS.
               
                     letter to his parents gives news of his death on June 12, 1839,
                    at Isaac McCoy's home.28 Since Josiah Holt was bedfast by March, 1839,
                    it is probable that his teaching career in 
                        Clark County
                     was brief, possibly not longer than six or eight months.
            While Holt's life was short and William McCoy's talents later found another outlet
                    than teaching, it is interesting to know that Isaac McCoy and his wife continued to the end of their
                    active lives as educators. Their lives had a singular unity. Both were born in 1809, both died in
                    1882, and both, with singleness of purpose, devoted their lives to teaching.29
                    In the face of hardship and privation, ignorance and prejudice, these early educators helped to
                    blaze the trail which was eventually to lead to the present progressive, state-supported system of
                    education in Indiana.
            School Records30
                
            
               CLARK COUNTY SEMINARY Session 4th Continued Commencing Nov. 7, 1837
               
                  [Parent or Guardian]
                  No. of students
                  Tuition
               
               
                  Ford, Lemuel
                  3
                  —15.25
               
               
                  Foulk, Aaron
                  2
                  14.50
               
               
                  Foresythe, Jas.
                  1
                  3.25
               
               
                  Foresythe, David
                  1
                  2.50
               
               
                  Griffith
                  1
                  8.25
               
               
                  Hammond, Rezin
                  3
                  12.06
               
               
                  Harris, Jonah
                  3
                  14.25
               
               
                  Hartley, H.
                  2
                  9.50
               
               
                  Hay, A. P.
                  2
                  16.50
               
               
                  Hinds, Jesse
                  1
                  4.56
               
               
                  Houston, L. B.
                  3
                  13.46
               
               
                  Huckleberry, William
                  1
                  6.25
               
               
                  Hughs, Mrs.
                  1
                  2.50
               
               
                  James, Beverly W.
                  1
                  3.96
               
            
            
               
                  28 Celenda McCoy, June 16, 1839, (no place given), to her mother and
                        stepfather, Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Holt, Willington, 
                            Connecticut
                        . 
                            Stanford
                         MSS.
               
                  29 Converse, Some of the ancestors and descendants of Samuel
                            Converse, Jr., II, 504.
               
                  30 The ledger pages which give the names of parents, pupils and other
                        particulars are darkened, torn and stained. One corner appears to be scorched. In view of their
                        fragile condition it seems advisable to preserve them by printing their contents here. For the
                        convenience of those who may look for names on these lists the order has been made alphabetical.
                        Genealogists may find it helpful to know how many children of seminary (high school) age there
                        were in a given family in 1837–1838 as shown in the records of the fourth and fifth
                        sessions of the 
                            Clark County
                         Seminary. The register of the seminary gives names of parents; that of the 
                            Jeffersonville
                         school those of pupils.
            
            
            
               
                  Johnson, T.
                  1
                  6.25
               
               
                  King, William F.
                  1
                  5.67
               
               
                  Laws, Robt.
                  3
                  13.82
               
               
                  Martin, Aaron
                  1
                  5.39
               
               
                  MCampbell, Samuel
                  2
                  4.50
               
               
                  McCormic, Thomas31
                  
                  1
                  5.39
               
               
                  McCoy, Lewis32
                  
                  1
                  4.10
               
               
                  McCune, J. L. P.
                  3
                  15.75
               
               
                  Miller, John
                  1
                  6.25
               
               
                  Morrow, William
                  2
                  11.00
               
               
                  Owens, James
                  1
                  7.25
               
               
                  Parker, John
                  2
                  9.50
               
               
                  Perdue, Mrs.
                  1
                  4.10
               
               
                  Price, Mrs.
                  1
                  4.25
               
               
                  Roe, John E.
                  1
                  6.25
               
               
                  Rowland, Mrs.
                  2
                  8.75
               
               
                  Rowland, Jno.
                  2
                  7.78
               
               
                  Russell, J.
                  2
                  10.21
               
               
                  Sharpe, Jas.
                  3
                  18.25
               
               
                  Sprowl, J. W.
                  1
                  5.00
               
               
                  Strutt, Mr.
                  1
                  3.89
               
               
                  Tunstall, Mr.
                  1
                  1.39
               
               
                  Walter, Mr.
                  1
                  4.75
               
               
                  Wilkes, Henry
                  1
                  5.43
               
               
                  Willhoyte, Richard
                  1
                  3.75
               
               
                  Willson, Jas.
                  2
                  9.50
               
               
                  Work, Wm.
                  1
                  7.25
               
               
                  Work, Samuel
                  1
                  7.25
               
            
            
               CLARK CO. SEMINARY Tuition fees of Session 5th Commencing May 7th 1838
               
                  [Parent or Guardian]
                  No. of Students
                  Tuition
               
               
                  Athon, Dr. Jas.
                  1
                  3.25
               
               
                  Barringer, J.33
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Boyer, Jas.
                  1
                  2.50
               
               
                  Boyer, Mrs.
                  2
                  8.75
               
               
                  Canfield, H.
                  1
                  4.82
               
               
                  Carr, John
                  1
                  4.25
               
               
                  Coble, A.
                  2
                  6.71
               
               
                  Cole, C.
                  2
                  8.00
               
               
                  Cole, M.
                  1
                  4.75
               
            
            
               
                  31 Thomas McCormick (1804–1878) had no children of his own who
                        were old enough, in 1837, to attend a seminary. Probably the child whose tuition he paid was his
                        stepson. Basil Bowen Coombs, born August 5, 1824. died September 11, 1857. John Milton McCoy,
                        McCoy Genealogy. This manuscript was compiled prior to 1921.
               
                  32 Lewis McCoy (1806–1874) was a brother of Isaac McCoy.
                        Hay-ward, Family Bible Records, 5. Hester, Descendants of John
                            Lawrence Hester and Godfrey Stough, 52–56.
               
                  33 A line is drawn through this name.
            
            
            
               
                  Collins, Jas.
                  1
                  2.53
               
               
                  Davis, Mrs.
                  1
                  2.50
               
               
                  Demar, Wm.
                  2
                  9.50
               
               
                  Denny, John
                  2
                  6.50
               
               
                  Dewey, Chas.
                  1
                  8.25
               
               
                  Dietz, G. W.
                  3
                  11.03
               
               
                  Downs, Mrs.
                  1
                  2.25
               
               
                  Duitt, Mrs.
                  1
                  4.75
               
               
                  Ellis, R.
                  1
                  3.25
               
               
                  Ferguson, B.
                  1
                  8.25
               
               
                  Ford, L.
                  2
                  7.25
               
               
                  Garner, Mrs.
                  4
                  11.00
               
               
                  Hammond, R.
                  2
                  9.50
               
               
                  Hartman, C.
                  1
                  4.75
               
               
                  Hess, Mrs.
                  2
                  950
               
               
                  Houston, L. B.
                  3
                  12.25
               
               
                  Howk, Mrs.
                  1
                  8.00
               
               
                  Laws, R.
                  1
                  3.89
               
               
                  Long, E.
                  1
                  4.75
               
               
                  Long, J. W.
                  1
                  1.25
               
               
                  MCune, J. L. P.
                  3
                  14.25
               
               
                  Parker, John
                  2
                  8.50
               
               
                  Parker, Wm.
                  1
                  6.25
               
               
                  Pearcy, A. J.
                  1
                  6.25
               
               
                  Perdue, Mrs.
                  1
                  5.10
               
               
                  Piersol, John
                  1
                  2.25
               
               
                  Price, Mrs.
                  3
                  6.75
               
               
                  Randall, Dr. J.
                  2
                  8.50
               
               
                  St. Clair, Mr.
                  2
                  5.00
               
               
                  Sharpe, James
                  3
                  7.50
               
               
                  Sprowl, Wm.
                  1
                  7.00
               
               
                  Suttle, T.
                  2
                  4.25
               
               
                  Walter, A.
                  2
                  5.50
               
               
                  Warfield, Dr. B. H.
                  1
                  3.25
               
               
                  Wilhoyte, R.
                  1
                  5.25
               
               
                  Wilson, James
                  2
                  9.50
               
               
                  Wise, Frederic
                  1
                  8.25
               
               
                  Work, Samuel
                  1
                  2.25
               
            
            
               CLARK CO. SEMINARY Tuition Fees of Session 6th34 Commencing Nov. 5th, 1838
               
                  [Parent or Guardian]
                  Tuition
               
               
                  Abbott, J. C.
                  5.10
               
            
            
               
                        
                     34 The number of students is not given for this session.
                        The parents of Sarah Ann 
                                Osgood
                            , who is known to have attended the Seminary during this time, are not listed as
                            paying tuition. Probably as the protegee of the McCoys she did not pay anything. Her
                            enrollment, too, was for only a brief period. Mrs. McCoy wrote of her, "Among the
                            some hundreds of youths and children whom it was my privilege to instruct I think that none
                            were more successful in their advancement…. In August 1838 while on a visit to my
                            friends
                    
            
            
            
               
                  Alpha, M.
                  1.10
               
               
                  Athon, Dr. Jas.
                  6.25
               
               
                  Barringer, John
                  5.00
               
               
                  Canfield, H.
                  7.25
               
               
                  Clark, Mr.
                  1.67
               
               
                  Collins, Jas.
                  5.11
               
               
                  Denny, Jno.
                  5.96
               
               
                  Dewey, Chas.
                  13.00
               
               
                  Dietz, G. W.
                  10.00
               
               
                  Duitt, Mrs.
                  4.53
               
               
                  Durham, S. W.
                  5.58
               
               
                  Ferguson, B.
                  18.11
               
               
                  Fleshman, Mr.
                  1.53
               
               
                  Foresythe, D.
                  3.25
               
               
                  Hammon, R.
                  1.67
               
               
                  Harper, J.
                  5.68
               
               
                  Hartman, C.
                  9.50
               
               
                  Hess, Mrs.
                  2.53
               
               
                  Hinds, J.
                  3.39
               
               
                  Houston, L. B.
                  4.75
               
               
                  Huckleberry, Wm.
                  6.34
               
               
                  Kirkpatrick, W.
                  5.67
               
               
                  Laughery, Mrs.
                  2.50
               
               
                  Laws, H.
                  3.85
               
               
                  Laws, R.
                  3.85
               
               
                  Parker, Wm.
                  6.25
               
               
                  Pearcy, A. J.
                  6.34
               
               
                  Price, Mrs.
                  6.45
               
               
                  Randall, Dr. J.
                  8.00
               
               
                  Rowland, Mrs.
                  1.75
               
               
                  Sellers, M. W.
                  5.91
               
               
                  Stuart, Al.
                  1.00
               
               
                  Sutton, (remitted)
                  .75
               
               
                  Walter, A.
                  4.75
               
               
                  Whitmarsh, Dr.
                  6.58
               
               
                  Wybrant, Mr.
                  4.75
               
            
            
               in 
                            Lawrenceburg
                         I invited her to return with me to 
                            Charlestown
                        , which she did, and became a member of my family and attended the Clark Co.
                        Seminary of which Mr. McCoy was then Principal. But in a few weeks she was again called from the
                        pursuit of science to the business of imparting instruction. In a neighborhood West of
                        Charles-town a school was much needed, and though it was her wish to pursue her studies for a
                        while longer, yet aiming to be useful rather than to gratify herself… she undertook
                        the school at the earnest solicitation of a friend in that place, Lydia McCormic."
                        Celenda C. McCoy, Biography of Sarah Ann 
                            Osgood
                         [1819–1852], fragmentary, 
                            Stanford
                         MSS. Sarah Ann 
                                Osgood
                             became a close friend of Isaac McCoy's sister, Eliza McCoy, and like
                            her, became a missionary to the Indians. Calvin McCormick, The Memoir of Miss
                                Eliza McCoy (Dallas, 1892), 38, 43–44, 75–77.
               
            
            
            
               JEFFERSONVILLE PRIMARY & CLASSICAL SCHOOL 1841, Sept. 20. Commenced 1st
                        quarter—Isaac M'Coy—Teacher
               
                  
                  Students' Names
                  Tuition
               
               
                  1.
                  Richard Buck
                  .75
               
               
                  2.
                  Brice Curran
                  2.00
               
               
                  3.
                  William Curran
                  5.00
               
               
                  4.
                  Amanda Hall
                  3.00
               
               
                  5.
                  James A. Holt
                  4.00
               
               
                  6.
                  Henry C. Rease
                  2.50
               
               
                  7.
                  Georgia Ann Reed
                  1.00
               
               
                  8.
                  John Ryan
                  .75
               
               
                  9.
                  Cornelius B. Ruddle
                  2.33 1/3
               
               
                  10.
                  Elizabeth S. Ruddle
                  2.16 2/3
               
               
                  11.
                  Stephen R. Ruddle
                  2.33 1/3
               
               
                  12.
                  Christiana P. Shryer
                  2.50
               
               
                  13.
                  Mary A. Waggener
                  3.00
               
               
                  14.
                  Susan E. Waggener
                  3.00
               
               
                  15.
                  Wm. Weathers
                  .43 3/4 
               
               
                  
                  
                  ———
               
               
                  
                  
                  34.77
               
            
            
               1841, Dec. 13th. Commences 2nd quarter—Isaac M'Coy—Teacher
               
                  
                  Students' Names
                  Tuition
               
               
                  1.
                  Richard Buck
                  2.50
               
               
                  2.
                  Robt. Chalfant
                  1.50
               
               
                  3.
                  Ruth E. Chalfant
                  1.50
               
               
                  4.
                  William Curran
                  6.00
               
               
                  5.
                  Margaret Fite
                  2.50
               
               
                  6.
                  Rebecca J. D. Hall, & Amanda
                  6.75
               
               
                  7.
                  William Hardman
                  3.00
               
               
                  8.
                  Enoch Howard
                  2.50
               
               
                  9.
                  William Howard
                  1.00
               
               
                  10.
                  James A. Holt
                  5.00
               
               
                  11.
                  Susan Jackson
                  2.50
               
               
                  12.
                  Thirza J. McCormick35
                  
                  1.00
               
               
                  13.
                  Rice F. McGrew
                  4.00
               
               
                  14.
                  Jno. Warren Miller
                  2.00
               
               
                  15.
                  Georgia Ann Read
                  1.00
               
               
                  16.
                  Cornelius B. Ruddell
                  2.33
               
               
                  17.
                  Sarah E. Ruddell
                  1.75
               
               
                  18.
                  Stephen R. Ruddell
                  2.33
               
               
                  19.
                  John Ryan
                  2.50
               
               
                  20.
                  M. D. L. Tomlin
                  2.25
               
               
                  21.
                  William Vanpelt
                  1.00
               
               
                  22.
                  Henry Waggener
                  4.00
               
               
                  23.
                  James Wathen
                  2.00
               
               
                  24.
                  William Weathers
                  2.50
               
            
            
               
                  35 Thirza Jane McCormick (1831–1924) was the daughter of John
                        and Thirza (McCoy) McCormick. She married Frank Adams Christian of Grand View, 
                            Illinois
                        , in 1854. Mrs. I. D. Hesler (granddaughter), Hillsboro, 
                            Illinois
                        , August 8, 1939, to Mrs. Sumner Hayward, Ridgewood, 
                            New Jersey
                        .
            
            
            
               
                  25.
                  A. J. Wolverton
                  2.50
               
               
                  26.
                  Matthew Wright
                  1.00 
               
               
                  
                  
                   ——— 
               
               
                  
                  
                  66.91
               
            
            
               1842, Mar. 21st Commenced 3rd quarter—Isaac M'Coy—Teacher
               
                  1.
                  Aaron Applegate
                  1.75
               
               
                  2.
                  Nelson Applegate
                  1.75
               
               
                  3.
                  Isabella Brown
                  1.00
               
               
                  4.
                  Susan Brown
                  1.00
               
               
                  5.
                  Richard Buck
                  1.50
               
               
                  6.
                  Ruth E. Chalfant
                  1.50
               
               
                  7.
                  V. D. Collins
                  3.33 1/3
               
               
                  8.
                  Matilda A. Ferguson
                  2.50
               
               
                  9.
                  Nancy A. Ferguson
                  2.75
               
               
                  10.
                  Rebecca J. D. Hall
                  5.00
               
               
                  11.
                  Hester Ann Hart
                  2.50
               
               
                  12.
                  Enoch Howard
                  1.75
               
               
                  13.
                  William Howard
                  1.75
               
               
                  14.
                  Amelia Leach
                  .50
               
               
                  15.
                  John Leach
                  1.00
               
               
                  16.
                  Gates M'Garah
                  .37 1/2
               
               
                  17.
                  Feilding [sic] R. M'Grew
                  .75
               
               
                  18.
                  James Mayberry
                  .37 1/2
               
               
                  19.
                  Warren Miller
                  2.87 1/2
               
               
                  20.
                  Georgia A. Read
                  2.00
               
               
                  21.
                  John Ryan
                  2.50
               
               
                  22.
                  Christiana P. Shryer
                  .50
               
               
                  23.
                  William S. Tomlin
                  4.00
               
               
                  24.
                  Lafayette M. Tomlin
                  3.00
               
               
                  25.
                  Elbert Vanpelt
                  2.25
               
               
                  26.
                  Andrew J. Wathen
                  6.00
               
               
                  27.
                  George W. Wathen
                  6.00
               
               
                  28.
                  James Wathen
                  3.00
               
               
                  29.
                  William Weathers
                  2.66 2/3
               
               
                  30.
                  Matthew Wright
                   .75 
               
               
                  
                  
                  ———
               
               
                  
                  
                  66.62 1/2
               
            
            
               1842. June 27th Commences 4th term—Isaac M'Coy—Teacher
               
                  1.
                  Aaron Applegate
                  1.00
               
               
                  2.
                  Nelson Applegate
                  1.00
               
               
                  3.
                  Isabella Brown
                  1.00
               
               
                  4.
                  Susan Brown
                  1.00
               
               
                  5.
                  Richard Buck
                  1.50
               
               
                  6.
                  Ruth E. Chalfant
                  1.50
               
               
                  7.
                  Lloyd Gates
                  .87 1/2
               
               
                  8.
                  John Gill
                  .18 3/4
               
               
                  9.
                  Amelia Leach
                  1.50
               
               
                  10.
                  John Leach
                  1.50
               
               
                  11.
                  James Mabury
                  1.12 1/2
               
               
                  12.
                  Gates M'Garah
                  2.00
               
               
               
                  13.
                  F. R. M'Grew
                  1.87 1/2
               
               
                  14.
                  
                     
                                Warren
                             Miller
                  1.25
               
               
                  15.
                  Isaiah Prather
                  .75
               
               
                  16.
                  John Ryan
                  1.87 1/2
               
               
                  17.
                  C. P. Shryer
                  1.87 1/2
               
               
                  18.
                  Lafayette Tomlin
                  .75
               
               
                  19.
                  James Underwood
                  .50
               
               
                  20.
                  William Vanpelt
                  .25
               
               
                  21.
                  James Wathen
                   1.75 
               
               
                  
                  
                  ———
               
               
                  
                  
                   $ 25.06 1/4 
               
               
                  Amount of previous
                  …
                   168.30 1/2 
               
               
                  
                  
                  ———
               
               
                  Do. of 4 terms
                  …
                  $ 193.368 3/4
               
               
                  Two dollars to be deducted from Mr. Fite's bill
                  
                   2.00 
               
               
                  
                  
                  ———
               
               
                  
                  
                  —191.36 3/4
               
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
