
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 17, Issue 1, pages 3-114. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:17+issue:1+year:1921&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Life and Times of John Shrader
            INCLUDING THE INTRODUCTION AND PROGRESS OF METHODISM IN SOUTHWESTERN INDIANA1
            
            BY JOHN E. IGLEHART
            
            THE COMING OF JOHN SHRADER
            One hundred years ago John Shrader, the regular appointed circuit rider of the Methodist Episcopal
                    church traveling in southwestern Indiana, brought together on Saturday, December 12, 1819, at Hugh
                    McGary's double log warehouse in 
                        Evansville
                    , where Shrader preached, three educated regularly ordained ministers, local preachers,
                    Richard and Joseph Wheeler, brothers, then living in Blue Grass, North 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , in the British settlement, and Robert Parrett, living on a clearing in the wilderness
                    on the western border of the settlement near where Blairsville is now located in 
                        Posey county
                    . The occasion was an unusual one for the time and locality, which accounts for its
                    mention in local history.2
            
            Organized Methodist forces, adjusted to the life and necessities of the widely scattered pioneers in
                    the wilderness, had before this date established a preaching place at McGary's ferry, and
                    the church records show the names of preachers assigned to this territory from 1809 continuously
                        
                  
                     1 An address delivered Sunday, December 13, 1919, at the Coliseum in 
                                Evansville
                             at the centennial celebration of the occasion mentioned in it. The address is
                            printed as delivered, with additions of fuller statements of historical nature.
                  
                     2
                            History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                
                      (B. & F.) 278. 
               
                     afterward,3 and local history records the
                    fact that 
                        Evansville
                     before this meeting had been assessed at 56¼ cents per quarter of three
                    months for the support of the gospel.4
            
            Trifling as the sum mentioned now seems to us, it represented $2.25 cents per year, or
                    about one thirtieth of the salary of the circuit rider, $60.00 per year, which was,
                    before 
                        Evansville
                     became a hamlet and the county seat, its proper proportion.
            As early as 1814 on the formation of 
                  Warrick county,
                            Evansville
                was named and existed in the
                    brain of Hugh McGary, its proprietor, as a prospective town site.
            It had already been, for three months, under that name, the county seat of 
                        Warrick county
                    , but was changed by the legislature and remained for three years little more than Hugh
                    McGary's residence and store and ferry over the Ohio river, as well as
                    a ferry over Pigeon creek, half a mile west, to 
                        Posey county
                    , the eastern boundary of which reached in 1815 to Pigeon creek. Hugh McGary, while not
                    a church man, was a promoter and town builder and anxious to give his prospective town prominence of
                    every character, and I have no doubt that his house or store had been a preaching point for the
                    circuit rider during all of this time, though there exists no other record in any published history
                    of any religious meetings held in 
                        Evansville
                     earlier than the one we celebrate today.
            The Wheelers and Parrett were local Wesleyan preachers, who had only just arrived in the English
                    settlement, and Shrader wisely saw the opportunity to begin a work which now7 at
                    the end of the century has produced great results. They were educated men, men of force, ability and
                    prominence, and the Wheelers had sat under the teachings of Adam Clark in 
                        England
                    .5
            
            
               For a full description of the English Settlement which at this date, or soon afterwards,
                        represented about one-half of the leading citizens of 
                            Vanderburgh county
                        , see "The Coming of the English to Indiana in 1817 and their Hoosier
                        Neighbors", Indiana Magazine of History, v. 15, p. 89.
               
                  3 Elliott, History 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , pp. 238–9.
               
                  4
                        History 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            
                   (B. & F.) 278.
               
                  5 Holliday, History of Methodism in Indiana, p. 90.
                        Doctor Holliday knew Joseph Wheeler intimately as also Robert Parrett, who was the leading
                        member of Locust Street Church when the former was pastor in 1844.
            
            
            Joseph Wheeler's wife, when a small child, had recited a long psalm while sitting on John
                    Wesley's knee in her father's house in Witney, and the head of at least one other
                    family in the settlement had known Wesley in his work in 
                        Ireland
                    .6
            
            The occasion which we celebrate today was a week day meeting, but under the conditions of pioneer
                    life, week day meetings were essential to religious worship, and all ordinary business was suspended
                    when they were held.
            Shrader first introduced Methodism into 
                  New Albany,
                            Jeffersonville
                and 
                        New Lebanon
                    , in 1818. Isaac Reed, the Presbyterian missionary, one of the most authentic historians
                    of early southern Indiana, was stationed as pastor of a church in 
                        New Albany
                     in the fall of 1818, and records that the Methodists already had a meeting-house. This
                    building immediately followed John Shrader's visit there earlier in that year. At the first
                    Methodist meeting held in McGary's warehouse, it was arranged that Robert Parrett and the
                    two Wheeler brothers should conduct religious services regularly at that place, each of them once
                    every six weeks, and the appointments were so arranged that there was divine service at that
                    warehouse every other Sunday, besides an occasional extra sermon by the circuit rider.7
            
            Thus matters continued until the spring of 1821, when the few Methodists in 
                        Evansville
                     obtained permission from Dr. John W. Shaw to use the front room of his new residence,
                    then in process of erection, as a place of worship. The building was weather boarded and lathed, but
                    not plastered. This house stood on the present site of the Chandler block on First street between
                    Locust and Walnut. The Shaw residence continued to be occupied by the Methodists as their place of
                    worship until the early part of 1824, when the congregation obtained use of a large room adjoining
                    the Warner tavern, where the meetings were continued for the next three years.8
            
            It occupied the space on First street next to the southwest corner of First and Locust streets, and
                    was called the "den", for here the fast young men of the village congregated 
                  
                     6
                            Indiana Magazine of History, v. 15, p. 159.
                  
                     7
                            History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                . 27S.
                  
                            8
                            Idem.
                        
               
                     to play cards and drink, but the tavern-keeper, when it was time
                    for the preacher to come around, had it vacated, swept and cleaned.
            In 1825, Robert Parrett moved from 
                        Posey county
                     to 
                        Evansville
                    , bought 160 acres of land on the southern boundary of the town, which is now solidly
                    built up as a part of the city, and in that year, at his house, established a church class.
            Some local historians–most of them state the facts as I have stated them, none controvert
                    them,–treat the establishment of a "class" in 1825 as the first
                    introduction of Methodism in 
                        Evansville
                    , and upon that idea alone have stated that the introduction of Presbyterianism was
                    earlier here, though admittedly later than December, 1819. But this claim results from want of
                    proper understanding of the machinery of the Methodist church as established by Wesley, the same in
                    1819, and substantially the same now, and in its adjustment to the backwoodsmen. "The
                    Circuit Rider, the local preacher or class leader, the classes, the love-feast or a general
                    meeting–these were enough in way of religious machinery."9
            
            At the meeting we celebrate today were present the circuit rider, three local preachers, at a general
                    public meeting, though on weekday, and a permanent organization, publicly announced that four
                    Methodist ministers would by turns furnish Sunday preaching alternately every other Sunday from that
                    time, and they did. This work was done under the direction of a circuit rider, fully authorized,
                    traveling a circuit previously established, embracing 
                        Evansville
                     as a preaching point some time earlier. The date of the first establishment is not
                    recorded by local historians, but they record the facts as I state them.10
            
            The itinerant system of Methodism in full practical operation, in its introduction in the Wilderness,
                    furnished a primitive, unique and unsurpassed system, independent of the class-meeting, whereby the
                    circuit rider made the acquaintance of every man, woman and child in the county and broke 
                  
                     9 Hubbard, Life of Wesley, 37.
                  
                     10
                            History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                , 27S; Gilbert, History of 
                                    Vanderburgh
                                 Cotmty, Volume 1, page 310.
               
                     bread at the tables of the great majority of the hospitable
                        householders.11
            
            It must be evident that a "class" composed only of church members was not the sine qua non to church organization or to the introduction of Methodism, either in
                    church machinery or in the far greater part of itinerant work in the wilderness, and that the
                    Methodist claim of priority under the facts shown in local history is established.
            
               LOCUST ST. M. E. CHURCH 1839. THE FIRST M. E. CHURCH BUILDING BUILT IN EVANSVILLE.
            
            The record of the times is scant, but Joseph Tarkington records a visit to 
                        Evansville
                     in 1824 of which he says, "The quarterly meeting was held upstairs in a
                    dilapidated frame house." This proves that Evansville Methodism, though weak, had in 1824,
                    a year before Parrett moved to 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , and established a "class", the quarterly meeting which implied
                    regular church organization in full operation and the probabilities are that the missionary spirit
                    of these founders had this institution of Methodism in operation at the time of the organization of
                    the public Sunday services in 1819.12
            
            
               
                  11 Milburn, the blind preacher, Ten Years of
                            Preacher's Life, 81. See also Note 92, letter of W. H. Harrison, describing
                        the work of the circuit rider in territorial days and later.
               
                  12 Tarkington's Autobiography, 99.
            
            
            In those days there was no need for church corporations, or church treasurers, and the first church
                    corporation in 
                        Evansville
                    , organized in 1822, had no regular preacher for many years later. 
                        Evansville
                     for many years depended very largely upon Joseph Wheeler and Robert Parrett for regular
                    preaching of an educated ministry with an occasional visit of the circuit rider.
            After the Presbyterian church was built in 1831 these local preachers for a considerable period
                    furnished regular preaching in that church, where all denominations met together in the absence of
                    any regular stationed minister.13
            
            Richard Wheeler remained only a short time in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , removing to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where he reared a family, and some of his descendants now live there. Joseph Wheeler
                    remained in the country upon a farm until the forties, when he moved to 
                        Evansville
                    . While he never joined the travelling ministry, he felt a call for continuous work as a
                    preacher and was probably more active as an exhorter and local preacher than any of the local
                    preachers of this section, excepting John Shrader and Moses Ashworth. For many years he was the
                    regular preacher at the Stringtown Union church, and there are persons now living who speak with
                    reverence and affection of his services to that community.14
            
            Robert Parrett has always been known as the father of Methodism in 
                        Evansville
                    . Largely through his influence Locust Street church was built and dedicated in April,
                    1839. Upon his farm was burned the brick with which the building was constructed. Without his aid it
                    could not have been built at that time as it was. Local history has done ample justice to both
                    Joseph Wheeler and Robert Parrett, both of whom left a number of descendants of prominent families
                    in this community.
            The first authentic record of the introduction of Methodism into southwestern Indiana begins in 1808
                    with Peter Cartwright, who was called to old 
                        Knox county
                     by some of 
                  
                     13 Reilly, History of Walnut Street Presbyterian Church,
                            
                                Evansville
                            , 18–19.
                  
                     14 Mrs. Phebe Whittlesey Hamlin, now of 
                                California
                            , knew and heard preach all of these ministers. As a child she was an attendant
                            at the Stringtown church in the forties under Joseph Wheeler's pastorate. Of
                            Shrader and Joseph Wheeler, whom she knew best and intimately for many years, she writes:
                            "They were the best two men I ever knew in every respect."
               
                     his former 
                        Kentucky
                     friends, who had emigrated to Indiana territory, as a great controversial debater to
                    stem the tide of a disreputable sect known as Shakers, who, in the absence of any organized
                    opposition, were making headway at their settlement at Bushro [Busseron], some eight or ten miles
                    north of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and Cartwright's achievement in succeeding in the object of his visit is one
                    of the interesting incidents recorded in his biography.15
            
            While at 
                        Vincennes
                    , Cartwright established preaching points on a circuit in 1808 included within the
                        Green River district of the Western Conference, and the
                    presiding elder of the Green River District temporarily supplied this circuit
                    in 1809 and in 1810 Wm. Winans, and in 1811 Thomas Stilwell were appointed to it–regular
                    circuit preachers. The circuit was called St. Vincennes circuit, and from that day to this the
                    organized itinerant system of Methodism has been in operation in this section, with always a
                    regularly appointed minister, ready and willing to hold public services and establish the various
                    forms of organization adapted to the conditions of the people, whether in the tavern, the courthouse
                    or the log-cabin, for there were up to 1830 no churches in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    .16
            
            In 1812 Peter Cartwright Was appointed by Bishop As-bury at the 
                        Tennessee
                     Conference (the Western Conference was now divided into the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    ), the presiding elder of the 
                        Wabash
                     District, which included circuits north of the river, 
                        Vincennes
                     in Indiana, and the little 
                        Wabash
                     and Fort Massack in 
                        Illinois
                    . Five of the circuits in this district were in the state of 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 1816 the 
                        Missouri
                     conference was organized, and it was transferred from the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference, 
                  Arkansas, Illinois
                and the western part of Indiana.
                    Shrader after that date was a member of the 
                        Missouri
                     conference. John Shrader was well born, and his life showed an absence of the rude and
                    coarser traits which several generations of life in the wilderness tended to produce among the
                    pioneer backwoodsmen. This enhanced his 
                  
                     15 Autobiography of Peter Cartwright (Strickland), 53.
                  
                     16 In addition to church conference records, local history gives the
                            names and date of service of circuit riders conducting organized church services here from
                            1811. History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                , 277–279; Elliott, History (
                                Evansville
                            ); Vanderburg County, 283–239.
               
                     reputation and popularity among the latter. In his long journey
                    he regularly carried books with him. His father, John Jacob Von Shraeder was born in 
                        Germany
                    , educated at 
                        Heidelberg
                    , travelled in 
                        France
                     after the custom of ambitious young men of his time, and on November 16, 1784, came to
                    America to avoid service in the 
                        German
                     army. In 
                        New York
                     he dropped the Von from his name, and substituted "a" for
                    "ae". He was attracted to a Methodist class meeting while in 
                        New York
                    , was converted, joined that church, and soon afterwards moved to 
                        Baltimore
                    , where he married Miss Wolf, and here, of this marriage, John Shrader was born in 1792.
                    The elder Shrader was a musician of local celebrity and composed numerous songs.
            John Shrader emigrated with his parents to 
                  Knoxville,
                            Tennessee
               , in 1795. He was converted and
                    joined the church in 1810. He was licensed to exhort in 1811 and to preach in 1812; admitted into
                    the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference in 1814. He was ordained deacon by Bishop Asbury at 
                  Lebanon, Tennessee
               ,
                    in 1814, and ordained elder by Bishop Roberts in 1818 at Olwells camp ground below Alton, 
                        Illinois
                    . In 1814 he served on the Green River circuit in 
                        Kentucky
                     under Peter Cartwright as presiding elder, with ten appointments four hundred miles
                    around. In 1815 he was sent to 
                        Vincennes
                     circuit, then in the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference which had twenty appointments and was three hundred miles around. At this
                    time local history names him first among preachers who held service at 
                        Newburg
                    , Indiana.17
            
            In 1816 he was sent to St. Charles circuit in the 
                        Missouri
                     conference, in which conference southwestern Indiana was then embraced, which had
                    twenty-two appointments, and was three hundred and fifty miles in circumference. In 1817 he was
                    again on the 
                        Vincennes
                     circuit now five hundred and fifty miles around it, with King and Davis as colleagues.
                    In 1818 he was sent to Blue River circuit, when his headquarters were at
                    Corydon upon a change in the boundaries of the circuit. In 1819 he was sent to White
                    River circuit, 
                        Arkansas
                     territory, which had ten appointments and was 
                  
                     17
                            History of 
                                    Warrick County
                                
                      (1885), 124. Elijah Goodwin refers to church literature which Shrader
                            gave him at this time which influenced his life. Life of Elijah Goodwin,
                            by H. M. Mathes, 21.
               
                     four hundred miles in circumference. In the hardships of this
                    life he almost lost his life, at times sleeping in the woods during illness, and in the winter of
                    that year he is found at work in the Patoka or Pigeon circuit in Indiana, the exact boundaries of
                    which are not easy now to distinguish. In 1820 he was again sent to the Corydon circuit, Indiana.
            In Dr. F. C. Holliday's sketch of the life and times of Allen Wiley, published in 1853, are
                    found extracts from a letter from John Shrader, which show the first introduction of Methodism into
                    territory west of the Mississippi river.
            As an illustration of the labors, privations, and hardships of the early pioneers of Methodism in the
                    west the following is given, furnished by Rev. John Shrader, an early associate of Wiley in the
                    ministry, and who is yet living. He says:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "In the spring of 1818, I was removed to Silver Creek Circuit on the 
                                        Ohio
                                    , embracing the country from the mouth of Blue
                                    river up to 
                                        Madison
                                    . Rev. J. Cord had been appointed to this circuit by the bishop; but his
                                    house being consumed by fire, he was compelled to quit traveling for a season, and
                                    return to his friends, I came to Cord's appointment at Gazaway's,
                                    and found him preaching from ‘The Lord is my Shepherd; I shall not
                                    want.’ It was a good sermon, preached by a good man. After service I told
                                    him that I had come to take his place. He appeared glad to be released, and hastened
                                    home. I now entered on my work with much fear and trembling. Revivals had commenced
                                    at different points on the circuit under Cord's preaching, and on me rested
                                    the responsibility of carrying on this great work, which extended nearly all over
                                    the circuit; and during the year nearly six hundred were taken into the church on
                                    trial. I took into the circuit, as new preaching-places, 
                                        New Lexington
                                    , Jeffer-sonville, and 
                                        New Albany
                                    . Some seven or eight members of the church had formed themselves into a
                                    class at 
                                        New Albany
                                    , and called on me to preach for them, which I did in a tavern occupied
                                    by a Mrs. Ruff. In this tavern I administered the sacrament of the Lord's
                                    supper for the first time, I suppose, that it was ever administered in 
                                        New Albany
                                    .
                        At the close of this year, by the direction of the presiding elder, I went to 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     to meet Bishop M'Kendree, and conduct him to the seat of the 
                                        Missouri
                                     conference, which was to be held at Bethel meeting-house, near the
                                    present town of 
                                        Washington
                                    , the county seat of 
                                        Daviess county
                                    , Indiana. I was taken sick the first day of the conference, but was
                                    well taken care of at the house of William Hawkins. My appointment for the ensuing
                                    year was Spring River circuit, 
                                        Arkansas
                                     territory. It was some time before I sufficiently recovered from my
                                    sickness to enable me to ride. But while yet feeble I started for my field of labor,
                                    which required a journey of five hundred miles.  My circuit embraced a large extent of territory; it was
                                    mountainous and rocky; the settlements were very scattering, and it was far between
                                    the appointments. The inhabitants were mostly hunters, and lived on the game they
                                    caught. They generally brought their dogs and guns to meeting with them. The dogs
                                    very often differed with each other; and a quarrel ensued, and this ended in a
                                    general dog fight. This always produced a stir in the congregation, and consumed
                                    some time before peace could be restored and ratified. The preacher would be
                                    interrupted in his sermon, or perhaps forget his text, and have to finish with an
                                    exhortation.
                        At other times the hunters would return home during divine service, with venison,
                                    bear meat and dogs. But we were not easily disturbed in those days. We had plenty of
                                    venison, bear-meat, and turkeys to eat; but our bread was corn, and coarse at that.
                                    In many places we had no way of grinding our grain, except on what was called
                                    Armstrong's mill. This was generally a long cedar pole, with one end made
                                    fast on the ground, and supported in the middle by two forks, with a pestle fastened
                                    to the small end. Under it we placed a mortar, and thus we prepared our breadstuff,
                                    and this we frequently baked without sifting; and perhaps this is the reason why we
                                    did not have the dyspepsia. In some parts of the circuit, however, we fared well for
                                    the times, found warm friends, and, at two or three appointments, had good revivals
                                    of religion. At the close of the year I traveled as far west as the
                                        Arkansas river, and attended a camp meeting on its bank. We
                                    had a good meeting, at the close of which I started for conference, which sat at
                                    M'Kendree chapel, near 
                              Cape
                                        Girardeau, Missouri
                           .
                        My next appointment was Corydon, Indiana. I was much pleased with this appointment,
                                    and felt myself at home among my old friends.
                     
                  
               
                
            In 1816 the 
                        Missouri
                     conference was organized, and held its first session at Turkey
                    Hill settlement, in 
                        Illinois
                    . The following is Father Shrader's account of the organization of the
                    conference, and of his first appointment from the conference: 
                        Bishop M'Kendree and myself started from 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , for 
                                Vincennes
                            , from whence Walker, Scripps, and others, were to travel with us through the
                            wilderness to the 
                                Missouri
                             conference. After camping in the wilderness three nights, we arrived at the
                            seat of the conference. When the conference was organized we found that we had seven members
                            present, and some few were admitted on trial. These are now all dead, except J. Scripps and
                            myself. The conference extended over four different states. Most of the members of
                            conference were young men. We had received very little quarterage from our circuits, and
                            consequently were in tolerably straightened circumstances. Bishop M'Kendree gave
                            the conference one hundred dollars,  and this, added to
                            our share of the funds, made us a pretty fair dividend. From this conference we scattered
                            over this immense territory. My appointment was to 
                                Missouri
                             circuit, embracing the settlements between the Missouri
                            and Mississippi rivers. I commenced preaching in St. Charles in a
                            tavern. Some of the bacchanalians would leave their worship and listen to me awhile, and
                            sometimes they would swear that I was preaching the best sermon that they ever heard. We had
                            a good revival on the 
                                Missouri
                            , above St. Charles. In the fall of this year the presiding elder and myself
                            traveled up the 
                                Missouri
                             as far as 
                                Boone
                            's Lick, and held a camp meeting–the first ever held in that
                            part of the world. Having to lodge in the woods six nights, going and returning, I was taken
                            very sick, and had like to have died in the wilderness.18
                  
                    
                
            Allen Wiley gives the following account of John Shrader in the conference year of 1819 and 1820:19
                    
                        John Shrader was the preacher in charge of the Indian Creek circuit, and he had for his
                            colleague, John Everheart, who had once been a member of the 
                                Baltimore
                             conference and had located.
                        Shrader was zealous and successful; and Everheart was sometimes up and sometimes down, and
                            consequently not calculated to do much good. How large a scope of country about Corydon was
                            embraced in this circuit I do not know. All my information concerning this circuit is
                            obtained from the minutes. From this source of information I learn there was a pretty good
                            increase on the circuit, for it advanced from four hundred and eighty-six to six hundred and
                            thirty-seven, being an addition of one hundred and fifty-one, which was doing pretty well in
                            a country that could not have been densely populated twenty-six years ago.
                    
                
            Allen Wiley again describes John Shrader:20
                    
                        The name of Indian Creek circuit was superseded this year by that of Corydon, which remains
                            to this day; but the circuit is much curtailed, for there have been detached from it, 
                                New Albany
                            , now containing two stations, Greenville, Elizabeth and 
                                Fredericksburg
                             circuits. John Shrader, who was the preacher, was quite a popular and
                            successful preacher. He had been admitted on trial by the 
                                Tennessee
                             conference in the fall of 1813, and continued faithful in the work until the
                            fall of 1821, when he located and settled in the lower part of Indiana, commonly called the
                            Pocket, from its shape between the Ohio and Wabash
                            rivers. He still lives there and is yet a very popular and useful preacher. The
                            only time I ever saw him was in the 
                        
                           18 Holliday, Indiana Methodism, 4S.
                        
                           19 Article No. 21, Introduction of Methodism into southeastern
                                    Indiana. Western Christian Advocate, June 5, 1846.
                        
                           20
                                    Western Christian Advocate, June 19, 1846.
                     
                             summer of 1818, when he went to 
                                Cincinnati
                             to pilot Bishop M'Kendree to the 
                                Missouri
                             conference, which met at Mt. Zion meeting-house, at or
                            near the forks of White river in Indiana. His circuit had some
                            prosperity this year (1820–21); for the minutes report 75 of an increase.
                    
                
            John Shrader had all of the modesty and simplicity of a cultured mind. His daughter, Mrs. W. H. Grim
                    of 
                        Sullivan
                    , Indiana, now in her 85th year, says it was very difficult to get him to talk about
                    himself. The incidents of his life are gathered from outside sources. The records of the conferences
                    in which he worked as a travelling minister show successful revivals and increase wherever he went.
                    The historians of early Methodism in Indiana rely upon his statements written at their request for
                    the earliest authentic historical statements of the work in which he was engaged.
            That he was a man of ability and culture for the time, and regarded as fit to lead in the work of the
                    introduction of Methodism into the territory and state of Indiana, is evidenced by the fact that he
                    was twice sent to Corydon, which was the capital of Indiana territory and state.
            In 1821 at 
                        Poseyville
                     he married Pamelia Jaquess, one of the daughters of a pioneer. He then settled there
                    and located. Location was a necessary result of the marriage of a preacher in those days, although
                    his daughter says his health broke down and compelled him to locate, and other testimony
                    corroborates that statement.
            His daughter says he was active in preaching and church work always, though a local preacher. She
                    does not remember the time when he did not at the end of the week travel from home to preach
                    somewhere.
            Dr. Holliday, author of the leading history of Indiana Methodism, was the stationed minister in
                    Locust Street church in 1844, and previously knew well Ashworth, Shrader, Wheeler and Parrett, and
                    classes Shrader, Ashworth and Wheeler as exhorters and local preachers of great power.21
            
            After he was over sixty-five years old, and his children 
                  
                     21 Holliday, Methodism, S8–90. Mrs.
                            Robert Parrett told Mrs. Grim, Father Shrader's youngest child, the incident of
                            Father Shrader preaching at Locust Street church once, when a local preacher, when so few
                            men were present–the congregation was composed chiefly of women–that
                            she told him she feared there would not be enough men in Heaven to sing bass.
               
                     were grown, Shrader again entered the travelling ministry in the
                    Indiana conference, and was stationed two years on the Blue Grass circuit, two years on the 
                        Mount Vernon
                     circuit, two years on the 
                        New Harmony
                     circuit, and also upon the Owensville circuit.
            Dr. Holliday, who knew Father Shrader intimately during their lives, after quoting at length from the
                    latter as an original and one of the highest and best authorities on the beginnings of Methodism in
                    Indiana and the west, and describing his missionary labors on the Missouri
                    river, the first among protestant ministers, says of him: 
                        Such energy, devotion and toil, such cheerful self-denial and unostentatious moral heroism as
                            was displayed by the early Methodist preachers in the west, has never been equalled in the
                            history of our country, except, perhaps, in the case of the early Jesuit missionaries of the
                            Romish Church, who were the first explorers, authentic historians and geographers of the
                            great west, more than a century before Shrader's time.
                    
                
            An incident is given by the daughter of John Shrader upon the authority of an eye-witness, Mrs. Ann
                    Dooks, which occurred at a camp meeting near 
                  Mt.
                        Carmel, Illinois
               , where he was
                    actively at work as a local preacher. At the close of the services when the lights on the ground had
                    been put out, about 1:00 o'clock in the morning, a band of drunken rowdies entered the
                    meeting ground and created a disturbance. When urged to be quiet and retire they said that if they
                    could have their preacher preach a sermon they would be quiet. Upon being asked who their preacher
                    was they said Father Shrader. He was aroused from his bed, dressed, took the platform, the grounds
                    were lit up and he opened the services with a song. Those who knew him well describe his voice as
                    one of great musical power. He took for his text the subject "What will a man give in
                    exchange for his soul." At the end of the sermon, seekers were invited to come forward. A
                    number did so, and four of those rowdies, who by this time had become thoroughly sobered, professed
                    religion at this meeting, and later became Methodist preachers.
            In the biography of Joseph Tarkington is mentioned a preaching service in 
                        Evansville
                     in 1824, where he was travelling the circuit, at which several notables were present,
                         and among them he mentioned John Shrader as preaching, and
                    incidentally remarks that he (Tarkington) was converted at 
                        Bloomington
                     under the influence of a sermon preached by John Shrader.22
            
            The work of John Shrader, as a travelling preacher in the itinerancy continued for only about eight
                    years. He married in 1821, located and settled near Poseyville in 
                        Posey county
                    , upon a quarter section of land given to his wife by her father, Jonathan Jaquess, who
                    in 1815, when he came to Indiana territory, entered nine or more quarter sections of fine land, one
                    for each of his children. Shrader's lifework– as in a measure did Moses Ashworth
                    and Joseph Wheeler's– continued without interruption though as a local preacher
                    in active work in the ministry for which he seemed so fitted and in which he was so successful.
            MOSES ASHWORTH
            
            Moses Ashworth preceded Shrader in time as an active preacher and travelled the first circuit located
                    wholly north of the Ohio river in Indiana.
            The first entire circuit in the territory of Indiana was the Silver Creek, which was organized in
                    1807 with Moses Ashworth as the circuit preacher. This new circuit took in Clark's grant,
                    which had formerly been included within the Salt River and
                    Shelby circuit of the 
                        Kentucky
                     district. With the organization of this circuit, Indiana Methodism starts on its
                    separate career. Moses Ashworth closed his first year with a campmeeting, held in the
                    Robertson's neighborhood, a few miles from 
                        Charlestown
                    , and this was one of the first, if not the first camp-meeting to be held in Indiana.23
            
            The journal of the old Western conference24 shows that Moses Ashworth began his
                    work in the ministry about the first of the year 1805, and after nine months travelling he was
                    admitted to the conference at its session in 
                        Scott county
                    , October, 1805, on trial and appointed to the Salt River and 
                  
                     22
                            Autobiography of Joseph Tarkington (with an interesting introduction by
                            Thomas A. Goodwin), 98.
                  
                     23 Sweet, Circuit Rider Bays in Indiana, 8;
                            Holliday, Indiana Methodism, 38.
                  
                     
                                24
                             Published in full in Sweet's Rise of Methodism in the West,
                            71, seq.
                  
               
                    
                    
                        Shelby
                     circuits in the 
                        Kentucky
                     conference, with two others. In 1806 he was appointed alone to the 
                        Wayne
                     circuit on the 
                        Cumberland
                     district, which appears to indicate that he had succeeded so as to do the work without
                    aid.
            In 1807, at the conference held in September at Chilli-cothe, 
                        Ohio
                    , Ashworth was admitted into full connection, elected deacon, and at the same session
                    ordained deacon by Bishop Asbury, and he was this year appointed alone to the Silver Creek circuit
                    in Indiana territory. The exact limits of this circuit when first established are not mentioned
                    either by Holliday or Sweet, the latter of whom is authority on early Methodist conference records
                    in the West.25
            
            In 1809 after Ashworth had left Silver Creek circuit it embraced all of the settlements in the
                    southern portion of Indiana territory from the Wabash river up the 
                        Ohio
                     to Whitewater circuit.26
            
            In 1807 Silver Creek circuit was in the 
                        Kentucky
                     district, and at that time Ashworth was only twenty-four years old.
            In 1808 Ashworth was appointed by Bishop Asbury to the Holston circuit in the Holston district. The
                    records of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     conference held at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , September 30th, 1809, show that Ashworth's name stood upon the conference
                    roll as an active minister, but the minutes show that he had about the beginning of that year
                    located and his name does not further appear in the minutes of the Western conference which held its
                    last session in 1811, and was divided in 1812 into the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     conferences.
            Cartwright appears frequently in all of the journals of the conferences mentioned, until the last,
                    when he fell into the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference.
            Holliday describes Ashworth as "The apostle of Methodism in southern Indiana", and
                    says: 
                        Among the agencies honored in the early planting of churches in Indiana, and in carrying
                            forward revival efforts, local preachers and exhorters occupied a prominent place, and are
                            worthy of honorable mention. Many of the former had been traveling preachers, who had been
                            compelled to locate for want of support, and who continued to labor with efficiency. Such
                            was Moses Ashworth, the apostle of Methodism 
                        
                           26 Sweet, Circuit Rider Days in Indiana, 8;
                                    Holliday, Indiana Methodism, 38.
                        
                           28 William C. Smith, Indiana Miscellany,
                                51.
                     
                             in southern Indiana. He settled in 
                                Posey county
                            , where he labored as a local preacher for a number of years. These located
                            preachers usually acted in concert, and kept up a regular plan of appointments. Of these,
                            Garnett, Wheeler, Schrader, and Ashworth, who labored in 
                        Posey, Vanderburg
                     , and
                            adjoining counties, were prominent; and at camp-meetings and two-days meetings they were a
                                power.27
                  
                    
                
            From the rule more or less strictly in force at that early time, which practically operated to locate
                    a circuit rider when he married, it is probable that Ashworth voluntarily located about the first
                    part of the year 1809 because of his marriage not far from that date. The ages of his children show
                    that his marriage was not later than a couple of years from that date. The record of his activity
                    from this date until 1829, when he moved to 
                        Posey county
                    , Indiana, I have not been able to find.
            He lived in the same county with John Shrader, who located about 1821, and the two men, together with
                    Parrett and Wheeler, worked together during Ashworth's life. Ashworth married Elizabeth
                    Davis in 
                        Tennessee
                    , left several children in 
                        Tennessee
                    , and several in 
                        Posey county
                    . His daughter, Jane Ashworth, married Asbury Claud Jacquess in 1838. He was born in
                    1783 and died in the year 1838, and is buried in the country grave yard at 
                        Prairie
                     Chapel, about two miles from the Wabash river, not far from its
                    junction with the 
                        Ohio
                    .28
            
            METHODISM IN EVANSVILLE
            
            The progress of church organizations and building in 
                        Evansville
                     was slow both for financial and other reasons. The panic of 1821 lasted a number of
                    years, and affected the entire western country.29 But the progress of religion
                    was slow in the wilderness of this section as it had been in 
                        Kentucky
                    , 
                  
                     27 Holliday, History of Methodism, 88; for
                            Holliday's further reference to Wheeler and Parrett as local preachers, see page
                            240.
                  
                     28 At a meeting of the Methodist Minister's Association held
                            at 
                                Indianapolis
                             a short time previous to 1916, the centennial year of Indiana, Rev. C. G.
                            Frietsche, pastor of the Nipert Memorial German M. E. Church, read a paper to be presented
                            to the Indiana Annual Conference, recommending that suitable recognition be given in a
                            memorial to the Rev. Moses Ashworth as the first Methodist preacher appointed to Indiana.
                  
                     29 Esarey, History of Indiana, Vol. I, p.
                        280.
               
                     which furnished so large a proportion of the population at the
                    beginnings of Indiana and later.30
            
            Rev. Joseph Tarkington, father of John S. Tarkington of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , father of Booth Tarkington, travelled the circuit upon which 
                        Evansville
                     was a preaching point in 1824, and thus describes Methodism at that time: 
                        Next we went to 
                                Evansville
                            , which at that time, 1824, was very sickly. It appeared that half the houses
                            were empty. It had not a schoolhouse or meeting-house. There were not a dozen Methodists in
                            the town. There was an old frame building in which a school was taught, and sometimes
                            preaching had. The quarterly-meeting was held upstairs in a dilapidated frame house.
                            Armstrong preached on Saturday at eleven a. m., and George Randall preached at night. On
                            Sunday, Rev. John Schrader preached, and Armstrong followed; and Rev. 0. Fisher, of
                            Boonville, preached at night.
                        Mr. Warner, who kept the only hotel, a small frame house, said if Armstrong would preach
                            Monday night he could have the hotel dining-room, and Armstrong preached there that night.
                        Things here looked discouraging; few members, and no leader; the circuit preachers, Revs. W.
                            H. Smith and George Randall, with clothes well worn out.31
                  
                    
                
            The boldness of the irreligious element in 
                        Evansville
                     in 1838 is illustrated by an account of a sermon preached" by the pastor in
                    the Presbyterian church at that time, condemning social immorality when the "worst
                    element" threatened to break up the meeting.32
            
            In 1839 the presiding elder of the 
                        Vincennes
                     district, Rev. John Miller, whom Holliday classes as one of the
                    "fathers", describes the improved condition shown in his district after mentioning
                    the building of Locust Street church, the first Methodist church building erected in 
                        Evansville
                    .33 He says 
                  
                     30 Cotherell, Pioneer Kentucky, 241.
                  
                     31 Joseph Tarkington, Autobiography, 99.
                  
                     32 Reilly, History of Locust Street Church, 37.
                  
                     33 The first Methodist church building erected in 
                                Vanderburgh county
                             was built in 1834 in the English settlement in 
                                Scott
                             township, north 
                                Vanderburgh county
                            . The Presbyterians had built a church in 
                                Evansville
                             in 1832 under the ministry of Rev. Calvin Butler, who carne as a missionary
                            from 
                                New England
                            ; an appeal was made by the 
                                Evansville
                             trustees to the church east to aid the work which could not be completed
                            without such aid and Mr. Butler executed the commission and procured the necessary funds
                            east. Reilly, History of Walnut Street Church, Ch. 2.
                  In 1831 the Mechanicsville school society and congregation bought a lot in Stringtown,
                            three miles from 
                                Evansville
                            , and that year or the next built a building which is still standing. Its
                            charter comprised a union of school
               
                     "There is an increasing interest in the erection of
                    chapels and more has been done within the last three years than in the thirty years
                        previous."34
            
            An account of the building and dedication, March 31st, 1839, of the 
                        Evansville
                     Methodist church on Locust street, by which name it was called, is thus given in the
                    church paper35 by the pastor, J. H, Bayless, well known in the state later as
                    Dr. Bayless, a prominent divine: 
                        At the hour appointed for the dedication, the house was filled to overflowing. The dedication
                            sermon was preached by Brother Maffitt,36 who had been especially
                            invited for the occasion. His text was the sixth and seventh verses of the second chapter of
                            Haggai. His sermon met the highest expectations of his friends; and to the favorable
                            impression which it made upon the minds of his hearers, may be traced the crowded assemblies
                            and fixed attention which he received during his stay with us. At the conclusion of the
                            sermon a liberal collection was taken up, to assist in liquidating the debts hanging over
                            the building.
                        Our house is one of the best and neatest churches I have seen in any part of the state. It is
                            sixty feet by forty, with a basement, which is to be divided into smaller rooms. Its cost
                            was between five and six thousand dollars. This amount of money has been so expended as to
                            avoid the appearance of extravagance on the one hand, and meanness on the other. Some
                            attention has been paid to its external appearance, so that it stands an ornament to the
                            town. Care has been taken that its internal arrangements should be neat and comfortable. The
                            pulpit, altar, and aisles are all neatly carpeted. Thus erected, furnished, and arranged, it
                            was dedicated to God; and it was soon evident that He accepted the offering at the hands of
                            His people; for He came down in the midst in great power; and filled the house with His
                            glory. Such was the interest evinced in the subject of religion, that our meeting was
                            protracted nine days. Brother Maffitt, notwithstanding his feeble health, labored with us
                            night and day, with great success; our altar being continually crowded by such as were
                            inquiring what they should do to be saved; most of whom, 
                        and church trusts in one building, which was called a meeting-house and used for
                                    school and church purposes both, until some twenty years ago a new brick school
                                    building left the old one for church uses exclusively. The Indiana law of 1831 was
                                    so framed for a society too poor to build and maintain buildings for church purposes
                                        alone.Acts of 1831, 480.
                        
                                    34
                                    Western Christian Advocate, March 29th, 1839.
                        
                           35
                                    Western Christian Advocate, May 3, 1839.
                        
                           36 Rev. John Newland Maffitt was at this time one of the
                                    celebrated pulpit orators of the west, who also did work as an evangelist. An
                                    interesting description of him is given by his friend Milburn, the blind man
                                    eloquent. Maffitt died in Milburn's pulpit while preaching in Mobile. W. H.
                                    Milburn, The Lance, Cross and Canoe, 381; Tarkington, Autobiography, 135.
                     
                             ere our meetings were over, were enabled to set to their
                            seals that God is true. About one hundred and forty persons applied for admission into the
                            church, and we presume about the same number were converted to God.
                    
                
            There is every reason to believe that Shrader, Wheeler and Parrett, were present at the dedication of
                    Locust Street church, as local preachers, as they lived in 
                        Vanderburgh
                     and 
                        Posey counties
                     at the time.
            In 1848 Rev. Thomas A. Goodwin, the first graduate of Asbury University at Green Castle, was sent to
                    Locust street, 
                        Evansville
                    , and in 1908 he published a letter37 giving an interesting picture
                    of the church and the people: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        EVANSVILLE METHODISM IN 1848.
                        By Rev. T. A. Goodwin, D.D.
                        That Sunday devoted to the old folks in Trinity church, 
                                        Evansville
                                    , Ind., must have been an enjoyable occasion. At first I could not
                                    repress the wish that some one had thought of inviting me, the oldest living pastor
                                    of that church. But why should I? Only one man, so far as I know, yet lives who was
                                    a member in October, 1848, when I became pastor of the only Methodist Episcopal
                                    church in the then little city, and it was not a charge to be much desired at that.
                                    There were less than two hundred members, and some of these lived three miles in the
                                    country. The church was large enough for the congregation; but it was dingy inside
                                    and out, and approached from the street by uncovered wooden steps, too rickety to be
                                    safe; and it was in cumbered by a debt of $75 for wood and oil and
                                    janitor's services, which could not be repudiated, as I learned at the
                                    first official meeting, and an unpaid balance of more than $100 to my
                                    immediate predecessor, Rev. William V. Daniel, which no one thought of paying. He
                                    had received $193, out of which he paid $40 house-rent.
                        The stewards had provided the same house for me, and my goods were taken from the
                                    steamboat to it, although I had notified them that I would not live in it. I told
                                    them I never had lived in such a house, and I did not think I would ever have to.
                                    Whereupon one, more outspoken than the others, quoted the Discipline at me, which 
                              
                                 37
                                            Western Christian Advocate. Dr. Goodwin was a brilliant
                                            young preacher; was, according to his own statement and credible historians,
                                            so discriminated against by the presiding elders in favor of the uneducated
                                            ministers as to compel him to locate. He became one of the leading local
                                            preachers of America in his writings and influence. I knew him intimately in
                                            his later years, and doubt somewhat the judgment of some of his clerical
                                            contemporaries that he made a mistake in locating from active work. Sweet,
                                                Circuit Rider Days, 76. Tarkington, Autobiography, introduction by Goodwin, 15, 16.
                           
                                     said that a preacher that would not live in the
                                    house provided for him should have no "allowance" for house-rent.
                                    But a better house was soon found at -75 a year, and my
                                    "allowance" was made to cover it– $216
                                    quarterage, $75 house-rent, and $109 table expenses, if they
                                    could raise it, making in all $400.
                        The first thing was to liquidate that debt for fuel and light and janitor's
                                    services. Next came new steps outside, and whitewashing and painting within; and
                                    they seemed surprised that they could meet such drains upon their purses and live.
                                    But this was not all clone at once. It took six months or more, and when conference
                                    came the entire "allowance" had been paid, with a surplus of
                                    $75 in what was known as the "Blackbag collection,"
                                    which was donated to me as a compliment for having taught them how to raise the
                                    money–the largest salary they had ever paid, and the first time they had
                                    ever paid up in full; and I have been informed that they never since have failed to
                                    pay in full all claims.
                        As all other departments of the work–Sunday school, prayer meetings,
                                    congregations, and accessions–were about in the same proportion, I may be
                                    permitted to tell the secret of my success in each and all. I had not gone far in my
                                    reconnoissance before I discovered the need of an assistant pastor. I visited from
                                    house to house, but I could not visit every family every week. I found in the entire
                                    charge only five Western Christian Advocates. One of them came to
                                    me, one to the presiding elder, one to a local preacher, and two to two of the
                                    stewards. I began at once to put a copy of the paper in every family. I knew it
                                    would require work, but that was what I was there for, but before the ensuing May I
                                    had succeeded, except in two families. One of these preferred the 
                                        New York
                                    
                                    Advocate, and one the Zion's Herald,
                                    and I allowed them their choice. In doing this, in several cases I got two, and in
                                    one case three, poor families to join, and in two or three cases of widows with
                                    large families I got small contributions from some brethren, who began to love to
                                    give since they had found they could. And now, in the quiet evening of life, there
                                    is no part of the work of my manhood's prime that seems to have yielded
                                    such returns as the days and hours that I devoted to persuading men and women to
                                    take good papers, and buy and read good books. In some cases it took much
                                    persuading. For more than a quarter of a century it was common for Judge Iglehart
                                    and others to refer to my two years' pastorate in 
                                        Evansville
                                     as the turning-point in Methodism in that city. The good reading that I
                                    put in the hands of young and old was the principal instrument in that result.
                        It is dangerous to start an old man on reminiscenting; he never knows when to stop.
                                    These recollections of the long ago call to mind the kind of singing we had then. We
                                    lined the hymns, of course, and then anybody "pitched the tune"
                                    that could. There were three who took it in turn about; that is, if they could get a
                                    chance. Each in his haste to get in his work ahead of the others would sometimes
                                    pitch too high or too low, or try to make a long-meter tune fit a  common-meter hymn. About this time Asa Iglehart, a
                                    young lawyer who knew how to sing, moved into our city. Our method grieved him much,
                                    and he proposed that I give him the hymns in advance, and invite all who could sing
                                    to meet Saturday nights at his house and rehearse. To have proposed a choir would
                                    have smashed things. After the first announcement, I added: "Now, if you
                                    don't go and learn how to sing, I will lead the singing myself."
                                    John Ingle came to me after the benediction and said with emphasis:
                                    "They'll go. If anything on earth would induce them, that threat
                                    to lead the singing yourself will do it." They went, and that is the
                                    genesis of the unsurpassed chorus choir for which the church was afterwards famous.
                                    How it is now I do not know; but I shall know hereafter if they will let me know
                                    when they hold their next old people's meeting.
                     
                  
               
                
            About the year 1851, through the aid of Locust Street as the mother church, a new church was built on
                    Ingle street, 
                        Evansville
                    . Later under another name, now known as Central M. E. church, a large building was
                    built on Mary and 
                        Franklin
                     streets by the same congregation and is a flourishing church.
            In 1861, under the pastorate of Dr. S. T. Gillett, a great revival of religion occurred in 
                        Evansville
                     in Locust Street church, and at this time the lot was purchased upon which, in 1867,
                    was completed and dedicated a large church building at a cost of $85,000, and the
                    trustees and membership of Locust Street church changed the name of their corporation and church to
                    Trinity and moved into the new building now recognized as the mother church of Methodism in 
                        Evansville
                    , which traces its beginning a century ago to the meeting at Hugh McGary's
                    double log warehouse, which we celebrate today.
            In tracing the direct influence of John Shrader upon the life of the people of this part of Indiana,
                    it may be said that Trinity church is probably now the greatest single religious and moral force in
                    Methodism in southwestern Indiana and that it is one of the greatest moral and religious forces of
                    all denominations in southern Indiana.
            Trinity M. E. church, 
                        Evansville
                    , has about 1,000 members. Central M. E. church has about 700 members, with the largest
                    Sunday school in 
                        Evansville
                     and southern Indiana, including a membership of about 1,500 with an average attendance
                    of 750 or greater. Bayard Park M. E. church absorbed  a small
                    church called Kingsley church, to which was taken about 100 members from Trinity church, and a large
                    church building with a parsonage was built in the residence portion of the city, and is now one of
                    the leading churches of the city and has a membership of about 600. The organization and building of
                    this church was under the direction of Trinity church.
            Simpson developed from a mission on 
                        Pennsylvania
                     street, and is now a vigorous church on the west side, with a membership of about 800
                    members.
            Wesley, originally a mission from Trinity church, is a flourishing church with about 400 members.
                    Howell M. E. church, originally a mission of Trinity church, is a flourishing church with about 350
                    members. This church is now planning to build.
            St. James has a membership of about 110 members.
            Fifth Avenue has a membership of about 90 members. All of these churches, except Fifth Avenue, own
                    parsonages.
            There are in 
                        Evansville
                     approximately 4,000 members of the Methodist church, with a constituency of about
                    10,000 people, including members. The membership of the Methodist churches in the 
                        Evansville
                     district of the Indiana conference, which embraces the counties in the first
                    congressional district of Indiana, is 14,000, with a constituency estimated at not less than 35,000
                    people.
            When Trinity succeeded Locust Street church in 1867, after several years in building, it became the
                    central force among Methodist churches in southwestern Indiana. Among its leaders, without whom it
                    could not have been built, or maintained, as it was, were a number of members of four families of
                    pioneer origin, whose history is a part of the growth of Methodism in 
                  Vanderburgh, Posey
                and 
                        Warrick counties
                    , and who were likewise commonwealth builders of Indiana, worthy of more extended
                    mention than I am able to give them.
            At that time, and continuously since then, from one-fourth to one-third of the official board of that
                    church, composing all its various officers, have been members of these families, Jaquess, Wheeler,
                    Ingle and Iglehart. The pastor in charge during the laborious work of building Trinity church,
                    Albion  Fellows, who gave his life to the work, was by marriage a
                    member of one of them. One of them, of the second generation of native ministers in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , Ferdinand C. Iglehart, filled a full term as pastor of the church. More than half of
                    the entire period mentioned these families have furnished the superintendent of the Sunday school.
            THE JAQUESS FAMILY
            
            This was a 
                        Posey county
                     family and was represented in 
                        Evansville
                     Methodism by Jonathan Jaquess, the third, and his brother William B., who controlled
                    the leading wholesale dry goods house there of Jaquess Brothers & Company, both leaders in
                    building and sustaining the church, the latter for many years superintendent of the Sunday school.
                    The following sketch of this family is furnished by Mr. George J. Waters of Poseyville.
            Prominent in early Methodism in southern Indiana, was Jonathan J. Jaquess who came to Indiana from 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1815. He was born in 
                        New Jersey
                     in 1753 and served in the American Revolution under Colonel Sheldon, commander of the
                    7th 
                        New Jersey
                     regiment, afterwards known as the Light Horse brigade. He moved to 
                        Kentucky
                     settling near Cyn-thiana, and in September, 1815, with his family, consisting of
                    himself and wife and nine children, viz: Garreston, George, John Wesley, Ogden, Fletcher, Asbury,
                    Elizabeth, Permelia and Rebecca, together with other relatives, came to Indiana and settled in 
                        Posey county
                     near what is now the town of Poseyville where he acquired a large body of land. That he
                    was a man of deep religious conviction is very evident from the names he gave his children, most of
                    them being named for prominent churchmen or Bible characters. He was originally a member of the
                    Episcopal church and it is related of him that upon taking leave of his old home in 
                        New Jersey
                     he called upon his rector and, stating to him the fact that there was no church of his
                    own denomination where he was going, asked that he suggest a church with which he might unite. His
                    rector told him that there were no better people than the Methodists and suggested that he unite
                    with that church.
            
            It was not long after this little colony reached Indiana that a church society was formed, for John
                    Shrader, in a letter written February 24th, 1876, says:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        In the autumn of 1815 the first class was formed in this part of 
                                        Posey county
                                     by Amos King at the residence of Jonathan Jaquess and consisted of
                                    Jonathan Jaquess and Rebecca, his wife, and Katherine Rankin, their daughter-in-law.
                                    During the same autumn Rebecca and Amelia, daughters of Jonathan Jaquess, and Anna
                                    Gale were ridded to the number.
                     
                  
               
                
            This was the beginning of the Methodist church in Poseyville, now known as Saint Paul's M.
                    E. church.
            All of the children of Jonathan Jaquess eventually became members of the Methodist church, and the
                    early records of the church at Poseyville disclose the fact that some were officially connected
                    covering a period of many years. It appears that from the. organization up to and including the
                    present time, some of his descendants have been officially connected with it John Shrader served as
                    its pastor about the year 1821, and it was while he was serving this charge that he met and later
                    married Permelia Jaquess, October 9, 1821.
            The Jaquess family were liberal contributors toward the establishment of Asbury university and it was
                    through the contribution of John Wesley Jaquess that a scholarship in that institution was awarded
                    James F. Jaquess, his nephew, who graduated in the first class in the year 1845. 1847 James F.
                    Jaquess founded 
                        Jacksonville
                     female college and was its first president, serving in that capacity seven years. In
                    1856 he was elected president of Quincy college, 
                  Quincy, Illinois
               , which
                    position he occupied for five years, achieving distinguished service. He organized and commanded the
                    73rd 
                        Illinois
                     regiment and was commissioned by Lincoln in 1864 to perform a hazardous and important
                    mission to 
                        Richmond
                     where he interviewed Jefferson Davis with a view to bringing about peace between the
                    north and south. Rev. William Stevenson, former chaplain of the 8th 
                        Missouri
                     regiment and for fifty-six years a member of the 
                        Illinois
                     conference, in a letter to the 
                        Rushville
                     (
                        Illinois
                    ) Daily Citizen, a few years ago, stated that the idea of the Grand
                    Army of the Republic first originated with Col. Jaquess, Rev. William  Rutledge and Rev. J. S. Cromwell. Rev. John D. Kruwell, who was pastor
                    of The Kumler M. E church at 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , in an article published in the Christian Advocate in 1909, at which time there was some discussion as to
                    Lincoln's religion, relates that at a reunion of the 73rd 
                        Illinois
                     regiment held at 
                        Springfield
                    , September 28 and 29, 1897, on which occasion Col. Jaquess delivered the principal
                    address, he made the statement that Lincoln was converted while he was pastor of the First M. E.
                    church at 
                        Springfield
                    , setting forth in detail the circumstances of the incident. The church stood on the
                    site new occupied by the Ridgway national bank.38
            
            William B. Jaquess and Jonathan S. Jaquess, brothers of James F. Jaquess, were pioneer wholesale
                    merchants of the city of 
                        Evansville
                    , and were identified with numerous industrial enterprises of the city. They are
                    remembered by the older citizens of 
                        Evansville
                     as men of excellent character and prominent churchmen.
            Dr. George D. Jaquess, another brother, was surgeon of the 80th Indiana regiment and shortly after
                    the Civil war located in 
                  Helena, Arkansas
               , where he became prominent in business
                    circles and was several times elected mayor of the city. Still another brother, Thomas C. Jaquess,
                    was for many years engaged in mercantile pursuits in the town of Poseyville and acquired large land
                    interests. He was elected to the state senate from the district composed of 
                        Posey
                     and 
                        Vanderburg counties
                     in 1866 where he achieved considerable distinction as legislator and a leader of his
                    party.
            Asbury C. Jaquess, the youngest son of Jonathan Jaquess, was a fine type of American citizen. He had
                    the instincts of a true country gentleman; refined in manner, with an appreciation of good
                    literature and progressive in his tendencies. He was the first in his section of the country to
                    install a self-binder and the first to put into successful operation a system of tile drainage. Much
                    of the early history of the Jaquess 
                  
                     38 The incident referred to is found in Appendix III, pp. 241, 309 et seq. in The Soul of Abraham Lincoln, by Wm. E.
                            Barton, recently published, copying an article from the N. T. Christian
                                Advocate of Nov. 11, 1909. William B. Jaquess, the brother of Dr. James F. Jaquess,
                            referred to in the article, I knew personally well, and his character for integrity and
                            truth were of the highest.
               
                     family has been compiled from his journal and numerous notes.
            William Jaquess, a Presbyterian minister of 
                  Detroit,
                            Michigan
               , is a son of Jonathan S.
                    Jaquess. Jonathan Jaquess and the little colony which he headed left their impress on this part of
                    Indiana. Their descendants as a rule have been sturdy, honorable and progressive citizens to which
                    fact the community now bears witness. Many of them left the confines of the original settlement and
                    cast their lots in various parts of the 
                        United States
                    , some achieving distinction in local and state affairs. At a reunion of the Jaquess
                    family held on the old homestead in September, 1915, celebrating the one hundredth anniversary of
                    their coming to Indiana, there were present several hundred descendants, representing many states.
            THE WHEELERS
            
            Joseph Wheeler the local preacher, whose history is fully recorded in local history,39 was represented in Trinity church by his son, Edward E. Wheeler, wholesale grocer, and his
                    descendants live in 
                        Evansville
                    . His son, Joseph Wheeler, Jr., was a prominent merchant in 
                        Evansville
                    , and left descendants including Miss Mary Wheeler, a granddaughter.
            The daughters of Joseph Wheeler were Mrs. Elizabeth Thompson, who died in 
                        Washington
                    , Indiana, leaving a family; Mrs. Daniel S. Lane, wife of one of the leading physicians
                    of 
                        Evansville
                    , who left descendants in 
                        Evansville
                    ; Mrs. Ann Goslee, who died in 
                        Evansville
                    , leaving among her descendants the late Tillie Goslee, who was the first public
                    librarian in 
                        Evansville
                    , one of the best known and greatly beloved personalities in 
                        Evansville
                    , who continued in active work until her death in 1920; also Mr. James Goslee, who
                    married Kate Jaquess, daughter of Jonathan Jaquess the third, and whose descendants are
                    representatives of both the Wheelers and the Jaquess family; Mrs. Joseph P. Elliott, wife of the
                    author of Elliott's History of 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    . She left, among other descendants, Mary Louise Erskine, widow of Levi Erskine.40
            
            
               
                  39 Elliott, History 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 238; .History 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 280.
               
                  40 Mrs. Erskine as a very small child was the first organist of Locust
                        Street church, and remembers the incident of the introduction of the organ into the church,
                        which produced great commotion under which some of the leading members of the church left it and
                        never returned.
            
            
            Mark Wheeler, brother of Rev. Joseph Wheeler, followed him from 
                        London
                     to North 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     in the English settlement in 1822, and became a leader in Methodism, at whose house for
                    years before a church was built, religious services and the first class meeting in that section were
                        held.41 His wife died at 
                  Marietta, Ohio
               , from the
                    hardships of the journey down the Ohio river in the emigration.42 Later he married Sarah Ingle Cowle, sister of John Ingle of Saunders-ville, and after
                    her death he married Elizabeth, daughter of Levi Igleheart, Sr., of 
                        Warrick county
                    . Of the later marriage were a daughter and a son, Robert, whose son, Mark Wheeler, is a
                    lieutenant-colonel in the regular army U. S. A.
            Mark Wheeler's son, William, entered the travelling ministry of the M. E. church at an early
                    day, and died in the work. His son, Henry Wheeler, of Scott township, 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , was a local Methodist minister, who during his long life preached in the country
                    churches with acceptability. Henry Wheeler left among other descendants a son, Walton M. Wheeler, of
                    the 
                        Evansville
                     bar, and grandchildren, children of Saunders and Lucy Wheeler Hornbrook, among whom are
                    Col. James Hornbrook of the 17th U. S. cavalry, and Henry Hallam Hornbrook of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     bar.
            Mark Wheeler's daughter, Eliza, married a son of John Ingle of Saundersville, James Ingle,
                    also a Methodist minister, and their descendants, children of their son, the late Mark Wheeler
                    Ingle, live in 
                        Philadelphia
                    .
            Mark Wheeler's step-son, John Cowle, entered the active ministry of the Methodist church,
                    and died in the work.43 His step-daughter, Ann Cowle, married Asa Igleheart of 
                        Warrick county
                    .
            
               
                  41
                        Indiana Magazine of History, Vol. 15, pp. 157–8.
               
                  42 For a beautiful description of a similar incident in the early
                        emigration see James Hall, Legends of the West, 313.
               
                  43 For an account of the rise of the first native ministry in southwestern
                        Indiana, which came largely from the Wheeler and Ingle families, see English Settlement in
                        Indiana, Indiana Magazine of History, v. 15, pp. 140, 159, 160. To this should
                        be added members of the Jaquess family in 
                            Posey County
                        , of which John Shrader was by marriage a member, and in which he exercised great
                        influence at a very early period.
            
            
            THE INGLES
            
            This family appears the most prominently of all others in Faux, Travels. Faux lived
                    at 
                        Somersham
                    , Huntingdonshire, 
                        England
                    , had been a boyhood friend of John Ingle (2nd), known in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     as John Ingle of Saundersville to distinguish him from his son, John Ingle, Jr., who
                    from 1840 until the close of the Civil war, was the leading man in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , and so far as my knowledge goes, in southwestern Indiana as a commonwealth builder.
            John Ingle, a Baptist minister of Somersham, frequently referred to by Faux as the patriarch, kept
                    Faux's butler ano! took charge of his business in 
                        England
                     for more than a year, upon the promise of the latter to visit the former's
                    son, John Ingle of Saundersville in Indiana, when he came to America and after traveling a year in
                    the Atlantic coast states in November, 1819, Faux came from 
                        Philadelphia
                    , eight hundred miles, due west, and spent seven weeks in the English settlement, in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , visiting with Ingle, who introduced him to the leaders of the 
                        New Harmony
                     settlement and the 
                  Edwards county, Illinois
               , English settlement of Birkbeck and
                    Flower, of the last two of whom he writes with most indiscreet freedom. The monotony and hardships
                    of pioneer life, the beginnings of life anew in the wilderness, without servants and without the
                    necessaries of English life, to which Faux had been accustomed, the second year of Ingle's
                    life in America, so overpowered Faux's judgment as to present in his diary a picture almost
                    hopeless, but it was only a short time after he returned to 
                        England
                     that the resources of the land and the country yielded a more comfortable living, and
                    the dire forebodings of Faux were never realized, and John Ingle of Saundersville lived until the
                    last quarter of the century, to become the head of a large, prominent, and successful family. Two of
                    his sons, James and William Ingle, became members of the first native pioneer Methodist ministry,
                    who though baptised as children in 
                        England
                     in the Baptist faith, joined the Methodist church under the leadership of the Wheelers,
                    Parrett, Shrader and others before the 
                  
                     44 Thwaite, Early Western Travels, Vol. XI,
                        240.
               
                     Baptist church was established in their locality. James Ingle
                    married Eliza, daughter of Mark Wheeler, and the descendants of William Ingle live in this section,
                    including the children of Frank Staser.
            The oldest of the children of John Ingle of Saundersville was a son known in the history of 
                        Evansville
                     and southwestern Indiana as John Ingle, Jr. He was born in 1812 in
                            
                  Somersham, England
               , but reared in the wilderness. His education in the schools was
                    limited, but his natural ability, high ideals, and the training in the life of a pioneer developed
                    so many qualities of leadership as to make a remarkable history, and his active life is bound up in
                    the history of 
                        Evansville
                    . He was in his seventh year when he left 
                        England
                    , and had already had one year in a "dame" school, and his father took
                    a standard English newspaper as long as he lived, and when Ingle came to manhood, after learning the
                    cabinet-maker's trade in Stringtown and travelling through the states along the river to 
                        New Orleans
                    , he sailed for 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where he studied law at night and earned his living by work during the day.
            He had, therefore, the view of the old world civilization, as well as of the Atlantic coast states,
                    when he returned in 1838 to 
                        Evansville
                    . He then began law practice with James Lockhart, one of the strong characters of the
                    time, and after remaining with him a year, became a partner of Judge Bat-tell, one of the prominent
                    citizens of 
                        Evansville
                     from the beginning. With Judge Battell, his partner, and later alone in the practice,
                    he became one of the leaders of the 
                        Evansville
                     bar, and travelled the circuit, and is mentioned in the local histories of other
                    counties in the circuit, and he had a large and valuable practice. He held for a time the office of
                    prosecuting attorney. After Judge Battell retired in 1846, Horatio Q. Wheeler was admitted to Mr.
                    Ingle's office as a student or young lawyer. A year later Wheeler became his partner, and
                    in 1849 Asa Iglehart entered the firm then known as Ingle, Wheeler and Iglehart.
            John Ingle, Jr., was the only man in 
                        Evansville
                     who saw the future in a railroad, and knew how and was able to give the time to
                    organize, promote, and build it and lead in its operation. Other men, equally prominent in other
                    individual  work, aided in many ways, but no one else was so
                    active and influential in all of that work as a whole. He was a charter member of the 
                        Evansville
                     & 
                        Illinois
                     railroad company, organized under a special charter, later known as the 
                        Evansville
                     & 
                        Crawfordsville
                     railroad company and still later as the 
                        Evansville
                     & 
                        Terre Haute
                     railroad company, which later became consolidated with the 
                        Chicago
                     & Eastern 
                        Illinois
                     Railroad company. In 1853 the railroad was completed to Pigeon creek, then to 
                        Princeton
                    , then to 
                        Vincennes
                    , later to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and still later, under the administration of John Ingle as its president, extended to 
                        Rockville
                    . This was the first railroad in southwestern Indiana south of 
                        Vincennes
                     and west of 
                        Louisville
                    . The first president of the railroad was Judge Hall of 
                        Princeton
                    , who was a man of high character, had been circuit judge, was engaged in other affairs,
                    and was chosen by the directors to that office, but it is said by one of the historians that Ingle
                    rescued the railroad enterprise, which was struggling when the city was poor, and when the men who
                    had undertaken its beginning were exhausted and powerless, and that by his energy, persistence and
                    fidelity he completed the railroad and managed its affairs with superior skill during his executive
                    control; that the railroad enjoyed immunity from accident, as no other railroad in the country; and
                    that he ran no trains on Sunday upon religious and conscientious grounds.45
            
            John Ingle was the first secretary and the superintendent of the railroad, and had charge of the
                    contracts for building, and was most active in the purchase of the rails first used in the building,
                    and went to 
                        England
                     to buy them. The city of 
                        Evansville
                     and county of 
                        Vanderburgh
                     each subscribed $100,000.00, with which money the rails were bought, which
                    finished the road to Pigeon creek. This event was one of supreme importance to 
                        Evansville
                    , and was celebrated by a general holiday and an excursion to Pigeon creek on fiat cars
                    used as passenger coaches, which fact is still remembered by 
                  
                     45
                            Ency. of Biography of Indiana, by George Irving Reed (1895), page 227. In
                            this sketch is found the tribute of the editor and proprietor of Graham, Magazine paid to his friend Ingle after his death. See also interesting article on
                            John Ingle, Jr., by Mr. Thomas James de la Hunt, 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Courier, November 28, 1920, referring to Graham Essay dedicated to Ingle
                            in Graham Magazine for March, 1851, v. 38, p. 279.
               
                     some of the oldest citizens. Public meetings were held before
                    the election and opposition developed to such an innovation as a railroad, with a heavy tax to aid
                    in the building of it, and some very absurd objections were urged against it, but John
                    Ingle's humor and sarcasm in public advocacy of the improvement, particularly in his speech
                    at the great meeting in the courthouse at 
                        Evansville
                     just before the election, carried the public by storm.46
            
            John Ingle soon became president of the railroad, and remained such as long as his health permitted,
                    for about twenty years, living to see that railroad the greatest single factor other than the
                        Ohio river in the development of 
                        Evansville
                     into a modern city.
            He was the first president and most active promoter of the first telegraph line established south of 
                        Vincennes
                     and west of 
                        Louisville
                    , the local electric telegraph line into 
                        Evansville
                    , the daily paper of which until then obtained its latest news irregularly from the
                    newspapers of 
                        Louisville
                    , at least two days old.
            He was the pioneer in the coal mining industry in this part of southwestern Indiana. He was active in
                    the organization of an English syndicate to open the first coal mine in this section. With his
                    father, John Ingle of Saundersville, joint owner in a large tract of land adjoining and below 
                        Evansville
                    , joining with him, he made a 999 year lease for a coal mine to this syndicate upon his
                    own land, surrounding what was later known as Coal Mine hill, adjoining 
                        Evansville
                     on the west; this syndicate sank the first shaft for a coal mine in this section. When
                    the machinery and operations of a non-resident syndicate were too cumbersome to succeed, John Ingle
                    purchased the lease and invested his own money in promoting the mining of coal, and under the
                    management of his oldest son, John Ingle, Jr., in the name of John Ingle & Son, developed
                    the mine successfully. After the death of John Ingle, Jr., his children, in the name of John Ingle
                    & Company, and later as the John Ingle Coal Company, a corporation, developed the mine until
                    in recent years the coal gave out and the lease was abandoned for that reason.
            
               
                  44 Elliott, History, 401.
            
            
            Later another son of John Ingle, Jr., David Ingle (who at his death left a fine farming estate and
                    coal mining interests at 
                        Ayrshire
                     in 
                        Pike county
                    ) one of the most successful coal mine operators of Southern Indiana, re-organized the
                    old Bodiam mine property in the name of the Ingle Coal Company, a corporation, and from the old
                    shaft opened entries under the Ohio river into 
                        Kentucky
                    , from which coal was long successfully mined through the original shaft.
            James Moore and John Archbold, as well as other successful mine operators in and near 
                        Evansville
                    , had their first lessons in the business as employees of John Ingle & Company.
                    Equally prominent as a coal operator, as was his father, the late David Ingle, is David Ingle, Jr.,
                    a citizen of 
                        Evansville
                    , grandson of John Ingle, Jr.
            John Ingle, Jr., was active with others in the promotion of the building of the 
                        Wabash
                     & Erie canal, through to 
                        Evansville
                     from Lake Erie. When the first boat came through from
                        Lake Erie to 
                        Evansville
                    ,47 a great celebration of all the people was had and John Ingle was
                    chosen to make the address of the occasion.
            He was active as the first president and leader in instituting 
                        Evansville
                    's first public library, and served as president and director for twenty years,
                    aiding in its support by lecturing in 
                        Evansville
                    , as well as in other ways.
            He was, for all of his active life, a leader in Methodism. He was Sunday school superintendent of
                    Locust Street church, later Trinity Methodist church, for nearly twenty years. He was president of
                    the board of trustees of Asbury (now De-Pauw) University for a number of years, a post recognized as
                    held by men of ability and prominence of that church in the state. When the public school system of
                    Indiana was first established by law under the new constitution of 1852, it was no accident that the
                    man so well-fitted, then chosen for leadership in the public school work in 
                        Evansville
                    , was Horatio Q. Wheeler, a young lawyer, junior partner of John Ingle, a member of the
                    firm of Ingle, Wheeler & Iglehart.
            
               
                  47 When this boat reached a point about 12 miles north of 
                            Evansville
                        , the motive power, consisting of a mule, gave out, and Levi IgTehart, Jr., who
                        lived on a farm not far from the canal furnished an ox-team to pull the boat into 
                            Evansville
                        .
            
            
            Mr. Wheeler was most wisely selected for that work, and became generally known as the father of the
                    public school system of 
                        Evansville
                    . From the beginning of our public school system until Horatio Q. Wheeler resigned as
                    superintendent and managing trustee of the public school system to become the president of the old
                    First national bank of 
                        Evansville
                    , the school management of 
                        Evansville
                     was known among some of the western teachers as the management of Yankee school
                    teachers. In the selection of school trustee to cooperate with Mr. Wheeler, there were chosen
                    Phillip Horn-brook, also a pioneer from the Saundersville-English settlement then living in 
                        Evansville
                    , and William Hughes, a brother-in-law of John Ingle, Jr., a leading citizen and a
                    representative of the Catholic church element in our public schools.
            Local history of 
                        Evansville
                     records the incident how John Ingle, Jr., with his foot, overturned an open barrel full
                    of whiskey on election day, from which whiskey was being served, free, in tincups, in front of the
                    court house on Main street in 
                        Evansville
                    , the only polling place in the town at that time.48 He was sued for
                    the value of the whiskey.
            As the leader of the English element which had now extended throughout the county, early in the
                    40's, he established communication by correspondence between the emigrants in America and
                    their relatives in 
                        England
                    . This continued for many years in the sending of money to aid friends in 
                        England
                    , to come to America, and facilitated the extensive emigration in the 40's and
                    50's from 
                        England
                     and 
                        Ireland
                     to 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , and the city of 
                        Evansville
                    ; this work, a primitive bureau of emigration, so established by John Ingle, Jr., was
                    continued by his partners after he retired from the law to go into railroading.
            In the history of the English settlement in 
                  Edwards county,
                            Illinois
               , George Flower, then living at 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , Indiana, speaks of John Ingle (of Saundersville) and his family coming over with him
                    in his ship in 1818 and says "Mr. Ingle is living (1860) near 
                        Evansville
                    , and his son, 
                  
                     48
                            Elliott, 402.
               
                     John Ingle, Jr., is a prominent professional man engaged in all
                    the public business of the city."
            This statement was substantially true. Another historian says that during his residence of nearly
                    sixty years in 
                        Evansville
                     his life was interwoven with the corporate existence of the city and worn out in
                    promoting the welfare of the people by developing the resources of the country, improving the
                    condition of commerce.40 And it may be added in promoting the intellectual,
                    moral and religious welfare of the community. His patriotism during the Civil war was active,
                    intense and earnest. He held up the hands of Oliver P. Morton, the great governor. He was one of the
                    few men in whose counsel the governor implicitly trusted and on whom he relied in times of great
                    peril to the state. At that time 
                        Evansville
                     was a place of great importance in the conduct by the government of the Civil war.
            The railroad under Ingle's management reached the terminal point of operations, particularly
                    for supplies of men and munitions to western 
                        Kentucky
                    , Ft. Donelson, 
                        Nashville
                     and the lower 
                        Mississippi
                    , in which Morton took so active a part.50 When the national
                    government could not furnish powder to prosecute war in the west, Morton operated a factory in the
                    name of the state upon borrowed money on his own credit when a disloyal Legislature adjourned
                    without appropriation and his enemies threatened to impeach him for improper use of state authority,
                    but as there happened to be a profit in the manufacture of powder there was no excuse to attempt to
                    carry out the threat.
            It was during this period that John Ingle, Jr., in charge of the 
                        Evansville
                     & 
                        Terre Haute
                     railroad, extending from 
                        Terre Haute
                     to 
                        Evansville
                    , on the Ohio river, practically the head of navigation at that
                    time for war purposes in this section, co-operated in every possible way with Governor Morton in the
                    prosecution of the war.
            His moral character and reputation were without blemish 
                  
                     49 George Irving Reed, Ency. of Biography of
                            Indiana, Vol. 1, 227.
                  
                     50 It is part of the history of Oliver P. Morton that during the
                            darkest days of the Civil War, that Morton had 5,000 men in camp at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , whom he sent by rail to 
                                Kentucky
                             for defense of 
                                Kentucky
                             when the Federal government was unable to furnish them. Foulke, Life of Morton, v. 1, 143.
               
                     in the community in which he spent his life.51 He was liberal in the advocacy and support of all that was uplifting and good in the
                    community. In public charity and benevolence he was liberal to the full limit of his ability, always
                    a leader, and his pastor said of him at his funeral that he always carried with him an order from
                    John Ingle, Jr., for a load of coal for the suffering poor, but he was not permitted to give the
                    name of the donor. He ranked with the best and foremost men of the community. It is doubtful if any
                    other man of his time, the formative period of the growth of 
                        Evansville
                     into a city, was so active and successful in the promotion of public interests and
                    enterprises in so many varying channels of labor and influence as John Ingle, Jr. He left a large
                    family.
            Among his descendants were John Ingle, Jr., Jr., who continued the coal business after his
                    father's death as he had managed it during his father's lifetime as an aid to his
                    father. He was a pioneer in the development of the first fleet of tugs, boats and coal barges at 
                        Evansville
                    , supplying the coal trade especially to steamboats and river crafts. These had a
                    regular landing place for coal at the dump at the mine at the foot of Coal Mine
                    hill, the first hill on the river west of 
                        Evansville
                    ; sometimes boats anchored or were supplied in midstream with barges attached, from
                    which coal was unloaded.
            For many years he was the controlling spirit in the coal trade of 
                        Evansville
                    , following the inspiration of his father. While he was the leader in this trade, he
                    never permitted a raise in prices of coal in 
                        Evansville
                     when an opportunity occurred and other dealers demanded it; this was frequently the
                    fact in river towns when ice or low water suspended river navigation and cut off the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and Green River coal supply temporarily. Especially the poor were
                    cared for in such emergency. He was as a young man, a social leader in the community with a keen
                    relish for humor which enlivened every circle in which he moved.
            President Harrison appointed John Ingle, Jr., Jr., over 
                  
                     51 The obituary of John Ingle, Jr., by George R. Graham, proprietor of
                            Graham's Magazine, who studied law with Ingle in his youth in 
                                Philadelphia
                            , is a delightful tribute to the character of the man. Reed, Ency.
                                Biography Indiana, v. 1, p. 227; 
                        
                                    Evansville
                                 and its Men of Mark, 203; Elliott, History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                , 399; History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                
                      (B. & F.), 78, 154.
               
                     many competitors, supervisor inspector of steam vessels for the
                    seventh federal district, embracing Ohio river and tributaries between 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Memphis
                    , a post which he filled with ability for four years. Later, on account of his health,
                    he was given the choice of a post at the Soo, in charge of the government reservation, where he
                    remained until his death.
            His son, John Ingle (5th), a 
                        New York city
                     lawyer, lives at 
                  Bloomfield, New Jersey
                with his wife, Ann Iglehart Ingle,
                    each of whom, with a son, John Ingle (6th), is descended from a common ancestor, John Ingle, the
                    patriarch of Somersham.
            THE PARRETTS
            
            Rev. Robert Parrett was of English parentage. He was born in 
                        England
                    , February 14, 1791, was properly educated for a curacy and later a benefice in the
                    church of 
                        England
                    , but his liberal trend of mind carried him to the doctrines of John Wesley. With his
                    family he emigrated to the 
                        United States
                     about 1816, and remained for a short time in 
                        New Jersey
                    , and in 1819, having moved to Indiana, he located at or near Blairsville in 
                        Posey county
                    , about ten miles west of Saundersville on the western edge of the British settlement.
                    He began an active promulgation of his religious views and convictions. He also settled to the task
                    of pioneer farmer, for a living, and became an integral part of the English settlement, centering in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    .
            Immediately upon his first arrival in Indiana, John Shrader discovered him, as also the Wheelers, who
                    arrived the same year, and enlisted him in the work of the beginnings of Methodism, which continued
                    until his death in 1860. In 1825 he moved to 
                        Evansville
                     and entered or purchased a farm of 160 acres lying immediately adjoining, on the south
                    and east of, 
                        Evansville
                    , reaching nearly to the point where 
                        Washington
                     avenue, one of the main streets of the city, is now located.
            His work in preaching and in the ministry was more in 
                        Vanderburgh
                     than in 
                        Posey county
                    . He was more distinctively than any other older prominent members of the English
                    settlement connected with the foundation and growth of 
                        Evansville
                    . No man of the first generation in the beginning  of 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     was more prominent in its local affairs, as well as its religious work, than Robert
                    Parrett. He gave attention to business and practical affairs in farming, as well as various means of
                    livelihood. At the time of his death, in 1860, he still retained a large proportion of the land
                    originally acquired by him, so that his descendants received directly the benefit of his foresight
                    and wisdom in his investments in land, and through that alone he left to them a substantial fortune.
            His daughters all married mien of standing and influence in the community at an early day, and no
                    family among the pioneers was more influential and took greater part in the up building of the
                    entire community in every way than the family of Robert Parrett.
            Treating as a single family, the descendants of Robert Parrett, among his sons, especially Judge
                    William F. Parrett, who was for thirty years circuit judge on the circuit, and also congressman from
                    the First district of Indiana, and his daughter, Mary Ann, wife of John S. Hopkins, Sarah, wife of
                    Rev. Reed, Martha, wife of Rufus Roberts of 
                        Warrick county
                    , Jane, wife of Alva Johnson, then of 
                        Warrick county
                    , later of 
                        Evansville
                    , and Eva, wife of Union Bethel of 
                        Newburgh
                    , there was no more influential and greater family in the beginnings of 
                        Evansville
                     in this section, the influence of which still exists, than that of Robert Parrett.
            The Parretts and the Wheelers were men cast in the same mould, highly educated for the time, bringing
                    with them in the wilderness English culture and the stern principles of right, truth and morality,
                    which were taught in the doctrines and life of John Wesley.
            Joseph Wheeler was less devoted to practical affairs, had less opportunity for acquiring wealth, and
                    did not live in 
                        Evansville
                     until his children were married and had moved away from him. His call was to the
                    ministry alone, although he was prevented from entering the traveling ministry as he desired.
            The character of Robert Parrett as the founder of Methodism in 
                        Evansville
                     is properly treated in local history.52
                    
                  
                     52 Riley, History of Walnut Street Church, 19; History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                , B. & F., page 280; Elliott, Bistory,
                        237.
               
                     It is doubtful if any two men of the time of which I speak had
                    greater opportunity for performing, without pay, a duty to the public offered to Father Parrett and
                    Father Wheeler in 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , which was more ably, effectively and cheerfully embraced than was by each of them. The
                    influence of these men upon the religious growth both of the county and of the city cannot be
                    measured; upon these two men more than anyone else, during a long period of time, the community
                    relied implicitly for religious services when they were not able to obtain them in any other way.
                    Robert Parrett was never an office seeker, but in 1858 was elected county commissioner, and held the
                    office at the time of his death.
            Among other of his descendants are the members of the large and influential family of John S. Hopkins
                    and Mary Ann, his wife, among whom were the late John H. Foster, for nine years judge of the
                    superior court of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     and for two terms congressman from the First congressional district, and nephew of the
                    late John W. Foster; Alva J. Rucker, grandson of Jane and Alva Johnson, reelected prosecuting
                    attorney at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on a reform platform; Union Bethel, son of Eva and Union Bethel, who during the late
                    war, as the head of the government operations of telegraph lines in the 
                        United States
                    , was holding a position of national importance.
            Edward O. Hopkins, the youngest son of Mary Ann and John S. Hopkins, was a man of large inherited
                    ability and one of the most prominent railroad men of this section. He was vice-president and
                    general manager of the P. D. & E. railway company, now a part of the 
                        Illinois
                     Central system, and of the L. E. & St. L. Ry. Co.,.now a part of the Southern
                    railway system. He was associated with David J. Mackey in the Mackey system of railroading, and in
                    the panic of 1891 and 1892, when a majority of the railroads of the country went into the hands of a
                    receiver, he was appointed receiver for both of the above named railroads, and administered them as
                    an officer of the federal courts until the properties were sold and became merged in great trunk
                    lines.
            
            THE IGLEHARTS
               53
            
            Levi Igleheart, Sr., (1786–1856) was baptized, reared and married in the Episcopal church
                    of Tidewater, 
                        Maryland
                    , in 1815 came with his wife and small family to 
                  Ohio
                            county, Kentucky
               , where his
                    sons, Asa and Levi, Jr., were born and in 1823 moved to 
                        Warrick county
                    , Indiana, where he settled in the wilderness and made a clearing and built a log cabin,
                    where he lived the true life of the backwoods pioneer farmer. This location was about eight miles
                    from Boonville and a little over twenty miles from the Lincoln farm, which was situated about a mile
                    across the county line in 
                        Spencer county
                    . Here his son, William, and others of his children, were born.
            The Episcopal church then had no representation here outside of 
                        Evansville
                    , and like the elder Jaquess and the younger generation of the Ingles, he joined the
                    Methodist. church and from the beginning the circuit rider established a preaching place on his
                    circuit at this cabin, which continued until a church was built in the neighborhood.
            In 1825 he was appointed magistrate and not infrequently was as ex-officio police officer required to
                    separate the rowdy combatants in public fights, who it is said always accepted his intervention as
                    final, when others were afraid to interfere. Later he was elected lay judge of the circuit court,
                    and before him Pitcher, Breckenridge and others practiced at the Boonville bar, and it is probable
                    that it was during his term that Lincoln was a visitor at the court trials there.
            For many years in later life, after the office of lay judge was abolished in Indiana, Judge Igleheart
                    was elected county commissioner of 
                        Warrick county
                    . In 1849, his oldest son, Asa (1817–1887), after teaching school in the
                    country while studying law and farming by proxy, moved to 
                        Evansville
                    , and at the age of thirty-one began the practice of law with 
                  
                     53 The head of the Indiana branch of this family, Levi Igleheart, Sr.,
                            spelled his name with an e in the last syllable, while various branches of the same family
                            from an early period omitted that letter.
                  
                     54 Robert Smith, who later for many terms was elected mayor of
                                    
                        St. Paul, Minnesota
                     , but who was born and reared in 
                                Warrick county
                            , Indiana, knew him during this period (after Ratliff Boone had moved to 
                                Missouri
                             in 1839) and referred to Levi Igleheart, Sr., as the leading man in 
                                Warrick county
                            .
               
                     John Ingle, Sr., and Horatio Q. Wheeler; the latter a few years
                    later became recognized as father of the public schools of 
                        Evansville
                    .
            He was appointed in 1852 common pleas judge to fill a vacancy, and later, without opposition, elected
                    to fill a full term and traveled the circuit as judge in a number of counties. He practiced law till
                    about the time of his death. References to his life and character are found in various local and
                    state histories. Judge Walter Q. Gresham, before whom as federal judge in Indiana Judge Iglehart
                    practiced with the leaders of the Indiana bar, after his death said that he was the greatest lawyer
                    the state of Indiana had produced.
            At the time of Judge Iglehart's funeral the late John Gilbert Shanklin, former secretary of
                    state of Indiana, editor of the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Courier, a man of high culture, one of the ablest men born in 
                        Evansville
                    , stated that he was the leading citizen of 
                        Evansville
                    . The 
                        Evansville
                     bar association, in its resolutions said of him: 
                        For twenty-five years he was the leader of a bar made famous by the names of Blythe, Jones,
                            Chandler, Baker, Law and others dead and living. In the history of Indiana, Asa Iglehart
                            will always rank with Willard, Judah, Morton and Hendricks as one of her great men.55
                  
                    
                
            In 1842 he married Ann Cowle, niece of John Ingle, of Saundersville, and stepdaughter of Mark
                    Wheeler.
            His oldest son, Rev. Ferdinand Cowle Iglehart, D.D., was born in 1845 in 
                        Warrick county
                    , like his father in a log cabin in the wilderness. He was the first graduate of the 
                        Evansville
                     high school, graduated at Asbury (DePauw) university, and began the active work of a
                    Methodist minister, and as such from the beginning moved steadily upward until he filled many
                    positions of prominence in the Methodist ministry. He rapidly advanced in the ministry of the M. E.
                    church and was soon called to the pastorate of Trinity church of this city, the leading church of
                    that denomination in 
                  
                     55
                            Bench and Bar of Indiana, 393; Courts and Lawyers of
                            Indiana, Vol. 1, 336, Vol. 3, 1145; Dunn, Indiana and Indianians,
                            Vol. 5, pp. 1986–7; George Irving Reed, Encyclopedia of Biography of
                                Indiana, 36; 
                        
                                    Evansville
                                 and its Men of Mark, 54; Elliott, History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                , 144, 458; History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                
                      (B. & F. 1889), 358. The last named volume contains the best
                            estimate of Judge Igleheart's character.
               
                     southern Indiana, where he served the full term and was soon
                    called to the great eastern pulpits of his church. For more than twenty years until he was sixty
                    years old he filled with great success for the full terms the great pulpits of the Methodist church
                    in and around 
                        New York city
                    . His field of labor was not entirely confined to the pulpits and pastorate of the great
                    churches. He was recognized as a leader in all great public moral questions and reforms by leaders
                    of churches of all denominations and he was at all times prominent in public addresses of every kind
                    in 
                        New York
                     and elsewhere. His mental training in the schools and college was continually developed
                    and supplemented by intense application and labor far beyond that of the ordinarily successful man,
                    the result of which is evidenced in a life work of great success covering a large field as preacher,
                    pastor, lecturer, temperance reformer and author. He published a book entitled The
                        Speaking Oak, which passed through several editions. His work King Alcohol
                        Dethroned contains the most complete summary of facts on the temperance question in
                    existence, according to the highest authority. His latest work, Theodore Roosevelt, the
                        Man as I Knew Him, on account of the strong sympathy between the two men as reformers in 
                        New York city
                     and their resulting personal acquaintance of the most intimate nature, contains a mass
                    of interesting material relating to Roosevelt's inner life, including Roosevelt's
                    inner thoughts on religion and other subjects, which competent critics say is not found in the work
                    of any other of his biographies; the work has had a large sale and has been used for readings in the
                    public schools of 
                        Brooklyn
                    .
            For many years he was a platform lecturer, wrote for the magazines, and was known among the ministers
                    and laymen of the Methodist church in the country as a leading man in its ministry. For thirteen
                    years he has been and is now on the editorial staff of the Christian Herald, which
                    is the most widely circulated religious newspaper in America, if not in the world; to him has been
                    entrusted great responsibility. At the age of sixty years Dr. Iglehart retired from the active
                    pastorate to fill the place of superintendent of the Anti-Saloon 
                    League of greater 
                        New York
                    , to which cause he devoted ten years of his life.
            In this field when the cause was poor and supported largely by collections in the churches, Dr.
                    Iglehart devoted ten years of his life to the success of the temperance cause, preached twice every
                    Sunday, visited churches of all denominations, carrying in every Monday morning the money he had
                    collected on Sunday to maintain the work, and it is doubtful if any other man contributed more to
                    its success. The following incident shows his power as a platform orator and debater. He was sent as
                    one of the committee on temperance by the New York M. E. conference to attend the meeting of the
                    temperance committee of the 
                        New York
                     legislature held in a large hall full of people in 
                        Albany
                    , where Mr. Jerome, the celebrated 
                        New York
                     lawyer, addressed the legislative committee in behalf of the liquor interests. In his
                    address Mr. Jerome quoted from a printed manual given him by his clients to the effect that Abraham
                    Lincoln was liberal in his views on temperance. Dr. Iglehart, who had served a term as pastor at 
                        Bloomington
                    , 111., and knew Lincoln's history, felt that the quotation was misleading and
                    incorrect, and sent a note to the chairman of the meeting, asking three minutes' time in
                    which to answer Mr. Jerome. This was given him, when he quoted Lincoln's words directly
                    contradictory to those claimed by the liquor interests, and denounced the methods of those interests
                    with all his energy and power. There were a large number of temperance people in the hall and it is
                    needless to add that this short address took the audience by storm. Standing in the rear of the
                    hall, the leaders of the Anti-Saloon league witnessed this incident, and then declared that this
                    speaker ought to devote his life to the work. Soon afterward he accepted the position upon terms
                    dictated by himself. Dr. Iglehart resides at Dobbs Ferry on the Hudson.
            Dr. Iglehart's oldest son, David Stewart Iglehart of 
                        New York city
                    , was for many years the resident representative in South America of William R. Grace
                    & Co., a concern with twenty steamships, with a million dollar headquarters in 
                        New York city
                     with 800 employees, and 150 branch houses, reaching every capital in the world, with
                    25,000 employees. He  entered the employment of this firm in 1895
                    as an office-boy, after graduating in 
                        Columbia
                     university, starting at the bottom and rose to the top. He won his success in the
                    practical field as manager of the Grace House in 
                  Lima, Peru
               , and 
                        Valparaiso
                    , Chili, and became a director, one of the vice-presidents, and partner in the house,
                    which position he now holds.
            Dr. Iglehart's second son, Dr. Edwin Taylor Iglehart, is and has for fourteen years been a
                    missionary in 
                        Japan
                     under the auspices of the Missionary society of the Methodist Episcopal church. He is
                    associate dean of the Aoyama Gakuin college in 
                        Tokyo
                    , one of the leading colleges of 
                        Japan
                    . He received his A.B. from 
                        Columbia
                     university, and his doctorate of sacred theology from 
                        Syracuse
                     university. He is the editor of the Annual book published by all of the Protestant
                    churches of the Japanese empire, which is regarded as a publication of importance. He is said by
                    critics to have a most excellent knowledge of the Japanese language, and speaks it with correctness
                    equal to any American in 
                        Japan
                    . He has been offered and declined appointments to pulpits as pastor and preacher in the 
                        United States
                    , which are filled only by men of first-class talent.
            Rev. Charles Wheeler Iglehart, the youngest son of Dr. F. C. Iglehart, is also a missionary in 
                        Japan
                     under the appointment of the M. E. missionary society. His work is at the old famed
                    city of Sendai, preaching and organizing churches. He was for two years the successful manager of
                    the publishing house for the Methodist church of the Empire of 
                        Japan
                    . He is a graduate of 
                        Columbia
                     university and of Drew Theological seminary, and a post-graduate at the University of
                            
                  Glasgow, Scotland
               , and is an excellent preacher and is much loved for his
                    character and service. Both Edwin and Charles had Y.M.C.A. war service in Siberia.
            In 1856, on the death of the senior Igleheart, his youngest son, William, came to 
                        Evansville
                    , and three brothers, Asa, Levi and William, as Igleheart Brothers, built and operated a
                    large brick mill for the period, corner of Locust street and the Canal in 
                        Evansville
                    , which had not yet succumbed to the effect of the deadly railroad parallel.
            Upon the death of Asa in 1887, his interest was acquired  by
                    representatives of the other interests in the firm, and the industry has grown until under the same
                    name as a corporation it has become one of the great and successful industries of 
                        Evansville
                    .
            Levi Igleheart, Jr., was early known in 
                        New Orleans
                     before the Civil war and in 
                        New York
                    , as well as in 
                        Nashville
                    , a great flour center, as a man of rare ability, genius and integrity in business.56 In like manner, William Igleheart was a man of great force of character, and
                    aided in placing the credit of the house for integrity on the highest plane.57
            
            William Igleheart, Jr., deceased, was a newspaper man of reputation and success, who conducted the
                        Salt Lake
                    Herald for many years to final and general success, from a losing venture, as it
                    was, when he began work on it. He was intimately associated with McCutcheon and George Ade as
                    newspaper reporters in 
                        Chicago
                    .
            Igleheart Brothers, during the European war, were large exporters under government direction in
                    supplying the armies and people of Europe with flour. The present management is by the three sons of
                    Levi, Jr., Leslie, Addison and John, each of whom has a son educated, as well as trained to special
                    departments of and active in the work.
            Levi, Jr., married Susan, and William married Mary, daughters of John Ingle of Saundersville, who
                    were cousins to the wife of Asa. Harriett, the oldest daughter of Levi Igleheart, Sr., married John
                    Erskine of the English settlement in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , and their daughter, Mary Erskine, married Rev. Albion Fellows, who died in 1865, while
                    pastor of Locust Street during the building of Trinity church.
            Daughters of Albion and Mary Fellows are Annie Fellows Johnston, the celebrated authoress of many
                    works, including children's series, whose books are read throughout the English speaking
                    world, and Albion Fellows Bacon, recognized as one of the leading women of Indiana, author of the
                    Indiana Housing Reform law, and of national reputation as well known in housing and other reforms.
                    Her first experience in housing reform is found in her work, Beauty from
                    
                  
                     56 Elliott, History, 460.
                  
                     57
                            Id. 462.
               
                    
                    Ashes, which attracted much attention Their joint volume of poems, Songs YSame, 1897, contains poems of merit although they represent but a small number of
                    their poems, most of which have been written since then and published in the magazines and
                    newspapers. Both of these authors have been recognized in standard reference books in American
                    literature. In Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, is a sketch of both of these women
                    with an excellent portrait of Albion Fellows Bacon.60 The same work contains in
                    full a published sketch of Annie Fellows Johnston written by her sister, Albion Fellows Bacon, in
                    which the early life of the former is charmingly told and the brilliancy of the latter as a writer
                        appears.61
            
            Martha, daughter of John and Harriett Iglehart Erskine, married William P. Hargrave, captain during
                    the Civil war, and later judge in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , son of the distinguished circuit rider, Richard Hargrave, who served the 
                        Evansville
                     circuit in 1825.
            Another son, John Hargrave, married Charlotte, daughter of John and Harriett Iglehart Erskine, and
                    who left descendants.
            James, son of John and Harriett Erskine, married Sarah Cowle, granddaughter of
                    ——— Cowle Wheeler, and his brother, Levi Erskine, left descendants,
                    among whom are Wilbur Erskine, president of the 
                        Evansville
                     chamber of commerce for 1918 and proprietor of one of the largest flouring mills in the
                    state of Indiana, located in 
                        Evansville
                    ; Charles Erskine, son of Wilbur, was elected state senator from 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     to the legislature of Indiana for the years 1916–20.
            Eleanor, daughter of Levi Igleheart, Sr., married Amos Wight of 
                        Warrick county
                    , whose daughter, Melissa, married Rev. John W. Webb, who was for a term pastor of Ingle
                    Street M. E. church, 
                        Evansville
                    , and later member of the 
                        New York
                     conference and presiding elder of the 
                        Syracuse
                     district.
            
               
                  54 V. 2, 779–80.
               
                  61 Id. Vol. 5, pp. 2184–5 and 6.
            
            
            JUDGE ELISHA EMBREE
            
            One of the active members of the Methodist Episcopal church, in its early struggles at 
                        Princeton
                    , was Elisha Embree. Mr. Embree was born in 
                  Lincoln
                            county, Kentucky
               , September 28,
                    1801. He was the son of Joshua and Elizabeth Embree. The family moved to 
                        Gibson county
                    , Indiana, in 1811, and settled on land near the present site of 
                        Princeton
                    . His father died in 1813, leaving his widow and five children in straitened
                    circumstances.
            The subject of this sketch did not attend school at all until he was seventeen or eighteen years old,
                    and there is a tradition that at one time he was in a class with a girl of six or seven, and it was
                    a struggle between them as to which should keep ahead. He was entirely self-educated. He read law in
                    the office of Judge Samuel Hall, and was admitted to the bar in 1825. In 1833 he was elected to the
                    state senate, and during his service in that body he stood almost alone in opposition to the wild
                    internal improvement schemes of that period, which so nearly bankrupted the state. He became judge
                    of the Fourth judicial circuit in 1835, as the successor of Judge Hall, who had resigned. He was
                    reelected to the full term in 1838. He served ten years in all. In 1847 he was elected to congress,
                    defeating Robert Dale Owen. He was the only whig ever elected from the district. During his service
                    at 
                        Washington
                     he became acquainted with Abraham Lincoln, and lived in the same house with him. The
                    friendship formed at that time continued until the death of Judge Embree. The family have now
                    letters written to the Judge by Lincoln.
            Judge Embree was a strong union man. He gave three sons, all he had, to the Union army, and went
                    frequently to the front, devoting his time and energies to the service of the sick and wounded.
                    Exposures in this service are thought to have caused his death, which occurred on the 28th day of
                    February, 1863. Judge Embree became a member of the Methodist Episcopal church at an early day, and
                    took a very active part in support of the organization. For many years he was the superintendent of
                    the Sunday school, and on the occasion of his funeral the entire body of children marched  in the procession and cast flowers into his grave. A sketch of the life
                    of Judge Embree, prepared by the Rev. T. H. Willis, and published in the History of 
                            Gibson County
                        , Indiana, issued by James T. Tartt & Company, Edwardsville, 
                        Illinois
                    , in 1884, contains this passage: 
                        The first Methodist Episcopal church was built in 
                                Princeton
                             about 1838. One of the active members in raising subscriptions to build it was
                            Judge Elisha Embree. He said, "They have been driven from private dwellings, and
                            from the jail, and from the courthouse," and he proposed now that they build a
                            house of their own. The judge was raised under the influence of
                            "Universalism." After his conversion, he examined carefully the various
                            churches, their creeds, confessions of faith, polity, etc., and came to the conclusion that
                            the Methodist Episcopal church came the nearest to his idea of a Bible church, and
                            prophesied that it would become the church, for the conversion of the world. He accordingly
                            united with it, remaining a most earnest and efficient worker until his death.
                    
                
            Holliday says of him:02
                    
                        Hon. Elisha Embree, for some time circuit judge in the southern end of the state, and for one
                            term a representative of his district in congress, carried with him, on the bench and into
                            the halls of national legislation the influence of a noble christian character.
                    
                
            He married a daughter of Major David Robb,63 and among his descendants is Mr.
                    Lucius Embree of 
                        Princeton
                    , a prominent member of the Indiana bar; Andrew Lewis and Willis Howe of 
                        Princeton
                    , leading men in southern Indiana in pioneer days, were prominent members of the M. E.
                    church.
            
               
                  62
                        Indiana Methodism, 243.
               
                  63 Tarkington, Autobiography, 106.
            
            (To be continued)
         
         
         
            The Savage Allies of the Northwest
            (Paper Two): ANIMALS
                    AND GEOGRAPHICAL FEATURES
                    OF
                    THE NORTHWEST DECADENCE
                    OF
                    THE TRIBES
            
            By ELMORE BARCE
            
            Perhaps no country ever held forth greater allurement to savage huntsmen than the old territory of
                    the northwest. Its rivers and lakes teemed with edible fish; its great forests abounded with deer,
                    elk, bears and raccoons; its vast plains and prairies were filled with herds of buffalo that existed
                    up almost to the close of the eighteenth century; every swamp and morass was filled with countless
                    thousands of geese, ducks, swan and cranes, and rodents like the beaver and other animals furnished
                    the red man with the warmest of raiment in the coldest winter. To give an idea of the vast wealth of
                    this domain in fur-bearing animals alone, it may be taken into account that in the year 1818 the
                    American Fur Company, under the control of John Jacob Astor, with its headquarters at Mackinaw, had
                    in its employ about four hundred clerks and traders, together with about two thousand
                    French-Canadian voyageurs, who roamed all the rivers and lakes of the Indian country from the
                    British dominions on the north, to as far west as the Missouri river.1 The "outfits" of this company had trading posts on the 
                        Illinois
                    , and all its tributaries; on the Muskegon, Grand, 
                        Kalamazoo
                     and other rivers in 
                        Michigan
                    ; on the line of the old Pottawatomi trail from the 
                        Wabash
                     country to Post 
                        Chicago
                    , and in the neighborhood of the Beaver lake regions in northern
                    Indiana, and at many other points. The furs handled by them consisted of those of the marten
                    (sable), mink, musk-rat, raccoon, lynx, wildcat, fox, wolverine, badger, otter, beaver, bears and
                        deer,2 of which the most valuable were those of the silver-gray fox and the
                    marten. The value of these furs mounted into the hundreds of thousands of dollars and they were all
                    consigned to 
                        New York
                    . To one who reads the interesting 
                  
                     1
                            Autobiography of Gurdon S. Hubbard, 15, 16, 20.
                  
                     2
                            Autobiography of Gurdon S. Hubbard, 17.
               
                     sketches of Gurdon S. Hubbard relating to what may be termed as
                    the finale or closing days of the fur trade of the old northwest, the vision of what this trade
                    amounted to in the days of the old French and English traders at 
                  Montreal, Mackinaw
                and 
                        Detroit
                    , before the country had been 
                  INDIAN TRIBES OF THE NORTHWEST
                partially exhausted of its most valuable peltries, becomes more clearly strikingly
                    apparent. 
                        Detroit
                     commanded all the valuable beaver country of northern 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, and southern 
                        Michigan
                    , and of the rivers entering lakes Erie and
                    Huron. The trade coming from the Cuyahoga, the Sandusky, the tributaries of the
                    Miami, and Scioto, the 
                        Wabash
                     and the Maumee, all centered here. The French traders did  a vast and flourishing business with the savages, trading them brandy,
                    guns, ammunition, blankets, vermilion and worthless trinkets for furs of the highest value. The
                    significance of the old trading posts at Miamitown (
                        Fort Wayne
                    ), Petit Piconne (
                        Tippecanoe
                    ),3 Ouiatenon,4 and Vin-cennes, as feeders for
                    this 
                        Detroit
                     market by way of the Wabash and Maumee
                    valleys, is also made plain. A glimpse of the activities at Miamitown (
                        Fort Wayne
                    ) in, the winter of 1789–1790, while it was still under the domination of the
                    British, shows the Miamis, Shawnees and Potawatomi coming in with otter, beaver, bear skins and
                    other peltry,5 the presence of a lot of unscrupulous, cheating French traders6 who were generally drunk when assembled together, and who took every advantage
                    of each other7 and the destitute savages with whom they were trading. At that
                    time French half-breeds and traders of the names of Jean Cannehous, Jacque Dumay, Jean Coustan and
                    others were trading with the Indians at Petit Piconne8 or 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and all this trade was routed through by way of the 
                        Wabash
                    , the portage at Miamitown, and the Maumee, to 
                        Detroit
                    . The traders at Ouiatenon, who undoubtedly enjoyed the advantage of the
                        Beaver lake trade, by way of the Potawatomi trail to the north, were also
                    in direct communication with the merchants of 
                        Detroit
                    , and depended upon them.9 It is interesting to observe in passing,
                    that the rendezvous of the French traders at the Petit Piconne (termed by Gen. Charles Scott as
                    Keth-tip-e-ca-nunk), was broken up by a detachment of 
                        Kentucky
                     mounted volunteers under Gen. James Wilkinson, in the summer of 1791, and utterly
                    destroyed. One who accompanied the expedition stated that there were then one hundred and twenty
                    houses at this place, eighty of which were shingled; that the best houses belonged to the French
                    traders, and that the gardens and improvements around the place 
                  
                     3 A narrative of Life on the Old Frontier, Hay's Journal, 
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Historical Society, 1914, pages 230–231 note.
                  
                     4 Esarey, History of Indiana, 20–21.
                  
                     5 A Narrative of Life on the Old Frontier, Hay's Journal, 
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Historical Society, 1914. Pages 228, 241, 244, 246.
                  
                     6
                            .Id. 224.
                  
                     7.Id. 237.
                  
                     8.Id. 237.
                  
                     9.Dillon, History of Indiana, I, 286.
               
                     were delightful; that there was a tavern located there, with
                    cellars, a bar, and public and private rooms.10
            
            Of all the fur-bearers of the northwest, the most interesting were the beavers. How much these
                    industrious gnawers had to do with the French and Indian war, and the rivalry between 
                        England
                     and 
                        France
                     for the control of their domain north of the 
                        Ohio
                    , is not generally appreciated. Had it not been for the lucrative trade in beaver skins, 
                        England
                     would not have so long held the military posts in the northwest after the Revolution.
                    The marshes, lakes, rivers and small streams of northern 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, and of the whole of 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , abounded with the houses and habitations of these workers. Behind them they have left
                    the names of creeks, towns, townships and even counties. The beaver lake region of northern Indiana
                    has a Beaver "lake", a Beaver "township", a
                    Beaver "creek", a Beaver "city", and a Beaverville to its
                    credit. The history of 
                        Vigo
                     and 
                        Parke counties
                    , Indiana, by Beckwith, chapter 20, at page 208, recites that beavers existed along all
                    the small lakes and lesser river courses in northern Indiana. They were plentiful in Dekalb,11 Marshall,12
                    
                        Elkhart
                    ,13 Cass,14 White15 and 
                        Steuben
                    .16 It is well known that their dams existed in large numbers in 
                        Newton
                     and 
                        Jasper
                    , and in practically all the Indiana counties north of the Wabash
                    river. So numerous were these animals that even the most intelligent among the early
                    savages believed that the great flocks of geese in the fall in many instances turned into beavers,
                    and for proof of the foundation for this belief, they pointed to the palmated hind feet.17 In no other way could they account for their seemingly inexhaustible supply.
                    Most of the small rivers and streams were very low in the summer season. To provide against this
                    extremity, and to promote both their food supply and their safety, the beavers constructed their
                    dams. The 
                  
                     10 James R. Albach, Annals of the West, 569.
                  
                     11
                            History 
                                    DeKalb County
                                
                     , Ind., B. F. Bowen, 139–140.
                  
                     12
                            
                        
                                    Marshall County
                                 History, McDonald, I, 160.
                  
                     13
                            Standard History of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                
                     , Abraham E. Weaver, I, 38–39.
                  
                     14
                            
                        
                                    Cass County
                                 History, John Powell, I, 481
                  
                     15
                            White County History, W. H. Hammelle, I, 40.
                  
                     16
                            
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Publication of 
                                    Steuben County
                                
                     , Indiana, 264.
                  
                     17
                            Remarkable Occurrences in the Life and Travels of Colonel James Smith, 
                                Lexington
                            , 1799. Republished by Clarke & Co., 57–58.
               
                     convexity of these structures pointed upstream in order to give
                    added strength. By this method the water was raised over the entrances to their subterraneous
                    lodging places under the banks, and the total water area extended to take in additional roots, trees
                    and saplings for their subsistence.18 The beaver, being a slow mover upon the
                    land, often fell prey to the wolves, who were their greatest enemies. To the Indians, the beaver not
                    only furnished furs and clothing, but in the winter season he also supplied them with flesh to eat.
                    Col. James Smith describes the meat as being a "delicious fare."19 When the Indians found the beavers in their houses they first broke up all the thin ice
                    around about, and then by breaking into the houses, drove the beavers into the water. Being soon
                    forced to come to the surface to take the air, the Indians commonly reached in and caught them by
                    the hind legs, dragged them out on the ice and tomahawked them.20 Great numbers
                    of them were also caught in traps.
            One of the great curses of the fur trade to the Indians, however, was the speedy extermination of
                    thir food supply. The Indian traders offered a blanket in place of the robes and furs formerly made
                    and used by the savages, and what was still more destructive, constantly held before their eyes the
                    allurement of whiskey and brandy. To procure these, the red men destroyed the herds of buffalo east
                    of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , despoiled the lakes and rivers of their swarms of beaver and otter, and suddenly found
                    themselves both hungry and dependent in a land that formerly yielded an abundance of everything.
            No story of the northwest would be complete without mention of the buffalo, or wild cow of America.
                    In the seventeenth and the early part of the eighteenth centuries the buffalo had ranged as far east
                    as western 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and as far south as 
                        Virginia
                    , the Carolinas and 
                        Georgia
                    .21 Father Marquette, in his explorations, declared that the
                    prairies along the Illinois river were "covered with
                    buffaloes."
            
               
                  18
                        Remarkable Occurrences, etc., 59–60.
               
                  19
                        Id, 68.
               
                  20
                        Id. 60–61.
               
                  21 The Extermination of the American Bison, Wm. T. Hornaday, in Annual Report of Smithsonian Institution, 1887, Part 2, page 387.
            
            
            
                    Father Hennepin, in writing of northern 
                            Illinois
                        , between 
                            Chicago
                         and the Illinois river, asserted that, "There must be
                        an innumerable quantity of wild bulls in that country, since the earth is covered with their
                            horns.∗ ∗ ∗ They follow one another, so
                        that you may see a drove of them for above a league together. Their ways are beaten, as our
                        great roads, and no herb grows therein."22
               
                
            Of the presence of large numbers of buffalo, that resorted to the salty licks of 
                        Kentucky
                    , we have frequent mention by both Marshall and 
                        Butler
                    , the early historians of that state. In the year 1755, Col. James Smith mentions the
                    killing of several buffalo by the Indians at a lick in 
                        Ohio
                    , somewhere between the Muskingum, the 
                        Ohio
                     and the Scioto. At this lick the Indians made about a half bushel of salt in their
                    brass kettles. He asserts that about this lick there were clear, open woods, and that there were
                    great roads leading to the same made by the buffalo, that appeared like wagon roads.23 The wild cattle had evidently been attracted thither by the mineral salts in the water.
                    In the early morning of June 13, 1765, George Croghan, an Indian agent of William Johnson, coming
                    into view of some of the fine large meadows bordering the western banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    , saw in the distance herds of buffalo eating the grass, and described the land as
                    filled with buffalo, deer and bears in "great plenty".24 On
                    the eighteenth and nineteenth of the same month, he traveled through what he termed as a
                    "prodigious large meadow, called the Pyankeshaw's Hunting Ground", and
                    described it as well watered and full of buffalo, deer, bears and all kinds of wild game.25 He was still in the lower 
                        Wabash
                     region. On the twentieth and twenty-first of June he was traveling north along the 
                        Wabash
                     in the vicinity of the Vermilion river, and states that game
                    existed plentifully, and that one could kill in a half hour as much as was needed.26 He spoke, evidently, of the large variety of game before mentioned. The whole of the grand
                    prairie of 
                        Illinois
                    , filled with an abundant growth of the richest grasses, and all the savannas north of
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     in Indiana, that really constituted an extension 
                  
                     22
                            Id., 388.
                  
                     23
                            Remarkable Occurrences, 21.
                  
                     24 Mann Butler, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 
                                Louisville
                            , 1834. Appendix, 371.
                  
                     25
                            Id., 372.
                  
                     26
                            Id., 372.
               
                     of this grand prairie, were particularly suited to the range of
                    the wild herds, and were the last grounds deserted by them previous to their withdrawal west, and
                    across the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            The economical value of the herds of buffalo to the Indian tribes of the northwest may be gathered
                    from the uses to which they were afterwards put by the tribes of the western plains.
            
                    The body of the buffalo yielded fresh meat, of which thousands of tons were consumed; dried meat,
                        prepared in summer for winter use; pemmican (also prepared in summer) of meat, fat, and berries;
                        tallow, made up into large balls or sacks, and kept in store; marrow, preserved in bladders; and
                        tongues; dried and smoked, and eaten as a delicacy.
                    The skin of the buffalo yielded a robe, dressed with the hair on, for clothing and bedding; a
                        hide, dressed without the hair, which made a tepee cover, when a number were sewn together;
                        boats, when sewn together in the green state, over a wooden frame work; shields, from the
                        thickest portions, as rawhide; ropes, made up as rawhide; clothing of many kinds; bags for use
                        in traveling; coffins, or winding sheets for the dead, etc.
                    Other portions utilized were sinews, which furnished fibre for ropes, thread, bow-strings,
                        snow-shoe webs, etc.; hair, which was sometimes made into belts and ornaments; "buffalo
                        chips" which formed a valuable and highly prized fuel; bones, from which many articles
                        of use and ornament were made; horns, which were made into spoons, drinking vessels, etc.27
               
                
            The Rev. John Heckewelder, in speaking of the skill of the Delawares of 
                        Ohio
                     in dressing and curing buffalo hides, in the latter part of the eighteenth century,
                    says that they cured them so that they became quite soft and supple, and so that they would last for
                    many years without wearing out. They also made beaver and raccoon skin blankets that were
                    "pliant, warm and durable", setting the fur or hair all the same way so as to shed
                        water.28
            
            Taking into consideration the well-known fact that the prairies of 
                        Illinois
                     and northern Indiana were filled with herds of buffalo in the middle of the eighteenth
                    century, and 
                  
                     27 The extermination of the American Bison, Wm. T. Hornaday, A nnual Report of Smithsonian Institution, 1887, Part 2, pages
                            437–438.
                  
                     28 Rev. John Heckewelder, An Account of the History,
                                Manners and Customs of the Indian Nations, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1819, 202.
               
                     that about this time the tribes of the Sacs and Foxes,
                    Kicka-poos, and Potawatomi descended from the north and took possession of this buffalo country, we
                    are able to understand how these well nourished, prolific and virile horse tribes, more especially
                    the Potawatomi, were able to push back and finally seize and occupy a large part of the country of
                    the Miamis.
            All at once, and somewhere between the years 1780 and 1790, the buffalo east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , suddenly disappeared. The account given by Shaubena, a famous Potawatomi chief of
                    northern 
                        Illinois
                    , is interesting. He says that the trade in buffalo robes east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     ceased in about the year 1790; that when a youth he joined in the chase of buffalo on
                    the prairies, but while he was still young they all disappeared from the country.
            
                    A big snow, about five feet deep, fell, and froze so hard on the top that people walked on it,
                        causing the buffalo to perish by starvation. Next spring, a few buffalo, poor and haggard in
                        appearance, were seen going westward, and as they approached the carcasses of dead ones, which
                        were lying here and there on the prairie, they would stop, commence pawing and lowing, then
                        start off again in a lope for the west.29
               
                
            Whatever credence may be given to the above tale, it is interesting to observe that the Rev. John
                    Heckewelder relates, that the winter of the year 1784 was of such intense cold, as that all the
                    rivers and creeks within the present limits of the state of 
                        Michigan
                    , and aiso Lake St. Clair, became covered with a coat of ice, that
                    from day to day became thicker and stronger; that this intense freezing was followed by a snow fall
                    of two feet in depth, followed a few days later by another snow of three feet, so that the whole
                    surface of the country was covered to a level of about five feet; that from the beginning of January
                    until about the first of March, there were not more than four clear days; that during that time the
                    snow became settled, and a hard crust formed on the top, so that persons could walk upon it.30 Barring a discrepancy in dates, the winter referred to by the chief 
                  
                     29 M. Matson, Memories of Shaubena, 
                                Chicago
                            , 1878, 34–35.
                  
                     30 John Heckewelder, Narrative of the Mission of the
                                United Brethren.
                            
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1820, 352, 355–356.
               
                     Shaubena and the missionary Heckewelder, were probably the same.
                    The prevalence of such a depth of snow for such an extended time would certainly lead to the
                    starvation of thousands of these animals. William T. Hornaday, of the Smithsonian Institution, says:
                        
                        When the snowfall was unusually heavy, and lay for a long time on the ground, the buffalo was
                            forced to fast for days together, and sometimes even weeks. If a warm day came, and thawed
                            the upper surface of the snow, sufficiently for succeeding cold to freeze it into a crust,
                            the outlook for the bison began to be serious. A man can travel over a crust through which
                            the hoofs of a ponderous bison cut like chisels and leave him floundering belly-deep. It was
                            at such times that the Indians hunted him on snow-shoes, and drove their spears into his
                            vitals as he wallowed helplessly in the drifts. Then the wolves grew fat upon the victims
                            which they, also, slaughtered without effort31
                  
                    
                
            The extinction of this valuable animal east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     may more reasonably be ascribed to a combination of causes. First, the careless
                    slaughter of thousands of them by the Potawatomi, Kickapoos and Sacs and Foxes, for their hides
                    alone, in order to procure whiskey from the reckless French fur traders. Second, the useless
                    slaughter of other thousands of them under the excitement of the chase, regardless of any idea of
                    conserving the herds. Third, the slaughter of great numbers by ever increasing bands of white
                    hunters. If after the herds had been thus depleted by years of reckless killing, the great snow came
                    that covered the prairies with a solid crust for long weeks and months, and during this time other
                    thousands fell victims to starvation, wolves, and Indians upon snow-shoes, the remnants of the herds
                    that remained in the spring may well have fled beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                     in quest of a more temperate climate.
            However that may be, the opening of the nineteenth century saw the buffalo practically extinguished
                    in the territory of the northwest. A few scattered animals may have remained here and there upon the
                    prairies, but the old herds whose progenitors were seen by Croghan were forever gone. In the month
                    of December, 1799, Judge Jacob Burnet was traveling overland on horseback from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    
                  
                     31 The extermination of the American Bison, 423.
               
                     on professional business, and while at some point north and west
                    of the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     he and his companions surprised a small herd of eight or ten buffaloes, that were
                    seeking shelter behind the top of a fallen beech tree on the line of an old
                    "trace", during a snow storm.32 This is one of the last
                    authentic accounts given of any buffaloes in Indiana. On August 18th and August 27th, 1804, Governor
                    William Henry Harrison, as Indian agent for the 
                        United States
                     government, bought a large tract of land in southern Indiana, between the
                        Wabash and Ohio rivers, from the 
                        Delaware
                     and Piankeshaw tribes. The right to make this purchase was disputed by Captain William
                    Wells, the Indian agent at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and by the Little Turtle claiming to represent the Miamis, and it was asserted among
                    other things, that the lands bought were frequented as a hunting ground by both the Miamis and
                    Potawatomi, and that thej! went there to hunt buffaloes. The truth of this statement was denied by
                    Governor Harrison, who said that not an animal of that kind "had been seen within that
                    tract for several years."33 It seems probable, then, that the account
                    given by Shaubena that all traffic in buffalo robes ceased by the year 1790 is true; that at the
                    opening of the nineteenth century the herds in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     had entirely disappeared, and that if a few stragglers were still left in the remote
                    regions of the grand prairie, that they were of no commercial value whatever to the tribes east of
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            Traces of the old buffalo wallows are occasionally met with even to this day. The great animals
                    "rolled successively in the same hole, and each thus carried away a coat of mud,"
                    which baking in the sun, served to protect them against the great swarm of flies, gnats and insects
                    that infested the marshes and prairies of that early time. One of these wallows, in a perfect state
                    of preservation, exists in the northwest quarter of section thirty, in township twenty-five north,
                    range six west, in 
                        Benton county
                    , Indiana. It is several yards in diameter, hollowed out to a depth of four or five
                    feet, and its periphery is almost an exact circle. It 
                  
                     31 Burnett, Notes on the Northwestern Territory, 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1847, 72.
                  
                     33 Letter by Wm. H. Harrison to Secretary of War, March 3rd, 1805,
                            Harrison Letters, 109 to 123, inclusive, State University.
               
                     is situate on rather a high, springy knoll, commanding a view of
                    the surrounding plain for several miles. A great number of Indian arrow heads have been picked up in
                    the immediate vicinity, showing that the Indians had previously resorted thither in search of game.
            The geographical features of the northwest were such that all points in the interior were easily
                    accessible to the early voyageurs and French fur traders. It was bounded on the north and northeast
                    by the chain of the Great Lakes, on the south by the 
                        Ohio
                    , and on the west by the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The heads of the rivers and streams that flowed into these great watercourses and
                    lakes were connected by short portages, so that the Indian trapper or hunter could carry his canoe
                    for a few miles and pass from the waters that led to Lake Michigan or
                        Lake Erie, into the streams that fed the 
                        Mississippi
                     or the 
                        Ohio
                    . Take, for instance, the rivers within the present limits of the state of 
                        Ohio
                    . The headwaters of the Muskingum and its tributaries interlocked with those of the
                    Cuyahoga; the headwaters of the Scioto with those of the Sandusky; the headwaters of the Great Miami
                    with those of the 
                        Wabash
                     and the St. Marys. In northern Indiana another remarkable system of portages appeared.
                    The canoes of the traders were carried some eight or nine miles from the Little 
                        Wabash
                     to the Maumee, placing the command of the whole 
                        Wabash
                     country in the hands of the 
                        Detroit
                     merchants. The sources of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     were connected by portages with the waters of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     of Lake Michigan, and a like connection existed between the waters
                    of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and the waters of the Kankakee. These portages were, as General Harrison observes,
                    "much used by the Indians and sometimes by traders."34 Hence
                    the importance of the trading posts at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and the Wea towns, or Ouiatenon. La Salle passed from Lake
                    Michigan to the waters of the 
                        St. Joseph
                    , thence up that river to a portage of three miles in what is now 
                        St. Joseph county
                    , Indiana, thence by said portage to the headwaters of the Kankakee, and down that river
                    to the 
                        Illinois
                    .35
            
            
               
                  34 Letter by Wm. H. Harrison to Secretary of War, July 5th, 1809, Harrison
                        Letters, 252 to 263, inclusive, State University.
               
                  35 James R. Albach, Annals of the West, 80.
            
            
            At Post 
                        Chicago
                     the traders crossed from Lake Michigan by a very short portage
                    into the headwaters of the 
                        Illinois
                    , and General Harrison says that in the spring, the boats with their loading
                    "passed freely from one to the other".36 In 
                        Michigan
                     the heads of the streams that flowed into Lake Huron interlocked
                    with the heads of those that went down to Lake Michigan. In 
                        Wisconsin
                    , the voyageurs passed from Green bay up the Fox river to
                        lake Winnebago, thence by the Fox again to the portage between the Fox and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , thence down the Wisconsin river to the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Through this important channel of trade passed nine-tenths of the goods that supplied
                    the Indians above the Illinois river and those in upper 
                        Louisiana
                    .37
            
            This great network of lakes, rivers and portages was in turn connected by the waterways of the 
                        Ottawa
                     and the St. Lawrence, with the great head and center of all the fur trade of the
                    western world, the city of Montreal.
            The only practicable means of communication was by the canoe. Most of the territory of the northwest,
                    being as General Harrison observes, "remarkably flat, the roads were necessarily bad in
                    winter, and in the summer the immense prairies to the west and north of this produced such a
                    multitude of flies as to render it impossible to make use of pack horses."38 Bogs, marshes and sloughs in endless number added to the difficulties of travel. Hence it
                    was, that the power that commanded the lakes and water courses of the northwest, commanded at the
                    same time all the fur trade and the Indian tribes in the interior. The mastery of this situation
                    constituted the gage of battle between 
                        France
                     and 
                        England
                     during the French and Indian war, and was afterwards the bone of contention between
                    Great Britain and her former colonies.
            To give a detailed description of the many beautiful rivers, valleys and forests of the northwest of
                    the opening of the last century, would be almost impossible. It was a vast domain, well watered and
                    fertile, and containing some 
                  
                     36 Letter by Wm. H. Harrison to Secretary of War, July 5th, 1809,
                            Harrison Letters, 252 to 263, inclusive, State University.
                  
                     37
                            Id., 252 to 263, inclusive.
                  
                     38
                            Id., 252 to 263, inclusive.
               
                     of the best lands in the possession of the federal government.
                    Two rivers, however, assume such historical importance, as to merit a more particular mention. Along
                    their courses two Indian confederacies were organized, under the spur of British influence, to
                    oppose the advance of the infant republic of the 
                        United States
                    . These two rivers were the 
                        Wabash
                     and the Maumee.
            The valley of the 
                        Wabash
                    , famed in song and story, and rich in Indian legend, is now filled with fields of corn
                    and prosperous cities. At the opening of the year 1800, it swept through an unbroken wilderness of
                    oak, maple and sycamore from its source to the old French settlement of 
                        Vincennes
                    . Its bluffs, now adorned with the habitations of a peaceful people, then presented the
                    wild and rugged beauty of pristine days; its terraces, stretching back to the prairies of the north
                    and west, were crowned with forests primeval; while naked Miamis, Weas and Potawatomi in canoes of
                    bark, rounded its graceful courses to the waters of the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            For one who has ridden over the hills to the west and south of Purdue University, and viewed the
                    gorgeous panorama of the Wea plains, or who has glimpsed in the perspective the wooded hills of 
                        Warren
                     and Vermilion from the bluffs on the eastern side of the river, it is not hard to
                    understand why the red man loved the 
                        Wabash
                    . An observer who saw it in the early part of the last century pens this picture: 
                        Its green banks were lined with the richest verdure. Wild fiowers intermingled with the tall
                            grass that nodded in the passing breeze. Nature seemed clothed in her bridal robe. Blossoms
                            of the wild plum, hawthorn, and red-bud made the air redolent.39
                  
                    
                
            Speaking of the summer he says: 
                        The wide fertile bottom lands of the 
                                Wabash
                            , in many places presented one continuous orchard of wild-plum and crab-apple
                            bushes, overspread with arbors of the different varieties of the woods grape, wild hops and
                            honeysuckle, fantastically wreathed together. One bush, or cluster of bushes, often
                            presenting the crimson plum, the yellow crab-apple, the blue luscious grape, festoons of
                            matured wild hops, mingled with the red berries of the clambering sweet-brier, that bound
                            them all lovingly together.40
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  30 Sanford C. Cox, Old Settlers, 1860, 75.
               
                  40
                        Id., 76.
            
            
            Through all this wild and luxurious wilderness of vines, grasses and flowers flitted the honey bee,
                    called by the Indians "the white man's fly," storing his golden burden in
                    the hollow trunks of the trees. While on the march from 
                        Vincennes
                     in the last days of September, 1811, Captain. Spencer's Yellow Jackets found
                    three bee trees in an hour and spent the evening in cutting them down. They were rewarded by a find
                    of ten gallons of rich honey.41
            
            The great river itself now passed between high precipitous bluffs, crowned with oak, sugar, walnut
                    and hickory, or swept out with long graceful curves into the lowlands and bottoms, receiving at
                    frequent intervals the waters of clear, sparkling springs and brooks that leaped down from rocky
                    gorges and hill sides, or being joined by the currents of some creek or inlet that in its turn swept
                    back through forest, glade and glen to sunlit groves and meadows of blue grass. Everywhere the
                    waters of the great stream were clear and pellucid. The plow-share of civilization had not as yet
                    turned up the earth, nor the filth and sewerage of cities been discharged into the current. In
                    places the gravelly bottom could be seen at a great depth and the forms of fishes of great size
                    reposing at ease.
            
                    Schools of fishes–salmon, bass, red-horse and pike–swam close along the
                        shore, catching at the blossoms of the red-bud and plum that floated on the surface of the
                        water, which was so clear that myriads of the finny tribe could be seen darting hither and
                        thither amidst the limpid element, turning up their silvery sides as they sped out into deeper
                            water.42
               
                
            The whole valley of the 
                        Wabash
                     abounded with deer, and their tiny hoofs wrought footpaths through every hollow and
                    glen. The small prairies bordered with shady groves, the patches of blue grass, and the sweet water
                    of the springs, were great attractions. The banks of the Mississinewa, Wild Cat, Pine Creek,
                    Vermilion, and other tributaries, were formerly noted hunting grounds. George Croghan, who described
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     as running through "one of the finest countries in the world,"
                    mentions the deer as existing in 
                  
                     41
                            
                                Tipton
                            's Journal, Indiana Magazine of History, II, 172
                  
                     42 Sanford C. Cox, Old Settlers, 76.
               
                     great numbers. On the march of General Harrison's men
                    to 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , the killing of deer was an everyday occurrence, and at times the frightened animals
                    passed directly in front of the line of march.43 Raccoons were also very
                    plentiful. On a fur trading expedition conducted by a French trader named La Fountain from the old
                    Miamitown (
                        Fort Wayne
                    ), in the winter of 1789–90, he succeeded in picking up about eighty deer
                    skins and about five hundred raccoon skins in less than thirty days. He descended the 
                        Wabash
                     and "turned into the woods" towards the White
                    river, there bartering with the Indians for their peltries.44
            
            As to wild game, the whole valley was abundantly supplied. In the spring time, great numbers of wild
                    ducks, geese and brant were found in all the ponds and marshes; in the woody grounds, the wild
                    turkey, the pheasant and the quail. At times, the sun was actually darkened by the flight of wild
                    pigeons, while the prairie chicken was found in all the open tracts and grass lands.
            The bottom lands of this river were noted for their fertility. The annual inundations always left a
                    rich deposit of silt. This silt produced excellent maize, potatoes, beans, pumpkins, squashes,
                    cucumbers and melons. These, according to Heckewelder, were important items of the Indian food
                        supply.45
            
            To the Indian we are indebted for ash-cake, hoe-cake, succotash, samp, hominy, and many other
                    preparations made from this Indian maize.46 The Miamis of the 
                        Wabash
                    , with a favorable climate and a superior soil, produced a famous corn with a finer skin
                    and "a meal much whiter" than that raised by other tribes.47
                    How far the cultivation of this cereal had progressed is not now fully appreciated. In the
                    expedition of Gen. James Wilkinson against the 
                        Wabash
                     Indians in 1791, he is said to have destroyed over two hundred acres of corn in the
                    milk at Kenapacomaqua, or the Eel river
                    
                  
                     43 See Tipton's Journal, Indiana Magazine of
                                History, Vol. 2.
                  
                     44 A Narrative of Life on the Old Frontier, Hay's Journal,
                                
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Historical Society, 243–244.
                  
                     45 Rev. John Heckewelder, An Account of the History,
                                etc., of the Indian Nations.
                            
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1819, 193.
                  
                     46
                            Bureau of American Ethnology. Handbook of American Indians. Part I, 791
                  
                     47
                            Id., 853.
               
                     towns, alone, and to have cut down a total of four hundred and
                    thirty acres of corn in the whole campaign.48 On the next day after the battle
                    of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     the dragoons of Harrison's army set fire to the Prophet's Town, and
                    burned it to the ground. Judge Isaac Naylor says that they found there large quantities of corn,
                    beans and peas,49 and Gen. John Tipton relates that the commissary loaded six
                    wagons with corn and "Burnt what was Estimated at 2 Thousand Bushels."50
            
            Of the many other natural advantages of this great valley, much might be written. Wheat and tobacco,
                    the latter of a fine grade, were growing at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1765, when Croghan passed through there. Wild hemp was abundant on the lowlands. The
                    delicious pecan flourished, and walnuts, hazelnuts and hickorynuts were found in great plenty. The
                    sugar maple existed everywhere, and the Indians, who were the original maple sugar makers, of the
                    world, made large quantities of this toothsome article. In addition to this the whole valley was
                    filled with wild fruits and berries, such as blackberries, dewberries, raspberries, gooseberries,
                    and the luscious wild strawberry, that grew everywhere in the open spaces and far out on the
                    bordering prairies.
            No less wonderful was the valley of the Maumee, directly on the great trade route between the 
                        Wabash
                     and the Post of 
                        Detroit
                    . Croghan, who was a judge of good land, and made careful observations, found the
                    Ottawas and Wyandots here in 1765, the land of great richness, and game very plentiful. It was a
                    region greatly beloved by the Indian tribes, and the scene after the Revolution, of many grand
                    councils of the northwestern confederacy. In a letter of General Wayne, written in 1794, he asserts
                    that 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        The margins of these beautiful rivers the Miamis of the Lake
                                    (Maumee), and the Au Glaize (a southern tributary), appear like one
                                    continued village for a number of miles, both above and below this place, Grand
                                    Glaize, nor have I ever before beheld such immense fields of corn in any part of
                                    America from 
                                        Canada
                                     to 
                                        Florida
                                    .51
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  48 James R. Albach, Annals of the West, 568, 570.
               
                  49
                        ‘Report Tippecanoe Monument Commission, 151.
               
                  50
                        Indiana Magazine of History, II, 181.
               
                  51 Bureau of American Ethnology. Handbook of American Indians. Part I,
                        page 791.
            
            
            The army spent many days after the battle of Fallen Timbers in the destruction of the fields of
                    grain. One who marched with 
                        Wayne
                    's army, in August of the above year, describes Indian corn fields for four or
                    five miles in length along the Au Glaize, and estimated that there were one thousand acres of
                    growing corn. The whole valley of the Maumee from its mouth to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , is described as being full of immense corn fields, large vegetable patches, and old
                    apple trees, and it is related that 
                        Wayne
                    's army, while constructing Fort Defiance for a period of eight days,
                    "obtained their bread and vegetables from the corn fields and potato patches surrounding
                    the fort."52
            
            Such were the valleys of the 
                        Wabash
                     and the Maumee, but what of the savages that dwelt therein? Despite the richness and
                    fertility of the soil, the former abundance of game, and the luxuriousness of the vegetation, the
                    bands of Piankeshaws, Weas and Eel River Miamis, which Harrison saw in the
                    vicinity of 
                        Vincennes
                     in the year 1801, are described as "a body of the most depraved wretches upon
                        earth."53 They were seen in the streets of that town daily in
                    considerable numbers; thirty or forty of them being frequently drunk at one time, drawing their
                    knives and stabbing one another, and creating "the greatest disorders." They
                    frequently broke open the houses of the citizens, killing their cattle and hogs, and breaking down
                    their fences.54 Under the influence of intoxicants they were seized with a
                    spirit of insubordination and destroyed many of their own chiefs. The Little Beaver, a Wea
                    chieftain, was murdered by his own son. Little Fox was killed in the street at mid-day, by one of
                    his own nation.55 The Kaskaskias of 
                        Illinois
                    , once a powerful tribe, were reduced to a pack of beggars, supplicating the inhabitants
                    of the old French towns on the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The Piankeshaws were reduced to a miserable remnant of twenty-five or thirty
                        warriors.56 Farther up the 
                  
                     52 Henry Howe, Historical Collections of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , 1856, 523.
                  
                     53 Letter of Wm. H. Harrison to Secretary of War, July 15, 1801,
                            Dawson's Harrison, 9–12.
                  
                     54
                            ld., 9–12.
                  
                     55
                            Id., 9–12.
                  
                     56 Letter of Wm. H. Harrison to Secretary of War, February 26, 1802.
                            Dawson's Harrison, 16–20.
               
                     river, the tale was the same. The once powerful Miamis, visited
                    by Mr. Gist in 1751, and described by him as "a very superior people", and in the
                    days of Anthony Wayne numbered among the leaders of the northwestern confederacy, were reduced and
                    decimated to scattered bands, that were daily yielding their grounds to more powerful tribes.
            What was the cause of this sudden and terrible degeneration of the Indian tribes at the opening of
                    the nineteenth century? It was plainly their contact with the Indian traders, the worst and most
                    vicious element of the early frontier, and described by Harrison as being "the greatest
                    villains in the world."57 Long intercourse with these unscrupulous men,
                    under the French, English and Americans, had finally accomplished a deterioration of the race. These
                    traders had pandered to every vice and bowed to every passion of their savage victims, and all from
                    the sordid motive of gain. The richest peltries were bartered for whiskey; the plains and rivers
                    were robbed of their fur-bearing and food-producing animals. In 1801 the spectacle was appalling! It
                    was believed that at that time not more than six hundred warriors were left upon the 
                        Wabash
                    , and yet it was estimated that the quantity of liquor imported for their consumption
                    was six thousand gallons.58 The closer the contact of trader and savage, the
                    more noticeable the effects.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        All horrors are produced to those unhappy people by their too frequent intercourse
                                    with the white people. This is so certain, that I can at once tell, upon looking at
                                    an Indian whom I chance to meet, whether he belongs to a neighboring, or to a more
                                    distant tribe. The latter is generally well clothed, healthy, and vigorous; the
                                    former, half naked, filthy, and enfeebled by intoxication; and many of them without
                                    arms, excepting a knife, which they carry for the most villainous purposes.59
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Along the great trade routes from 
                        Detroit
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    , frequented for many decades by the'voyageurs and traders of both those posts,
                    the results were calamitous.
            Let another fact be noticed. In the succeeding years of 
                  
                     57
                            Id., 16–20.
                  
                     58 Letter of Wm. H. Harrison to Secretary of War, July 15, 1801.
                            Dawson's Harrison, 9–12.
                  
                     59 Letter of Wm. H. Harrison to Secretary of War, July 15, 1801.
                            Dawson's Harrison, 9–12.
               
                     General Harrison's administration, yearly complaint was
                    made by the Indians of the scarcity of game. It is true that the great herds of buffalo had
                    disappeared, and fearful havoc had been wrought among the swarms of beaver and otter, but if the
                    tribes had not been weakened and diseased by the constant use of liquor, much of their misery might
                    have been averted, and the natural bounties of their habitations would have still yielded them an
                    abundant supply of food. As it was, great portions of the race were enervated, and became more and
                    more dependent as their vices progressed. And along with this inordinate use of liquors, other
                    perils had come. Hecklewelder noticed among the 
                        Ohio
                     Delawares, a terrible increase in pulmonary diseases, as a result of the use of
                    spirituous liquors. "Our vices have destroyed them more than our swords."60 Ardent spirits in turn propagated certain blood diseases; the currents of the
                    race became corrupted, and great numbers perished.61
            
            Let it not be understood, however, that the glory and courage of all the tribesmen had entirely
                    departed. Far from it. Despite the depravity spread by the traders, the innate ferocity of these
                    wild men, their discipline in battle, and their knowledge of woodcraft, still made them a formidable
                    foe. Given the right leaders, who could powerfully appeal to their superstitions and their ancient
                    hatred of the paleface, and they still possessed enough of potency to resist strong armies, and to
                    strike terror to the hearts of the rugged frontiersmen.
            
               
                  60 Rev. John Heckelwelder, An Account of the History, etc.,
                            of the Indian Nations, 223.
               
                  61
                        Id., 221.
            
            (To be continued)
         
         
         
            Tunis Quick, A 
                        Bartholomew County
                     Pioneer
            By His Daughter RACHEL Q. BUTTZ
            
            One of the early pioneers of 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , Indiana, was Tunis Quick. He was born March 13, 1797, near 
                  Martinsburg, Berkeley county,
                            Virginia
                (now 
                        West Virginia
                    ). He came to 
                        Bartholomew county
                     (or what was afterwards this county), in the autumn of 1819. He entered 160 acres of
                    land for himself and his father, in the Haw Patch, seven miles north of the present city of 
                        Columbus
                    , where he afterwards helped to build one of the first houses.
            With him came Isaac Pancake, a young man near his own age, and also a native of 
                        Virginia
                    , who entered a nearby tract of land. Their nearest neighbors were Joseph Cox and
                    family, living about three miles to the southeast, who arrived there in April of the same year,
                    1819.
            The young pioneers each built on his land a small cabin, just large enough to stand up or lie down in
                    comfortably, with a small fireplace in one end. Here they prepared their food, which consisted of a
                    little corn bread, and an abundance and variety of wild meat, which they secured with their rifles
                    from the thick woods which surrounded them. The water for all necessary purposes was carried from
                    Flat Rock, about half a mile west of them.
            Plenty of hard work was to be done and they did it bravely and cheerfully, looking ahead to the homes
                    that were to be theirs in the future. At night their rest was sweet and safe, as there were only a
                    few Indians passing through the country then, and they were friendly.
            In the spring of 1820, Tunis Quick's father and the other members of his family came from 
                        Madison
                    , where they had spent the winter. A larger house was built on the east eighty of the
                    land which had been entered, and the family began pioneer life in earnest.
            Quite a number of settlers came on that spring, and the country began to fill up with neighbors in
                    all directions. These pioneers were hardy, honest, industrious and friendly –usually
                    regarding each other's rights to the letter. All had 
                    guns of some kind, and ammunition for all necessary purposes. They even formed a company for
                    training militia, and Tunis Quick was chosen captain of the company. From that time onward he
                    occupied prominent positions. Though he was only about medium size, he possessed unusual physical
                    strength and mental vigor, and his neighbors gladly recognized his leadership.
            Corn huskings and log rollings were almost the only festivities in which the early settlers indulged,
                    and at such gatherings whiskey flowed more or less freely. There were few teetotalers among the
                    early settlers, but not many of them drank to excess. They had already made so many sacrifices, and
                    were so filled with the desire to secure comfortable homes for themselves and their posterity, that
                    they did not allow themselves undue indulgences.
            Government land had been promised to the settlers at $1.25 per acre. Hard work was a
                    necessity for the pioneers, and money was scarce, but they managed to save enough to pay that price
                    for their land, and a company of them went to 
                        Brookville
                     to the land sale in 1820. Here they encountered land sharks, who, even in that early
                    day, were plying their nefarious business–trying to defraud honest, industrious people of
                    their "inalienable rights." But the early American citizens, among a great many
                    other sterling qualities, inherited independence from their forefathers; so after watching the
                    performance of the land sharks, who were running the land up to $1.50 per acre, they
                    decided to hold the government to its promise of $1.25 an acre for those who had built
                    upon their land, and begun to improve it. Accordingly, they presented a solid front with their
                    rifles, demanded their rights and were granted them without further parley.
            In those early days, hospitality was spontaneous and sincere. Travelers were heartily welcomed with
                    the hope that they might become neighbors in the near future. A young man named Joseph Van Meter
                    came on horseback from 
                        Kentucky
                    , and stayed over night with Tunis Quick, who had relatives in 
                        Virginia
                     named Van Meter. Being distantly related to the same family, and having many ideas in
                    common, the young men both enjoyed the visit. When Mr. Van Meter, who wished to see more of the
                    country before settling down,  was about to start on his way the
                    next morning, he deposited $600 in gold with his new friend for safe-keeping until his
                    return. Being attacked by some kind of fever while he was gone, it was many weeks before he was able
                    to come back. No word came from him in the meantime, but when he was able to ride he returned and
                    found his money safe with his friend. They trusted each other absolutely in the beginning and were
                    the best of friends while they both lived.
            Joseph Van Meter went back to 
                        Kentucky
                    , but so attractive was the new country, that he and his brother-in-law, William Jones,
                    soon decided to make their future homes in Indiana. In 1821, while on their way to hunt a location
                    there, they met an acquaintance at 
                        Louisville
                    , who was returning from the Reserve, as it was often called. He was seated on a
                    wagon-tongue and shaking violently with the ague. Between his chattering teeth he said to William
                    Jones: "Bill, turn around and go back. Go back to old Kaintuck. The darned ager will shake
                    you to pieces up thar in Indiany." But possessed of the invincible pioneer spirit, instead
                    of turning back they went forward. They were much pleased with the new country and bought farms
                    adjoining each other in the rich bottom land on the west side of Flat Rock, and almost opposite
                    Tunis Quick's farm, which was on the east side of the river. They built their homes about a
                    half mile from Flat Rock, and both became prominent citizens. The Van Meter family have all passed
                    to their reward, and John L. Jones, a prominent farmer of the county, is the only remaining member
                    of that Jones family. He still owns the farm which was selected by his father when he arrived here
                    from 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1821.
            Quite a settlement now began on the west side of Flat Rock. A large family named Records, moved from 
                        Ohio
                    , and settled one mile and a half east of the present site of Taylorsville. In this
                    family, Tunis Quick, who was now nearly 25 years old, found a sweet, blue-eyed, sunny-haired girl of
                    17, who soon became the choice of his heart. Her name was Susanna Records. She was attractive in
                    person, more so in character, and their marriage, which occurred in September, 1822, was a happy
                    one.
            By that time the house had been enlarged and improved, and the young couple were quite comfortably
                    situated for  pioneers. Some glass window lights, which were a
                    novelty in the neighborhood, had been put in, instead of the greased paper, through which the light
                    came but dimly in those early homes. A board floor was also laid instead of the dirt floor which was
                    common at that time. Pieces of wood were inserted between the logs of the houses, extending far
                    enough into the room for the width of a bed or table and on these were laid boards to be used for
                    such furniture. Rustic benches and stools, made from forest timber, served for seats at first, but
                    it was not long until chairs and other furniture of various kinds were made in the neighborhood. The
                    first chair owned by Tunis Quick, and the only one in his home when he was married, was made by
                    Mignon Boaz, a Baptist preacher, who lived near, on the bluff bank of Flat Rock.
            The pioneers were not dependent upon material things for happiness. Their lives were full of heroic
                    purpose, and the pioneer women were helpmates for their husbands in the truest sense. They spun and
                    wove flax, cotton and wool into cloth for table and bed linen, and to make garments for their
                    rapidly increasing families. Some of them were very expert in dying wool and cotton, in fast and
                    beautiful colors. Also in weaving different patterns for table-cloths and counterpanes. Such energy
                    and industry as was shown by both sexes, was not without reward, and soon "the wilderness
                    blossomed as the rose."
            The march of progress was rapid with the passing of the years. Orchards were planted, crops of many
                    kinds were raised, and neighbors vied with each other in a good-natured way in making improvements.
                    Fever and ague were prevalent, and sometimes an epidemic of flux, or some other dreadful disease,
                    carried off their little ones, and some grown people, so that they had their full share of sorrow as
                    well as joy.
            As early as 1821, the Flat Rock Baptist church was organized, and not long afterwards a log house of
                    worship was built on the bluff bank of Flat Rock. Near the church, a little cemetery was begun, and
                    less than a mile away, there was soon another burying place for the beloved ones who were passing
                    away.
            Pioneer preachers proclaimed the gospel, sometimes with  much
                    performance of physical power and salutary spiritual effect. A Bible and hymn book could be found in
                    nearly every home, though other books were very scarce, and novel reading was considered quite
                    disreputable, for, to the pioneers, life was indeed real and earnest.
            Schools were taught by men who came from the indefinite east for that purpose, for no woman would
                    have been considered able to control a school. There was discipline in the schools and also in the
                    homes of those days–sometimes too severe; but better perhaps for the formation of
                    character than the laxity of government which prevails at present.
            As the years passed by and families grew larger, additions were built to the houses, more of the
                    comforts of life were enjoyed, and the duties and responsibilities of citizenship were also
                    increased and recognized.
            
               
                        Columbus
                     was the seat of justice, and justice was sometimes administered in very peculiar ways
                    by officers there; and in various parts of the country.
            Jack Jones, who kept a tavern, called "The Jones House", on the southwest corner of 
                        Washington
                     and Second streets, was elected justice of the peace. A fight was going on at a furious
                    rate in front of the tavern when Tunis Quick arrived on horseback. He greeted Mr. Jones by saying:
                    "Jack, I thought you were elected to command the peace." "And I
                    will", thundered Mr. Jones, as he rushed out to the woodpile, and seized a large limb which
                    had been cut from a tree. Pushing his way through the crowd which had gathered, he ran in between
                    the combatants and shouted in stentorian tones: "I command the peace", and peace
                    was immediately restored.
            A similar case occurred in Flatrock township when Tunis Quick was justice of the peace. A man who
                    lived nearly a half mile away, was in the habit of coming home drunk and whipping his wife. Tunis
                    Quick, who had remonstrated with him in vain, finally told him that people were too much disgusted
                    with his way of doing to allow it much longer, and that if he did not put a stop to it, somebody
                    else would be treating him just like he treated his wife.
            Not long afterwards, in the dusk of a drizzly day, just as the evening "chores"
                    were all done, the abused wife was heard  screaming at the top of
                    her voice. Tunis Quick turned his coat wrong side out, drew an old broad-rimmed hat well down over
                    his face, and proceeded to administer justice in a most emphatic way, by giving the man a
                    well-deserved whipping. The wife interfered at last, and was in the act of pulling the hat off the
                    head of her deliverer, who immediately started away, in a different direction from his home, adding
                    as he went that next time he would give the culprit more of the same kind. The next morning the man
                    came down "to swear out a writ before the squire", but as he was unable to tell
                    who "assaulted and battered" him, the case was dismissed.
            In those days, letters were like angels' visit–few and far between, and highly
                    prized. They were written on large sheets of paper, one page of which was left blank. The letter was
                    then carefully folded, with the blank side out, properly addressed, and sealed with a wafer, but was
                    sent without postage. No letters could be delivered, however, until 25 cents postage was paid by the
                    would-be recipient.
            One day in the 
                        Columbus
                     postoffice, Tunis Quick saw two sisters crying. They had recently been married in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and had come with their husbands to settle in 
                        Bartholomew county
                    . When asked the cause of their distress, they replied that a letter was there from
                    their old home, and they had no money to pay the postage. It was only a neighborly kindness for one
                    who had 25 cents to pay the postage and deliver the letter. Tears were dried, earnest thanks were
                    expressed, and though the money was soon repaid, sincere gratitude found expression, through
                    different members of these families, for more than one generation.
            Before any railroads were built through the country, the pioneers hauled the products of their farms
                    to 
                        Madison
                     or 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , and brought home necessary commodities of different kinds. Quite a number of men
                    usually went together, with wagons and four-horse teams. They camped over night by the way,
                    sometimes sleeping in their wagons, and sometimes on blankets, spread on the ground, under the
                    trees. The journey was long and tedious, but there were compensations. Some of the men had a fine
                    sense of humor,  and a good relish for jokes; so the time
                    generally passed very pleasantly.
            It was "the rule of the road" that empty wagons should always "turn
                    out" for loaded ones; but a man whom they sometimes met, boasted that he never had
                    "turned out" for anyone, and that he never would "turn out". As
                    the party of men around the campfire one night, were talking about the surly one they expected to
                    meet the next day, Tunis Quick said, "He will turn out for me,
                    tomorrow"–and he did. Soon after the party of men started on their journey the
                    next day, they saw the churlish one approaching with his empty wagon in the middle of the road. As
                    soon as he was near enough, Tunis Quick fixed his eyes upon him, and called to him that if he did
                    not "turn out" of the road, he might expect just such treatment as was given to a
                    man the day before. When the loaded wagon came alongside the empty one, the man said: "How
                    did you treat that man yesterday?" "I turned out, myself", was the reply
                    amidst hearty cheers from the rest of the party.
            The roads at that time were bad in many places, and it was almost impossible for loaded wagons to
                    travel outside of the beaten track. No vehicles except wagons were obtainable in the new country,
                    neither could they have been used in but few places; so travelers went either on foot, horseback, or
                    in wagons.
            Tunis Quick liked to relate the experience of himself and his wife when they visited her parents. At
                    first, they both rode on a little Indian pony and if Flatrock was high, they crossed it in a canoe
                    with the pony swimming behind. As their family increased they each rode a horse, carrying a baby in
                    front, and as the children increased in numbers and size, the larger ones were mounted behind. Once
                    the wife's horse laid down in the water, and when she was rescued by her husband, she was
                    holding her baby boy in such a close embrace that he was almost unconscious. Later, when there were
                    more children, if the whole family went visiting, the horses were hitched to the wagon, chairs were
                    set in for the parents, and the children were seated on straw in the bottom of the wagon.
            Men who rode on horse-back when it was muddy, wore  leggins, made
                    of thick, heavy cloth, and reaching from the tops of the feet to the knees. They were buttoned or
                    tied securely, and were quite a protection from wet, cold and mud. The men also carried saddle bags,
                    which held changes of clothing, or other necessities.
            The women wore riding skirts to protect their dresses. These riding skirts had large pockets on the
                    left side, and were very convenient for carrying necessary articles.
            Tunis Quick and his wife kept abreast of the times. They interested themselves in having the best
                    teachers for their children and in keeping up religious services in the Baptist church, and other
                    places of worship. They also encouraged the teachers of singing schools, or any other specialties
                    which they thought would be for the good of their family or the neighborhood.
            They bought improved utensils to use in their home and on the farm. They bought one of the two first
                    cooking stoves that were brought from 
                        Madison
                    . Also one of the first bureaus, bedsteads, tables and chairs of various shapes and
                    sizes.
            Their library was very small at first, but was gradually increased, as occasion demanded. A few law
                    books were necessary, and to these a book of history or biography was occasionally added; and
                    besides they had the Bible and the hymns of Isaac Watts, each of which is a library in itself. Isaac
                    Watts was a favorite poet with some of the pioneers, and they read or sang his hymns with pleasure
                    and enthusiasm.
            The first newspapers for the two political parties in Indiana were the State
                    Sentinel for the Democrats and the Indiana Journal, later the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, for the Whigs. Both papers were published in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and both were read with much interest; for the pioneers were patriotic and political.
            Tunis Quick was a Whig until the Republican party was founded, when he became a member of that party.
                    But he was never a bitter partisan and always treated his opponents with courtesy. He was always
                    interested in public affairs, and was often asked to write wills, settle estates and be guardian for
                    orphan children; in all of which he was honest,  capable and
                    trustworthy, winning the respect and gratitude of the interested parties.
            At that time there was a probate court "for proving the genuineness and validity of wills,
                    their registry and such other proceedings as the law prescribed, preliminary to the execution of the
                    will by the executor." For this court there was a judge called "a judge of
                    probate", or "probate judge". This office was satisfactorily filled for
                    six years by Tunis Quick.
            He was also a member of the state legislature for two terms. Some of his letters, written to his wife
                    during that time, in 1840, '41 and '42, are still cherished by members of his
                    family. These letters are written in a firm, plain hand, and in the dignified style of a gentleman
                    of the old school, reminding one of the letters of George Washington. He addresses his wife in most
                    endearing terms, and sends messages to each of his children, counselling them to be obedient to
                    their mother. He shows the most tender concern for the entire family, including the parents of his
                    wife, who were members of his household.
            He mentions the business of the legislature as "necessary work for the good of our
                    country", involving some hardships and sacrifices, and especially the absence from home,
                    adding that he does not wish to make such a sacrifice again. He is determined, however, to do his
                    duty to the best of his ability while there, and speaks of his colleagues with respect and
                        admiration.1
            
            He was much interested in having the railroad built from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , as he was tired of riding forty miles on horseback, through the mud, from his home to 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; and hauling grain and goods with a four-horse team, back and forth from his 
                        Bartholomew county
                     home to 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . Some members of the legislature very bitterly opposed building the railroad, and
                    declared that it would never pay expenses; but the "ayes had it", to their great
                    satisfaction, and inexpressible benefit to their posterity.
            The characters of such men as Judge Quick were invaluable during the pioneer work of the county and
                    state. One who knew him well said: "Judge Quick had his full share 
                  
                     1 See letters at close of this article.
               
                     of the pleasures, responsibilities and hardships of pioneer
                    life, did his whole duty as a citizen; and as much as any other man in developing the county from
                    its primitive state to its present condition." To this was added by another admirer:
                    "His courage, activity, intelligence and uprightness have never been questioned."
                    His wife was a true helpmate, and in every way worthy of such a husband. They lived happily together
                    for more than sixty years on the farm which was bought at the "land sale" at 
                        Brookville
                    , in 1820.
            They had eleven children, eight of whom lived to maturity. It was one of Judge Quick's
                    ambitions to give to each one of these children "a quarter section" of good land,
                    which he accomplished, besides accumulating some other property. One farm of more than eighty acres,
                    which he owned, is now all inside the corporation of 
                        Columbus
                    , and a part of it is known as "Quick Heirs Addition."
            But the accumulation of property was not the chief aim of Judge Quick and his wife. They lived
                    honest, industrious, Christian lives, both being members of the Baptist church. Theirs was a
                    successful life in the truest sense, and they "entered into rest" full of years
                    and honors, and affectionately cherished in memory.
         
         
         
            The Quick Family In America2
            
            Burke's Landed Gentry of 
                            England
                        
                (
                  Petersburg, Va.
               , public library) states that the Quick
                    family came from Holland to 
                        England
                     in the year 1445, having been forced to leave Holland during one of the religious wars.
                    They were people of some prominence and wealth, acquired land in 
                        England
                    , and later the head of the family was knighted as Sir John Quick. The estate is at St.
                    Cyrus or St. Ives, Cornwall. The family crest is given in Burke. The head of the family has not
                    always been named John; presumably the oldest son named John died and a younger son inherited the
                    title and estates, but Burke gives Sir John Quick as the head of the family at the time his book was
                    published. Several of the younger sons of the succeeding generations rose to prominence, one of them
                    being – Quick who was appointed by the crown as governor of Tunis, Africa, and who named
                    one of his sons Tunis Quick. Tunis Quick, whose grandfather was the head of the estate in 
                        England
                    , being a younger son, decided to emigrate to America about 1700, and was the head of
                    our American family.
            Between the above Tunis Quick and Tunis Quick of 
                  Martinsburg, W. Va.
               , are the
                    names of Morgan, John, James, Samuel and Charles. Tunis Quick landed in 
                        New York
                    , and either he or his descendants went to 
                        New Jersey
                     and thence to 
                        Virginia
                    . There is a monument to Samuel Quick in 
                        New Jersey
                    , erected in memory of his having rescued the community from the Indians.
            Probably the first record of the Quicks in 
                        Virginia
                     is to be found in Stafford courthouse, 
                  Stafford
                        county, Virginia
               . In the earlier
                    days 
                        Stafford county
                     embraced all the country west of the Potomac river and included
                            
                  Berkley county, Virginia
               , now 
                        West Virginia
                    . The records in Stafford show the family to have been among the first families and the
                    records in 
                        Berkley county
                     at 
                        Martinsburg
                     run back to the first records of the county.
            The records at 
                  Martinsburg, Berkley county
               , show several deeds and leases made, one being a deed
                    for 383 acres of land from Lord Fairfax. Another was a lease of land from Tunis 
                  
                     2 By Spencer Records Quick, aged 92, 1864 N. Pennsylvania St., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind. July, 1920.
               
                     Quick to a Jacob Beller for 500 years for a certain number of
                    peppercorns per year. A more thorough search of the records would probably divulge other valuable
                    records. Tunis Quick II and his wife Lenah had three sons, Tunis Quick III, James Quick and Oakley
                    Quick. Tunis Quick III married Ruth Gorrell and James Quick married Hannah Gorrell. Do not know whom
                    Oakley Quick married, but there is now living at 
                        Frankfort
                    , Indiana, a Miss Oakley Quick, and in 
                        Madison county
                    , Indiana, a Mr. Oakley Quick. Tunis and James married sisters. Their father-in-law was
                    a Gorrell, from 
                        England
                     and his father was Sir John Gorrell. The mother of Ruth and Hannah Gorrell was a
                    Hedges, a daughter of Sir Charles Hedges who was secretary to Queen Anne, 1702.
            
                    Sons:
                    1. James Quick, born 
                     Martinsburg, Va.
                  , 1770, died 
                            Bartholomew county
                        , Ind., June 26, 1847.
                    First wife, Hannah Gorrell. Children: William, Tunis, Lenah and James. William died unmarried.
                        Tunis married Susanah Records. Lenah married Fergus Moore. James married Elizabeth Goodwin.
                    Third wife, Susannah Pancake McConnell. Children: Samuel, Agnes, Elizabeth and Martin. Samuel
                        married Margaret Gonse, no heirs. Agnes married Daniel Lambert; children, Thomas, Elizabeth,
                        Samuel and Alice. Elizabeth married Reuben Hayworth, no heirs. Martin married Matilda Owens, no
                        heirs.
                    2. Tunis Quick III, born 
                     Martinsburg, Va.
                  , Mar. 13, 1797; died 
                            Bartholomew county
                        , Ind., Feb. 24, 1883. Married Susannah Records, Sept. 3, 1823; died June 5,
                    1884.
                
            Susannah Records' (wife of Tunis Quick) father was Captain Spencer Records, appointed
                    captain by the governor of 
                        Virginia
                     in 1791. He surveyed and laid out some of the principal highways in 
                        Kentucky
                     and was appointed captain in 1793 by the governor of 
                        Kentucky
                    . He was born in 
                  Sussex, Delaware
               , lived in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     and died in Indiana, aged 88, Feb. 17, 1850. His father was Capt. Josiah Records, who
                    first drove a wagon in the Revolutionary war and was later made captain. Capt. Spencer
                    Records' wife was Elizabeth Elrod and her father and mother were John Elrod and
                    Mary–, of 
                        Virginia
                    . Sussanah Tully was the wife of Capt. Josiah Records and the mother of Capt. Spencer
                    Records.
            
            
                    Children of Tunis Quick and Susannah Records: Smith William, Morgan John, Harris, Spencer
                        Records, James Hoagland, Tunis Gorrell, Josiah Tully, Hannah Gorrell, William Harrison, Samuel
                        Tompkins, Rachel Nelson.
                    (1) Smith William died in infancy.
                    (2) Morgan John was born September 25, 1825, and died in 1913. He married Isabel Hoskinson, who
                        died in 1918. Celebrated their 66th wedding anniversary Sept., 1910. Children: Tunis, Hannah,
                        Hugh Samuel, John Spencer, Belle, Ezra, Morgan Gorrell, Kate and Lizzie.
                
            It was the request of Hannah Gorrell, the wife of James Quick, that the name of Gorrell should never
                    go out of the Quick family. At the present time there is Tunis Gorrell Quick, of 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, and Morgan Gorrell Quick, son of Morgan John Quick, a Baptist minister of
                            
                  Jersey City, New Jersey
               .
            The name Tunis should never go out of the family after all these years.
            
                    (3) Harris died in infancy.
                    (4) Spencer Records Quick, born July 26, 1828; wife, Katherine Madora Hauser, born April 21,
                        1831; married April 10, 1860. Died Sept. 17, 1889.
                
            Katharine Madora Hauser's father was Jacob Hauser of 
                        North Carolina
                     (
                        Salem
                    ). His parents were Abraham Hauser and Mary Magdalene Strupe, both of
                            
                  Salem, North
                        Carolina
               . His father was Martin Hauser born in 1696, in Mumpolgard, 
                        Switzerland
                    ; died in 1761. Katharine Madora Hauser's mother was Nancy Sims of 
                        Tennessee
                    , lived to be 96 years old, whose parents were Joshua Sims of 
                        Tennessee
                     and Agnes Boaz, whose father was Bednigo Boaz. Joshua Sims' parents were
                    William Sims and Mildred Russell, of 
                        Virginia
                    .
            
                    Children of Spencer Records and Katherine, Mndora: Waiter Jacob, Mary Katharine, Austin Tunis and
                        Homer Spencer.
                    Walter Jacob Quick, born May 24, 1861. Married Anna Foster. Children: Anna Katharine, married
                        Scott C. Bicknell, one child, Ernest P. Bicknell II. Walter's second wife, Mary A.
                        Mitchell, children: Walter Jacob Quick II, William Mitchell Quick and Burnet Bentley Quick.
                    Mary Katharine Quick, born Jan. 28, 1865. Married Harry Kent-ley Burnet of 
                            Vincennes
                        , Dec. 25, 1889. Harry Burnet's father and mother were Stephen Burnet and
                        Laura Bentley of Chagrin Falls, 
                            Ohio
                        .
                    Austin Tunis Quick, born Sept. 24, 1863. Married Alice May Hess  Dec. 28, 1887. Children: Austin Tunis Quick II (see below), Alice May Hess is a daughter of
                        Dr. John Henry Hess, born in 
                     Lewisburg, W. Va.
                  , Dec. 4, 18–, died in May,
                        1888. His father was William Henry Hess, of 
                            Lewisburg
                        , Greenbrier Co., Va. (W. Va.). His father was Jacob Hess of Martinsburg, 
                            Berkley county
                        , Va. (W. Va.) and witnessed deeds for Tunis Quick in 1780. Dr. John Hess'
                        mother was Elizabeth Jamison and her mother was a Dyke. Alice May Hess' mother was
                        Martha Donnelly, born in 
                     Lewisburg, Greenbrier county
                  , Va. Her father and mother were
                        Charles Donnelly and Cynthia Williams. Charles Donnelly's father and mother were James
                        Donnelly and Rachel Blake. Cynthia Williams' father and mother were Capt. John T.
                        Williams and Martha McMillian. James Donnelly's father and mother were Col. Andrew
                        Donnelly and Mary Van Bibber. The Donnelly name is French and was d'Annelly. See the
                        records of King George countyhouse, Va.
                    Austin Tunis Quick II, born March 8, 1889. Wife, Victoria Kin-nier. Married Oct. 22, 1913.
                        Children: Austin Tunis Quick III, born Sept. 27, 1914; William Kinnier Quick, born Nov. 8, 1917.
                    Homer Spencer Quick, born Jan. 29, 1869, married Emma King, whose father was George King of 
                            Columbus
                        , Ind. Children: Mary Margaret Quick, born Nov. 16, 1891. Husband, John D. Culp.
                        Married August 23, 1917. Children: Virginia Margaret Quick, born Dec. 8, 1919; 
                            Spencer
                         Spurgeon Quick, born April 30, 1896. Wife, Alyda Robinson. Married Sept., 1918.
                    (5) James Hoagland Quick, born Nov. 1, 1830; died Dec. 15, 1899; married Ellen Van Schoyck, who
                        died Dec. 31, 1908. Children: George Washington, Evan Snead, William White, Lillian, married H.
                        A. Hughes of 
                            Columbus
                        .
                    (6) Tunis Gorrell Quick, born Jan. 30, 1833; married Elizabeth Cox, who died April 20, 1903.
                        Children: Mary Alice, married Charles Hege. She died June 10th, 1910. Kate, died May 12, 1880.
                    (7) Josiah Tully Quick, born Aug. 7, 1835; died Dec. 15, 1899. Married Melissa Jones. He served
                        in the Civil war, Co. H, 12th Ind. infantry, from 1861 to 1866. Children: Laura, Western, Edgar,
                        Ella, Elizabeth, Frank, Oscar and Cordelia.
                    (8) Hannah Gorrell Quick, born Feb. 16, 1838, unmarried. She heired Judge Quick's home
                        and has always lived there. This home has been in the family since 1819 and there has never been
                        a deed or a mortgrge on the land since it was deeded to Tunis Quick by the government. It bears
                        the name "Heartsease."
                    (9) William Harrison died in infancy.
                    (10) Samuel Thomkins Quick, born Oct. 14, 1843; married Elizabeth Dodds, daughter of Dr. Dodds of 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind. Children: Louis, Mary, Ritchie and Ralph, twins, Susan and Anne twins.
                    (11) Rachel Nelson Quick, born Dec. 19, 1847, married Samuel D. Buttz. Children: Mabel, born at 
                            Columbus
                        , married Willis Gorrell, whose father, William Gorrell, was a cousin of Judge Tunis
                        Quick. Mabel's children are Paul, Glen, Ralph, Bertha and Louise.
                
            
            Another branch of the family is recently mentioned in the 
                        London
                     Mail in a half column article which says that Sir John Quick was born in 
                        Trevassa
                    , near St. Ives, 
                  Cornwall, England
               , April 14, 1852. He is a descendant of an old
                    established family of landed proprietors. The family went to 
                        Australia
                    , where by hard work and much study John obtained the degree of Doctor of Law, became a
                    member of the house of representatives, the author of several standard works among them being
                        ‘The Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth. For his
                    work he was knighted. This Sir John Quick is the son of a younger set of the original Sir John
                    Quick.
            James Quick, desiring to see the great west, moved near Circleville, O., on the Scioto
                        river and remained there a few years, then went down the river to the 
                        Ohio
                     and thence to 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, in 1817. His son Tunis, in company with Isaac Pancake, with their guns and
                    ammunition and knapsacks, started out to explore the country and find a good farming location. They
                    followed Indian trails, traveling in a northwesterly direction over the route that afterwards became
                    the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     state road. They passed through what was later known as the Hawpatch in 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , they went as far north as 
                        Indianapolis
                    , then returned to the Hawpatch and took a squatters right to 160 acres of land, built a
                    cabin and commenced "a clearing" to plant in the coming spring. They then returned
                    to 
                        Madison
                     and in the early spring assisted James Quick and family to move to the new cabin which
                    was destined to be their permanent home.
            Quite a few families arrived this year (1819) and the people went for miles to assist each other in
                    rolling logs to clear the ground and build their meager homes.
            William Chapman built the first house in the county seat. Jacob Hauser and Joseph Lochenour, from 
                        North Carolina
                    , and Tunis Quick, helped him with the building in 1820 or 1821. There was quite an
                    increase in the population of the county. The land in this part of the state came into market by the
                    government and was sold at 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana. James and Tunis Quick bought their 160 acres at this time. It has been owned
                    and occupied continuously by them and  their descendants without
                    the title going out of the family and not a mortgage, judgment or lien of any kind against it. It is
                    a rare occurrence that a farm is owned and occupied with a clear title for one hundred years by the
                    same family.
            Tunis Quick was made justice of the peace of Flatrock township and served for several years in that
                    capacity. Later he was elected representative to the legislature for 
                        Bartholomew
                     and 
                        Brown counties
                    . Later still, he served for many years as judge of the county court. Probably he
                    settled more estates than any man in that county at the time and was known as an able jurist. He
                    owned a good library for that early day and was widely read to the degree of being a student.
            He gave the ground and was instrumental in having the township build a school house with regular
                    school sessions. His house was the center of the community and he took an interest in the welfare of
                    everyone. He pulled their teeth, settled their disputes, performed their marriages. He annually
                    brought into his family a tailor and shoemaker who made and repaired the family wardrobe.
            His home was always open to the teacher who must board around, not always finding comfortable
                    quarters; the itinerant preacher who traveled through the country always found a warm welcome and a
                    place to relieve the burden of his soul. Judge Quick would put his several boys on horseback and
                    send them as runners through the country announcing there would be preaching at a certain time. The
                    audience was never failing as all seemed anxious to hear the word of God. The lecturer, too, always
                    had his interested audience with his knowledge of the outer world, on spiritualism, hypnotism,
                    ventriloquism and other isms of the day.
            The politicians knew him far and wide and called at his house frequently remaining over night. Henry
                    Clay was one of his special friends and was in the group of enthusiasts that rode on horseback to
                    the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battle Ground in the Harrison campaign in 1840. This same year Governor Metcalf,
                    Senator Crittenden and Henry Clay stopped at 
                        Columbus
                     and the Whigs from the surrounding country went in to hear them speak. Metcalf and
                    Crittenden could not satisfy the crowd, who wanted to hear 
                        Clay
                     who was at the  hotel resting. They sent a committee
                    after him consisting of William Herod and others, Herod being well acquainted with 
                        Clay
                     while serving in congress. 
                        Clay
                     made a wonderful speech, but one fellow yelled "hurrah for Jackson". 
                        Clay
                     straightened himself up, looking a foot taller and in his drastic manner said:
                    "You say, ‘Hurrah for Jackson’. I say, ‘Hurrah for my
                    Country.’" The unlucky fellow was the cause of the audience hearing one of the
                    most eloquent, scathing and tremendous speeches ever uttered by man. He denounced Jackson and his
                    administration. His words were so burning, his audience so in sympathy and the excitement so
                    intense, that it was with difficulty that the Jackson man was taken from the room by his friends.
                    Clay spoke for half an hour, and when he finished his admirers followed him to the hotel cheering.
                    The next morning the noted Kentuckians started for their homes traveling in their private
                    conveyances.
            William Henry Harrison was nominated for president of the 
                        United States
                     and Tyler for vice-president The country was wild with its "Hurrah for
                    Harrison and Reform" and "
                        Tippecanoe
                     and Tyler Too".
            This campaign was known as the hard cider campaign. At that time 
                        Brown
                     and 
                        Bartholomew counties
                     elected state senators and representatives together. The democratic candidates were
                    Maj. Tannehill for senator and Col. T. G. Lee for representative. The Whigs were William Terrell, a
                    Methodist minister for senator and Tunis Quick for representative. It was a hot campaign, the
                    candidates stumped the two counties, traveling horseback. At that time the majority of the people
                    voted at the county seat. Tunis Quick lived on the most public road leading to 
                        Columbus
                    . He had a large apple orchard and he had made a great many barrels of cider to be given
                    away on election day which was held on the first Monday in August.
            The emblems of the hard cider campaign were buckeye log cabins, coon skin caps with a buckeye cane.
                    The morning of the election he had several barrels of cider rolled out to the large front gate at
                    his home, the gate post being decorated with log cabins and coon skins. The barrels were so arranged
                    that his little boys could draw the cider in tin cups and give it to all who passed.
            
            There were a great many barrels of cider taken to the courthouse yard at 
                        Columbus
                    . The heads were taken out of the barrels and tin cups placed so that all could help
                    themselves. Cider was free for all.
            The Democrats in order to compete with the Whigs bought barrels of corn whisky, which was very cheap
                    at that time, and placed it in the courthouse yard near the public well and also placed a barrel of
                    sugar, with the head knocked out and tin cups near, so that all could help themselves and make their
                    own "grog". Towards evening a great many were drunk. They said it was too much
                    trouble to make and mix their own "grog", so they poured the barrel of whiskey and
                    the barrel of sugar into the well and then "grog" was ready on a large scale and
                    was pumped freely for all.
            I was twelve years old then and it was my first time to see or know anything about an election for
                    president. The wild yelling, singing, fisticuff and fighting, the bloody noses and faces, all made
                    an impression on me never to be forgotten. Harrison and Tyler were elected president and
                    vice-president, and my father to the legislature.
            One of the first water mills in 
                        Bartholomew county
                     for grinding com into meal for the pioneer's use, was on Flat Rock
                        river, about six miles north of 
                        Columbus
                     near the present county bridge, leading from 
                        Columbus
                     to Taylorsville through the Hawpatch. This mill was a hand mill that some pioneer had
                    brought with him. It was hard work and slow work to grind by hand. This man conceived the idea of
                    running it by water so that it might run day and night to accommodate all who might come. Before
                    this no one was allowed to bring more than one bushel of corn at a time which they generally carried
                    in a sack on the shoulder. When they arrived at the mill they had to await their turn and then turn
                    the mill by hand themselves. During the waiting time they would visit, crack jokes, etc. Nathan Bass
                    who was quite a joker and wit, said "the mill was the most industrious little thing that he
                    ever saw, that when one grain was ground it would jump right on to another."
            There was a place where the water ran very swiftly. The miller cut a small tree that was quite tall
                    and with the help of his neighbors placed it across Flatrock. He put one end in  the fork of a tree and the other end on a post that had a crotch or
                    fork similar to the one on the opposite side of the river. In the center of the river were paddles
                    or wings that extended into the water so that the current of the water would roll the log and would
                    keep it whirling over and over. On the end of the pole next to his mill he put a pulley or large
                    wheel for a belt and from that to his mill, so the rolling of the pole by the water would run his
                    mill day and night if necessary. With this modern improvement customers did not have to wait so long
                    for their meal. This crude water power was the forerunner of a dam being built across the river near
                    this point and a flour-mill, woolen factory and saw-mill located here. This became quite a little
                    manufacturing center at one time, a village of about three hundred people but when the railroad came
                    the factories were all moved to 
                        Columbus
                     near the station. So the village soon became deserted.
            The community changed rapidly. Many country schools of fifty to sixty pupils are entirely out of
                    existence. The land has been bought by the wealthy men and converted into large farms. The children
                    now attend some district center or go to town to school. The timber has been nearly all cut away,
                    the fields are large and cultivated by machinery–they produce more to the acre now than
                    they did fifty years ago, and it is more easily cultivated as the stumps and roots are all gone; the
                    country is all in cultivation and produces three times as much as it did, with less labor. The land
                    now is selling for $200 or $250 per acre. When I first recollect it sold from
                    $2 to $10. My father bought a farm of 100 acres for $10 per acre
                    amounting to $1,000. He also bought the first farm that sold for $50 per acre,
                    one hundred acres for $5,000. Francis J. Crump who was the wealthiest man at that time in
                    the county, owned more land than any one else, said to my father "My God, Judge, what do
                    you mean by paying such a price for farm land, you nor I will never see it worth any more".
                    They both lived to see it sell for $100 per acre. My father's home place of 160
                    acres bought at the government sale in 1821 cost $1.25 an acre. It is still in the Quick
                    name. Father deeded it to my oldest sister Hannah Quick who never married and is now eighty-two
                    years old.
            
            At present it is worth $250 per acre. I have lived to see the price of land go from
                    $5 to $250 per acre. Then two-thirds of it was in timber, now vast fields of
                    golden grain abound.
            Formerly there was a family of ten to fifteen children on every 40 to 160 acres. It was an old saying
                    "that the more children the richer the farmer grew", the more land he could clear
                    and the more he could cultivate without hiring help. The size of the families was the cause of such
                    large schools all through the country. We only had three or four months of school a year. We had no
                    school funds. Each patron would subscribe as many pupils as he thought he could spare and would pay
                    for that many. In addition to that he had to furnish, cut and deliver a half cord of wood to the
                    school house for each scholar. The teacher collected his own money from the patrons. He boarded
                    around among the families–so long for each pupil. He carried his dinner with him.
            Some times we would have a summer school of a few months taught by a lady or some student who wanted
                    to make expenses. At such times the small children would attend the school. Our school books were
                    the elementary spelling book, that had from the A, B, C's to the grammar, Talbot's
                    Arithmetic, the English Reader, the Testament and the Lives of Our Great Men, Washington, Marion,
                    Benjamin Franklin, Daniel Boone, David Crockett and others. Our spelling, reading and grammar we got
                    from the spelling book. I have known children to go to school three months with no book but the
                    alphabet and their spelling lesson pasted on a paddle made of a shingle or piece of board. When it
                    would become soiled so that they could not use it they would have another one pasted over it. Many
                    of our best business men, bankers, jurists and judges only attended school six months at a time, yet
                    they were very successful, some even becoming millionaires and many accumulating their thousands,
                    men who could scarcely write a legible hand.
            When I was a boy there were three brothers by the name of Thayer who came to our country from the
                    east. They were called Yankees. Each bought some cheap land, Joseph on a small creek, called Tuft
                    creek, from the fact that it ran through a low swampy country and was miry so that cattle  could only cross it in certain places. He made his living principally
                    by hunting, trapping and making salaratus by burning a certain kind of timber and using the ashes,
                    and selling it to the housewives to raise the bread in place of soda. He dressed or tanned deer and
                    other skins such as otter, coon, mink or any furbearing animal. He also hunted the wild bees,
                    cutting the trees to get the bees and honey to sell and use. He found a bee tree on the Drake farm.
                    It was a large fine oak tree. The bees were in a large limb near the top. He went to see Mr Drake
                    about cutting the tree. Drake said, "No, it is a fine tree, I want it to make boards when I
                    build a barn, and I'm not able to build for a few years. If you can get the bees without
                    cutting the tree down you are welcome to them." He went away and Drake thought no more
                    about it. Some months afterward, while squirrel hunting in that part of his timber, Drake saw the
                    tree ruined by being bored full of holes and wooden pins driven in from bottom to top of the tree.
                    He had bored a hole about three feet from the ground, put a long heavy pin in it, gotten on it and
                    bored another and so on until he reached the limb that held the bees. This he went out on, sawed the
                    outer end off, then went back to the body of the tree, fastened a rope around the limb and tied it
                    to a pin, then sawed the limb off and let it down with the rope. Mr. Drake said he could not say
                    anything to Thayer, as he had told him he could have the bees if he would not cut down the tree. All
                    he did was blame himself.
            Thayer came by father's once in November. It had been raining for two or three days. He had
                    been to the east fork of White river, trapping and hunting. He led a small
                    donkey loaded with traps and skins. I saw him coming up the road. I told him that a coon lived in
                    one of the top limbs of a large black walnut tree just a little way back of the barn. I told him to
                    put his donkey in the straw shed where he would be in the dry and could eat straw. Then I showed him
                    a black walnut tree that was about three and a half feet in diameter and forty feet to the first
                    limb. I said, "I think the coon lives in the hole in that largest limb." After he
                    examined the tree he said that it had been climbing up and down and showed me the scratches. A
                    hackberry tree grew some eight  feet from the walnut and was very
                    tall. Thayer took off his outer coat, put his little axe in his belt and climbed the hackberry. He
                    cut off the very top and then trimmed the limbs off down to and opposite the large branch of the
                    walnut tree. When he could push the hackberry over on the walnut, he took his belt and fastened it
                    there. He walked over on it to the walnut and out on the limb to the hole, where he knelt and pushed
                    his axe handle into it saying, "Cooney here?" Then he cut a larger hole in the
                    limb, killed the coon with the axe, and threw it down, came down as he went up, put on his coat,
                    picked up the coon and was ready to go, but as wet as water could make him. I took him to the house
                    for something to eat, but he would not go in because his clothes smelled too badly of musk rats and
                    skins. However, I took him to the kitchen where the maid gave him a hot cup of coffee and let him
                    warm, for which he thanked me many times for years.
            His brother, Charles Thayer, bought a small tract of land and commenced clearing it after building a
                    cabin home and covering it with bark from dead trees. He climbed the trees and cut the top out, then
                    as he came down he cut all the limbs off. He said that was easier than to cut the trees down and
                    have the bodies of the tree to burn. Burning the limbs around the tree would kill the tree and it
                    was no more in the way than the stump would be. He finally concluded that it was easier to deaden
                    the trees by chopping around them in June when the sap was up. When dead they could easily he burnt
                    up. He never made a success as he was too lazy to work or hunt except when compelled to. The other
                    brother, Ira, got forty acres of land on Haw creek, built a little corn cracker mill, also a
                    saw-mill and made a fair living. He had but little education, was a great abolitionist and would try
                    to make abolition speeches. For a joke my father had him elected justice of the peace for Flatrock
                    township to defeat a man by the name of Hege who boasted that he had married into the McQueen family
                    which was a royal family and they could control the vote of the township; that no one could beat him
                    but Judge Quick for that office. Father spent a couple of days in the township, and elected Thayer.
                    He gave bond, took the office and a man from near Hope in 
                    Hawcreek township was the first to have a suit in Thayer's court. His name was Calvin
                    Bloom. When he came up for trial he saw that Thayer did not know how to try a case. Bloom got mad,
                    called Thayer a fool and said he would give him a dollar to resign his office. Thayer took the
                    dollar and resigned.
            Joseph Thayer, the hunter and trapper, made more money and a better living than either of his
                    brothers. He had a good farm and raised a large family. He learned how to dress fur pelts, also the
                    deer pelt for gloves and whang-leather for shoe strings and belts. I bought of him two very fine
                    otter skins nicely dressed for my wife to have her first set of furs, and when they were made up
                    they were very beautiful. The trapping and hunting of the fur-bearing animals was profitable in
                    those days, and it was also necessary in order to protect the corn crops, as the raccoons, opossums
                    and squirrels were very numerous. As many as 70 or 80 were killed in a day.
            The wild turkeys were also numerous, the deer would eat the corn at any stage of its growth to
                    maturity. The raccoons and opossums infested the corn fields by night, breaking down the stalks and
                    eating the roasting ears, or leaving it to go to waste. There was something to destroy the corn crop
                    from the time it was planted until it was matured and in the crib. The crow and the chipmunk would
                    pull it up when it began to come up, to get the grain, the muskrat would cut it down at any stage
                    where it was near the water, so that eternal vigilance was necessary on the part of the farmer. His
                    children and their dogs were continuously on the outlook for vermin, in order to have plenty of meal
                    for their johnny cakes, corn dodgers and to feed their hogs for meat or bacon for the coming season.
                    They gathered their corn by pulling the ear off the stalk, hauling and piling under sheds, then
                    husking at their leisure. They saved the husks for feed for the cows. Poorer farmers who did not
                    have sheds would put the corn in a large pile, make a corn shucking by inviting all the neighbors to
                    come at night and help. They would furnish them some whiskey to drink and after the corn was husked
                    give them their suppers and a dance.
            
            In the fall and winter the farmer and his boys would have their turn. Then the raccoons paid for
                    their pilfering with their pelts. Snares, dead falls and steel traps were set about the corn fields
                    and in places where they frequented such as bayous and marshes, where frogs abounded which were
                    their natural food. In this way many coons and fur-bearing animals were caught.
            When the men and boys wanted a night of sport they went coon hunting. A number would get together,
                    some with axes, others to carry the old fashioned tin lantern, or torches made of hickory bark,
                    which could be replenished at any old shell bark hickory tree. All the coon dogs, always including
                    the lop-eared hounds, followed. They would start soon after dark and go along the creeks, marshes or
                    pawpaw thickets, and when the dogs would strike a trail music would begin. Then the hunters would
                    rush through the woods over logs through the brush or briers over the fences aiming to keep within
                    hearing distance of the dogs. When they ran the raccoon to ground or up a tree all would make a rush
                    crying, "They have him treed." If the tree was not too large or valuable the axes
                    were plied at once. When the tree was about ready to fall the members of the party except an axe man
                    and one torch man would scatter well out of the reach of the falling tree and hold the dogs until
                    the tree fell to the ground. Then the dogs would rush in and make short work of the coon. The party
                    would move on till the dogs struck another coon trail or treed a possum in a bush. A damp foggy
                    night was best as the scent of the animal was more perceptible and more animals were out on the
                    trail so that many fine coon pelts would be secured besides those of a few possums thrown in for
                    good measure. The skins were taken off at once and the next day they were carefully cleaned and
                    stretched and hung or tacked against the cabin to dry.
            There are always some funny incidents happen with all such hunting parties. I recollect that once on
                    a hunt we had a man with us who was slow of speech and stammered. The dogs treed a coon up a small
                    dead elm in a corn field. He said, "It will be hard to cut and I will climb it and shake
                    the raccoon out." He proceeded to climb, at once, with the  aid of the men boosting him until he could reach the first limb. He got
                    up quite a ways when he caught hold of a dead limb that broke. He fell to the ground, immediately
                    the dogs piled onto him and pulled at him as though they would tear him to pieces. He hollered,
                    "Gi-gi-git out–I'm n-n-no rah-coon," and the wit of our crowd
                    was a 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Dutchman who roared out laughing. Someone said, "What's the matter,
                    Charlie?" "Why, that fool can't say coon without putting rah to it when
                    he is being half killed."
            Our next catch was a fine, large, fat opossum which Charlie proposed to eat, building a fire to roast
                    it. He went home, which was not far, and got some bread, as his wife had baked a brick oven full
                    that day. One of the boys went with him and carried a torch. We soon had a fine fire and the opossum
                    roasting near it. Presently Charlie and his torch-bearer came with large loaves of bread and two
                    apple pies–we all gave him three cheers. We sat around the fire "and told
                    hunting experiences and jokes. When the opossum was done we had a feast not forgotten soon. All gave
                    Charlie's wife a vote of thanks for her bread and pie and passed a resolution:
                    "Resolved, that Mrs. Charlie Bruner was the best baker in the township." After
                    which we adjourned for the night and plodded our weary way homeward.
            The first railroad was built in this state from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     via 
                  Vernon, Columbus
               , Edinburg and 
                        Franklin
                    . When it was completed as far as 
                        Columbus
                    , there was one train a day each way. Our roads through the state were unimproved and
                    principally through the woods without bridges across any of the water courses. My mother was very
                    sick and my father wanted Dr. Todd from 
                        Vernon
                    . There were no telephones, telegraph or daily mail. The quickest, best and only way was
                    to send someone on horseback for the doctor–a distance of twenty-five miles. It was ten
                    o'clock at night when father called me, saying, "Get up and get ready as soon as
                    you can, you must go to 
                        Vernon
                     for the doctor." He then called my older brother and told him to go and get
                    Jock saddled and bring him out for me to ride, he being the best traveling horse we had. When I was
                    ready to start, father said, "Don't spare the horse, you must get there by six in
                    the morning. Go to Dr. Todd's home  and, tell him to
                    make the morning train at eight a. m. I will meet him at 
                        Columbus
                    . After you have done that take your horse to the livery barn, water and feed him, then
                    get your breakfast. Ask the landlord for a bed and tell him to call you in four hours, then you
                    start home and give the horse his time."
            My commission filled to the letter, by ten o'clock I was on the way home. After riding some
                    distance I heard my name called. On looking down the stream I saw a man with a bucket. I asked what
                    he wanted. He said, "Come take dinner with me." I was tired and hungry, so quickly
                    replied, "Alright." I rode down into the woods a short distance to a little old
                    log cabin, with a mud and stick chimney and puncheon floor. Here my friend introduced me to his
                    wife. He told her I had come to dinner with him. She said, "Wood Herod, you ought to be
                    ashamed of yourself–you know that we have nothing to eat but corn meal and the mussels
                    you have gathered." "That's all right," he said, "he
                    will enjoy them–you get things ready while I feed his horse." He then went to
                    his fathers corn crib, not far from there, and got corn enough for the horse. His wife built the
                    fire in the fireplace and made corn bread and baked it in a skillet. He fixed the fire to put the
                    mussels on. We had a good dinner and I enjoyed my first mussels. As I was tired and hungry, the
                    novelty of it also made it enjoyable. The menu was corn dodgers, mussels on the half shell and water
                    from the creek for dessert. The furnishing of the cabin was unique and home-made. The seats were
                    wooden stools, the table was boards laid across a couple of benches, the bedstead was holes bored in
                    the logs, a rail put in them, the other end in a post at right angles and boards gathered from the
                    driftwood laid on the rails and extending to the cracks between the logs. There was a straw mattress
                    on that. With a box or two for their clothing, this constituted the furnishing of the house. Mine
                    host was only seventeen–his wife twenty-three. They had married against his
                    father's will, so this was the cause of their living where they were and the way they were.
                    His father, James Herod, was well to do, owned a good farm and was sheriff of the county. The
                    hostess had no relatives in Indiana but a sister, who was her father-in-law's  second wife, whom she called on at times. She finally-picked up courage
                    and called on her father-in-law and told him "that if he would help them some they could
                    make a living." He asked her how and she told him that she had been to 
                        Columbus
                     and found a house on the street near the courthouse square that they could rent
                    furnished. If he would rent it for them, they could make a living keeping boarders and giving meals.
                    Woody could peel potatoes, wait table, wash dishes and she could do the cooking and they could make
                    a good living. He consented. This was the beginning of quite a good hotel, the second in 
                        Columbus
                    . They continued in the hotel business all their lives, raised quite a family of
                    respectable children who acquired a good common school education, some of them married very well and
                    were good citizens.
            Joseph Cox was a Pennsylvanian by birth, but at an early period left the place of his nativity and
                    settled in 
                        North Carolina
                    , then later in 
                        Kentucky
                    . He was one of the first comers into the county of 
                        Bartholomew
                     then part of a vast wilderness belonging to 
                        Delaware county
                    . He came in 1818 when he was about fifty-three years old. He followed the Indian trail
                    and made the first wagon road with his ox cart. He built a shack on Haw creek about three miles from
                    where 
                        Columbus
                     was afterwards located. He was a man of considerable worth and intelligence, active and
                    energetic. His wife was Mary and his children as follows: Thomas, William, Gideon, Peter, John,
                    Jacob, Jesse, Joseph, Millie, James and Elias. Thomas led a horse on which rode his mother and two
                    of the children. William walked beside the ox-team with his father, Millie and Elias were on
                    horseback a little to the rear while the remainder of the children were in the travel-stained,
                    dust-covered wagon. Joseph Cox was armed with a gun and the older boys carried axes. They halted on
                    the bank of the creek and took a survey of the place. The children peeped from the wagon and later
                    tumbled out, two of them engaged in a wrestling match. Mary left the wagon, being solicitous about
                    Millie and Elias. Cox said, "Well, Mary, we have traveled a long way since we left Carolina
                    and 
                        Virginia
                    , and we have seen all kinds of country, but I tell you, I haven't seen any
                    country in all this time that I  like as well as this around
                    here. I don't think that we will find a place that is any better to settle than right here.
                    What do you think?" "Well, if you are a mind to stop here, I am willing."
                    "I was just thinking as we were riding along here that this is the land that flows with
                    milk and honey. The hunting and the trapping ought to be mighty good here and we can soon clear a
                    field." "You are right, Mary, the mountains of old 
                        Virginia
                     are pretty enough to look at, but this land along this valley is a better place to get
                    a living." "Yes, Joseph, God will bless us here and other settlers will soon be
                    coming along this wagon track that we have cleared out. I allow this will be a good place to bring
                    up our children; you know we have a fair sized family, Joseph, and we want to do the best we can for
                    them." "Yes, Mary, that's so and they are all girls but ten. We are the
                    first here, but others will come. About our graves in this county, cities and towns will spring up
                    and crowd the farms that we are to clear. In the generations yet to come, some may be curious to
                    know who was the first white woman that came into this land which has upon it the smile of the Lord.
                    Then, people will be happy to know that your name was Mary and that a woman bearing that name was
                    their Pioneer Mother."
            The following letters are printed here, not for any historical information they may contain, but for
                    the flavor of the time.
            
                    
                  
                     
                         INDIANAPOLIS, Dec. 18th, A. D. 1841. 
                         Most affectionate and loving companion:
                        I now take my pen in hand to inform you that I am in good health at present. Hoping
                                    that these few lines may find you enjoying your health much better than when I left
                                    home. I have had much uneasiness for you but through the mercies of an allwise
                                    Creator I hope to hear of your recovering your health together with your family
                                    enjoying peace and satisfaction or at least so much so as possible. I have taken
                                    boarding at Mr. Lingenfelter's the same place that I was last winter. I
                                    should have written sooner but the mail has not left here for 
                                        Columbus
                                     since I came on account of bad road. The members are all in health at
                                    this time. I expect to come to see you next Saturday no providential accident
                                    occurring, when I hope I shall find you with your family enjoying the blessings of
                                    life. I wish you to spare no pains nor money for the recovery of your health and
                                    satisfaction.  faction. The time of our meeting I
                                    hope is not far distant when we shall have the pleasure of conversing with each
                                    other.
                        Yours most affectionately, TUNIS QUICK.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        N. B. My sons, I would just say to you that it is the sincere wish and desire of your
                                    affectionate father that you obey your mother in all things without murmuring in the
                                    least as she has been very low. I wish you not to fret or disobey her in any manner
                                    whatever, attend on her attentively, spare no pains and you shall be rewarded.
                                    Attend to keeping good fires. Attend to feeding all stock and watering in due time.
                                    I would just say to my little daughter that I wish you to behave very pretty and
                                    mind your mother and grandmother and you shall be called the prettiest girl in town.
                                    My sons, I wish you to have in mind what is above written so that you may have the
                                    praise of all that know you.
                        Yours affectionately, SUSANNAH QUICK
                            TUNIS QUICK. House of
                                    Representatives,
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        INDIANAPOLIS, Jan. 10, A. D. 1842.
                        My dear and affectionate companion:
                        I again take my pen in hand to inform you that I am well at this time and hope when
                                    these few lines come to hand they will find you with yours and mine in health. I
                                    have not received any letter from you since I was at home. I heard from you by Mr.
                                    J. F. Jones and by him sent you a letter but have not as yet received any answer.
                                    The mail had missed coming for three days but came in this morning, but nothing for
                                    me from my beloved of all. There is some sickness here, mostly bad colds. There is
                                    at this time some five or six of the members confined to their rooms. Hugh Barnes
                                    departed this life yesterday morning, age sixty-nine years. He was the sergeant at
                                    arms in-our House. There was a resolution adopted that the legislatures should wear
                                    crape on the left arm ten days in honor of that venerable old man and also that the
                                    members of both houses meet at the place where the corpse lay and march in double
                                    file after the corpse to the Methodist church, where the Rev. Mr. Good preached his
                                    funeral. I went in that procession and then went to the place of interment to pay
                                    the last respects. George Boon also departed this life last night, age fifty-seven
                                    years, who has been eleven years a representative, a man much respected. It is
                                    supposed that his friends will take him home which is about one hundred miles. A Mr.
                                    Hannah is at this time not expected to live. Those men were all complaining when
                                    they came here and have possibly exposed themselves too much for their situation,
                                    sitting in a warm room and then going out without their overcoats on, which I
                                    believe to be very injurious to health. I have been very careful myself and have
                                    enjoyed as good health if not the best health I have for several winters. I am
                                    getting quite fleshy. I can't  tell you
                                    when I will be at home. I expect the House will not adjourn before the 8th of
                                    February, but I don't think that I can stay here until then without coming
                                    to see you once in the time but if business is so that I can't come you
                                    must all take the will for the deed. I should be very glad to see you all but as it
                                    is I must attend to the business of the country. In your next letter write how your
                                    father and mother are and all the children and father and mother and the neighbors.
                                    I should be glad to hear of their welfare and give my respects to those who inquire
                                    after me and tell them that I send my respects to them.
                        Affectionately SUSANNAH QUICK
                            TUNIS QUICK.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        INDIANAPOLIS, Jan. 13, A. D. 1842
                        My dear wife:
                        I now am sitting in my room and thinking about her I love and although I have nothing
                                    strange to inform you of yet if I could know that you could even be as much
                                    delighted to read my poor dry letters as I am to read those interesting
                                    communications I received from you written with your own hand, I should be tempted
                                    to write every day. My dear, I see from your letter that you have had a bad spell
                                    since I left home. Oh, if I could have been with you to have administered to your
                                    necessity it would have been a comfort to me to have the satisfaction of waiting on
                                    you, as I expect you needed my assistance. I hope when these few lines come to hand
                                    they will find you in better health than when you wrote to me. I have had my health
                                    very well since I left you. I wish you to take special care of yourself and if you
                                    need anything at all that money would bring, I wish you to have it gotten for your
                                    benefit and if you need a doctor send for him as soon as possible, but I hope you
                                    will not need one. I hope for your better health. I should be very glad to come home
                                    before we adjourn, but the business is so pressing that I don't think I can
                                    come home until we adjourn except your health gets worse than when you wrote to me
                                    and I hope the Lord will bless you in your affliction. I hope you will be as much
                                    reconciled as the nature of the case will permit. Although we be at a distance at
                                    this time I hope it will not be long until we shall have the pleasure of conversing
                                    with each other face to face and not by letter. Tell my little daughter, Hannah,
                                    that her Pop is well and wants to see her very much and Josiah, my sweet little son,
                                    you must be a very good boy and obey your mother and Pap will bring you and Hannah
                                    some candy. I think my son Gorrell will be a good boy. My son, you must obey your
                                    mother and mind your work. I don't think you will be bad. I want you to be
                                    a very smart boy so that when I come home I can have your mother tell me how good
                                    her little boy was while I was gone. Morgan, I wish you to attend to business like a
                                    man and see that the horses, cattle, sheep, calves, hogs are all attended to with
                                    food and water and attend to  all other
                                    thing's the best you can until I come home and don't impose upon
                                    your little brothers and above all take care of your dear mother and obey her in all
                                    her commands without murmuring and also your grandparents and you, my sons, Spencer
                                    and James, I want you to obey your mother in all she may be pleased to tell you to
                                    do. Do it without any murmuring. Mind your work but be good boys. 1 shall be at home
                                    before very long, say two weeks. Nancy, I want you to be very smart and good so that
                                    when I see you that I may have the pleasure of hearing that you have been a very
                                    good girl and I will buy you and Hannah each a new frock, if you will be good girls.
                                    My dear, it is now after ten o'clock and I have been up every night this
                                    week until after this time. I shall have to close this letter as I want to put it in
                                    the office very early in the morning before the mail leaves. I would be glad if you
                                    would write to me once a week anyhow and oftener if you think proper. When I have an
                                    opportunity to take your letter and read it over it appears like some faint
                                    murmuring conversation compared with that when we are in each other's
                                    embrace. My dear, I sincerely crave your happiness and your special company but as
                                    we are at this time at a distance I hope the Lord may bless us severally as we need
                                    so that before long we may meet again.
                        Yours with very tender affection,
                        SUSANNAH
                        
                        QUICK
                            TUNIS QUICK.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        N. B. Give my kindest love to your father and mother and mine, also give my best
                                    regards to 
                                        Milton
                                     and Mary Nading and all who may inquire after me. With love.
                        Yours, TUNIS QUICK.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        INDIANAPOLIS, Jan. 19, A. D. 1842
                        Most affectionate and loving companion:
                        I now take my pen in hand to inform you that I am well at present, hoping that when
                                    these few lines come to hand they will find you and ours in health. I received yours
                                    of the 11th inst., which informed me that you were much better than when you wrote
                                    to me last, which I was glad to hear that you were still mending. This was a great
                                    satisfaction to me. I was at the postoffice late this evening, but no letter. I did
                                    hope to get one but I was disappointed. I call at the postoffice every day. I shall
                                    be glad to hear from you. It does me a great deal of good to read your letters,
                                    knowing the confidence you place in me and to think of conversing with each other by
                                    letter it does me much good though we be at a distance from each other. Yet when I
                                    read your loving letters it gives me a great deal of pleasure hoping that ere long
                                    we shall embrace each other again and have each other's troubles. I would
                                    fain hope that when these few lines come to you they will find you up and at least
                                    up and going about the house and your pretty little daughter Hannah by your side or
                                    fondling on your knee. What a satisfaction this is, my sweet little daughter and my
                                    companion, I hope to see you all in health the 31st day of  January, 1842. I shall start for home, I think, on
                                    Sunday, the 30th inst. I want to see you and all very much. I hope the Lord will
                                    bless you all and give you peace and health, and fortitude to you, my dear, to bear
                                    up under your affliction so that you can say, "Thy will, Oh Lord, and not
                                    mine be done," for we learn that all things work together for them that
                                    love God. My dear, I should have come before now, if I could have left my business,
                                    but it appears to me that my presence was needed every day and is still needed but I
                                    think now that I never will spend another winter in the legislature, but spend the
                                    rest of my time at or about home where I can have the pleasure of my family which is
                                    the greatest pleasure to me of any other way that I have ever tried. You wrote to me
                                    that the children all behave very well which pleases me. I hope they will continue
                                    to be good children and I believe they will and obey you, their tender mother. My
                                    sons, I want you to attend to your work like little men. Mind and do your work in
                                    good time and take care of all the creatures and don't have any grumbling
                                    but mind your work night and morning and at all other times when needed and above
                                    all mind and obey your mother and be good boys. I shall soon be at home. I wish also
                                    to write you again next week and after that I think I shall talk with you at home.
                                    You told me that Amos Crane said that Russ had one hundred dollars for you and you
                                    did not know whether to take it or not. Don't take any money from any
                                    person, that is paper money, except it be on the State Bank of Indiana. I wrote to
                                    Amos Crane concerning the money he owes us and told him that I would receive it when
                                    I came home. Noah Sims wrote to me saying that Russ had five hundred dollars for me
                                    and he, Noah, wanted to borrow it for one year. I wrote to him that he could not
                                    have it under any consideration. I don't want to loan money to any person
                                    at all. I must now close my letter with all tender affections to you and my loving
                                    and tender companion.
                        TUNIS QUICK.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        N. B. Give my best respects to those who have inquired after me and to father and
                                    mother in particular and all the relatives.
                        SUSANNAH QUICK
                        
                        TUNIS QUICK.
                        Mr. Terrill has not been here.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  1 These letters were without envelopes. All were sealed with a wafer,
                        postage was 10c and paid by the recipient.–M. O. B.
            
         
         
         
            REVIEWS
            
               Rededicating America. The Life and Recent Speeches of Warren G. Harding. By FREDERICK E. SCHORTEMEIER, Bobbs-Merrill Co., 1920, pp. 256.
            The biographical part of the volume consists of 33 pages, a brief straightforward account of a rather
                    uneventful life. Mr. Harding comes of a plain American family, nothing sensational either in the
                    family history or his own. His life is easily understood because he has always done the sensible,
                    practical thing.
            The twenty speeches given cover a rather wide range, but running through all is the moderation,
                    sanity and caution that characterize the man. Speech of acceptance, Safeguarding America,
                    Americanization, Theodore Roosevelt, McKinley, 
                  Washington, Lincoln, Grant
               , The Declaration of War with 
                        Germany
                    , America in the War, The Republican Party and America, Problems of America, Excess
                    Profits-Tax, Auto-Intoxication, Back to Normal, The Philippine Islands, The 
                        Knox
                     Resolutions, Some Specifications, and the Peace Treaty, are the titles. They cover a
                    period of time extending from 1916 to 1920 and admirably illustrate the political philosophy of the
                    author.
         
         
            
               Life and Times of Stevens Thompson Mason, the Boy Governor of 
                            Michigan
                        . By LAWTON T. HEMANS. This is Vol.
                    – of the 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission.
            Governor Mason was a native of 
                        Virginia
                    , a member of the famous Mason family, best represented in American history by George
                    Mason. About 1812 the family moved to 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 1830 the father, John T. Mason, was appointed secretary of the territory of 
                        Michigan
                    . In due time and after many discouraging delays to 
                        Michigan
                     it became a state and Stevens T. Mason, a Jacksonian Democrat, its first governor, two
                    terms, 1836–40. His administration covers the stirring times of Internal Improvements and
                    Mr. Hemans has handled the political history of that period fully. For this reason, principally, the
                    volume is of more than statewide interest.
         
         
         
            
               Publication of the 
                            Nebraska
                         State Historical Society, Vol. XIX, edited by ALBERT WALKINS, historian of the Society, Lansing, 1919, pp. 357.
            This volume contains seventeen papers dealing with the early history of the state. Five of these
                    papers deal with Indians; seven deal with early settlers and settlements; one deals with the Swedes
                    in 
                        Nebraska
                    ; one with the Bohemians; one with women in territorial 
                        Nebraska
                    ; and others with early political questions. The period covered, in general, is that
                    from 1860 to 1880. The papers are well written and well edited. The footnotes, especially, show an
                    immense amount of careful investigation. This feature is especially. commendable. The documentary
                    article on contested elections in 
                        Nebraska
                     is a fine commentary on pioneer politics of that period and illustrates a phase of
                    history through which nearly all our states have gone.
         
         
            
               Welfare Campaigns in 
                            Iowa
                        , by MARCUS L. HANSON, State Historical
                    Society of 
                        Iowa
                    , 1920.
            This small volume of 320 pages is a record of the work in 
                        Iowa
                     of the Young Men's Christian Association, Young Women's Christian
                    Association, Knights of 
                        Columbus
                    , American Library Association, Salvation Army, Jewish Welfare Board, and the War chest.
                    The volume is a beautiful example of book making.
         
         
            A series of interesting articles on Hine's raid into Indiana have lately appeared in the 
                  
                            Crawford County
                         Democrat of English. These were written by H. H. Pleasant, superintendent of
                    schools at 
                        Leavenworth
                    . Mr. Pleasant has done quite a bit of research into the early history of 
                        Crawford county
                    . This county is in a class of three or four which so far have escaped the county
                    historian.
            THE
                    Annual Report of the Mount Vernon Ladies Association of the Union has been
                    received by the favor of Mrs. Benjamin D. Walcott of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the vice-regent for Indiana. This association cares for the home of 
                        Washington
                     at 
                        Mount Vernon
                    . There were 141,489 visitors to the home last year.
            
            
               The Book of 
                            Terre Haute
                        , a 20-page pamphlet, was published by the Chamber of Commerce to set forth the
                    commercial condition and prospects of the city.
            WHERE the 
                        Salem
                     witches were hanged is the leading article in the January Essex Institute
                        Historical Collections. It is written by Sidney Perley.
            THE April, 1920, 
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Historical Magazine has three valuable articles. The first is a historical
                    account of John A. Murrell and Daniel Crenshaw by Park Marshall. These romantic horsethieves and
                    highwaymen almost drove the sanctimonious east of the sixties and seventies to despair. They turn
                    out to be very mediocre criminals. For dash and imagination they would hardly class with the
                    bootleggers of today. The larger part of the Magazine is taken up with John Sevier's
                    journal. It is prepared by Joh. H. Dewitt, president of the society.
            
               Propaganda in History is the title of a small pamphlet recently published by Lyon
                    G. Tyler of 
                        Richmond
                    , Va. Dr. Tyler makes frantic but vain struggles against being swallowed up by the Cape
                    Cod myth. It's no use, Dr. Tyler, if you did not have an ancestor in that forlorn band,
                    pick one out and adopt him as soon as possible and stop singing out of tune. Change your name to
                    Adams.
            THE Black Belt of 
                        Alabama
                     by Herdman T. Cleland in the Geographical Review for December, 1920,
                    is one of the most interesting and suggestive studies published during the quarter.
            THE leading article in the Quarterly Journal of the 
                            New York
                         State Historical Association is a life of Jedediah Peck, father of the public
                    school system of the state of 
                        New York
                    .
            THREE historical articles of general interest in the April-July, 1920, 
                  
                            Michigan
                         History Magazine are Reminiscences of life at Mackinac, 1835–1863,
                    by Constance S. Patton, Story of a famous mission L'arbre Croche, 
                        Michigan
                    , by H. Bedford-Jones and Fort Wilkins, at Copper Harbor, Michigan, by Lew Allen Chase.
            
            
               Smith College Studies for April has an article by Mary Breeze Fuller on the
                    Development of History and Government in Smith College from 1875 to 1920, together with a list of
                    publications by faculty and Alumnae. The July number is taken up by an article on Influences toward
                    radicalism in 
                        Connecticut
                    , 1754–1775.
            PERHAPS the most interesting chapters in the October Journal of
                        History is a collection of editorials written by Joseph Smith. They deal with Censorship of
                    the church press, Sensational preaching, Deportment in the house of worship, Responsibility, Books
                    of reference, When will Christ come, and Wisdom as a gift.
            IN the January Catholic Historical Review Rev. F. G. Holweck
                    submits a tentative American martyrology. Among them are some known to Indiana history: Father
                    Gaston, killed by the Tamarois Indians of 
                        Illinois
                     in 1730, Antonin Senat, a Jesuit killed with 
                        Vincennes
                     by the Chickasaws in 1736, Jacques Gravier, killed by Peorias in 1708, and Gabriel de
                    la Ribourde, killed by the Kickapoos in 1681.
            THE January 
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review is the 
                        Missouri
                     centennial number. A century of 
                        Missouri
                     Agriculture by T; B. Mumford, A Century of education in 
                        Missouri
                     by C. A. Phillips, A Century of 
                        Missouri
                     politics by C. H. McClure, A Model Centennial program by E. M. Violette and One Hundred
                    years of Banking in 
                        Missouri
                     by Breckinridge Jones are the titles of the review articles. The leading article, The 
                        Missouri
                     tavern, is by W. B. Stevens, president of the society.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Minnesota
                         Historical Bulletin for August, 1920, is the dedication number for the new
                    Historical Society building. This society was incorporated October 20, 1849. It has always had a
                    home in the state house. It has published seventeen volumes of state history. The dedicatory
                    address, Middle Western Pioneer Democracy, delivered by F. J. Turner, is published in the August Bulletin.
            
            THE September Register of the 
                            Kentucky
                         State Historical Society has an article on U. S. Marines from 
                        Kentucky
                     in the world war, another on 
                        Kentucky
                     Union troops in the  Civil war, and one on the
                    History of 
                        Woodford county
                    . The January Register has articles on the Turner family, Lieut.
                    Governor Thruston Ballard, Mrs. Desha Breckinridge and a continuation of the History of 
                        Woodford county
                    . The 
                        Kentucky
                     Historical Society is now at home in its own building, the state having given to it the
                    old capitol at 
                        Frankfort
                    . This is an interesting old building dating from 1829. Almost a century of 
                        Kentucky
                     history clusters around it. The Register dates from 1903. The society
                    was incorporated in 1838. Such names as John Rowan, Henry Pirtle, George D. Prentice, John H. Harney
                    and Humphrey Marshall appear on its charter. This good fortune of the 
                        Kentucky
                     society leaves Indiana alone in its class–without home, friends, or funds.
                    Indiana richly deserves the place it holds in the written history of the nation.
            THE
                    Palimpsest of February, 1921, is devoted to roads under the headings, The Old
                    Military road, Phantoms on the old road, and Along the Military road. This is a small monthly paper
                    published by the State Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    .
            The January Palimpsest contains two good pioneer stories, Lost in an 
                        Iowa
                     blizzard and Early Cabins in 
                        Iowa
                    
            
            
               Second Annual Report of the Department of Conservation –year ending
                    September 30, 1920. This new department was created in 1919 and is a combination of Geology,
                    Entomology, Natural Gas, Forestry, Lands and Waters, and Fish and Game departments. Richard Lieber
                    is director. The Division of Geology is under W. N. Logan and has for its purpose the investigation
                    of the mineral resources of the state. During the past year it has published seven or eight
                    bulletins of scientific information. The division of Entomology is in charge of Frank N. Wallace.
                    This division makes war on bugs. Chas. C. Deam is state forester. His problem is to study forest
                    conditions in the state and help improve them. The state has a forest of 2000 acres under Mr.
                    Deam's supervision.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Iowa
                         Journal of History and Politics for October, 1920, has only one article, The
                    Work of the 
                        Iowa
                     Code Commission,  mission, by Jacob Van der Zee.
                    The January, 1921, number contains articles by John F. Sly on Providing for a State Constitutional
                    Convention; a History of Taxation in 
                        Iowa
                    , 1910–1920, by John E. Brindley, and the Operation of the Primary Election
                    Law in 
                        Iowa
                     by Frank Edward Horack.
            GRAND Army of the Republic, Department of Indiana, held its forty-first annual
                    encampment at 
                        Bloomington
                     May 25, 26 and 27, 1920. There are now 231 posts in the organization with a membership
                    of 6,309. The loss by death during the past year was 550. A full account of the encampment as well
                    as the annual reports and statistics are given in the Proceedings, Vol. XLI.
            THE editor has received copies of two STANDARD TESTS for history pupils in the public schools. One of these is prepared by A. S. Barr of
                    the department of education, Evans-ville college; the other by C. G. VanNest, critic teacher of
                    history in the 
                        Bloomington
                     high school. The first is for American history, the last for European. There is not
                    space here for a criticism of these tests. Both look' in the direction of a standardized
                    body of facts to be learned by the pupils.
            
                    A SUBSCRIPTION PAPER
                        FOR
                        THE ERECTION
                        OF
                        A CHURCH
                        IN JEFFERSON COUNTY
                        IN
                        THE YEAR 1818.
                    
                  
                            Jefferson County
                        , State of Indiana, Graham Township.
                    A subscription paper for the purpos of building a meeting house for the benefit of the M. E.
                        Church to be built on the land of Addan Troutman neare the raccoon spring, the said Troutman
                        will furnish one or more acres of land if necessary, for which he will make a deed for ever for
                        building the meeting house on, and for a grave yard, and further, the said Troutman will give as
                        much back timber as is necessary for building the house, to be 25 feet by 22, the logs to be
                        hewen to eight inches thick, a cabbin roof, the fire place to be cut out ten feete wide, a
                        backwall, hearth and james of stone, cat and clay chimney, a plank floore, two windows and a
                        doore.
                    All who may think propper to subscribe this paper are requested to meete at the raccoon spring on
                        the first Saturday in August, it being the first day of August, and there to appoint three or
                        more Trustees to superintend to building of the house or to make such alterations as the
                        majority may think propper, the building of the  house to be
                        finished against Christmas, at which time these preasants each subscriber to hold himself to pay
                        the same annexed to his name.
                    July 21st, 1818.
                    
                  
                     G. Campbell
                     $10.00
                  
                  
                     James Lining
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     Robert Smith
                     1.50
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Milton
                                 Robertson
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     Joshua Deputy
                     5.00
                  
                  
                     Alex B. Wilson
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     Thomas Ammons
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     Samuel Hutchinson
                     .50
                  
                  
                     Patrick Willson
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     Thomas Gasaway
                     5.00
                  
                  
                     John Gudgel
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     Sam White
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     Thomas Jackson
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     R. Whitwood
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     Louis Black
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     W. C. Wilson
                     $1.50
                  
                  
                     Ezekiel Philipps,
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     John Philipps,
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     Ebben Tebbets,
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     Andrew Cordrey,
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     Benji Ramsey
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     Wm Whitesderson,
                     .50
                  
                  
                     A. Chitwood
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     Joshua Tull
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     Joseph Wiley
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     Geor Wilson,
                     .50
                  
                  
                     Condrey
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     T R Condrey
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     Evan Thomas
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     Henry Dixon
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     Wm D Wilson
                     1.50
                  
                  
                     Moses Wilson
                     1.50
                  
               
                    The size of the house 30 by 24 feet, the logs to be well hewed to size enough to face nine
                        inches, seven inches thick, the sils to be oak, also the sleepers, and one round next to the
                        sils of oak, the highth of said house twelve feet to the squair, a cabbin roof, a twelve light
                        window, poplar plank floore one inch and half thick, about six inches in breadth, or not to
                        exceed the same, one doore about four feete wide, a plain shutter for the doore and also for the
                        windows, a rock under each corner, also under the middle of each set to rais the house from the
                        earth about eight inches, all the work to be done in a workman like manner and agreeable to the
                        direction of the trustees.
                    N. B. Also two more windows, each twelve lights with shutters and glass in the one behind the
                        pulpit. Said house is to be chinked with stone and plastered with lime and sand.
                    JOHN M. CRORY, Undertaker.
                        $59.00
                
         
         
         
            Historical News
            The annual meeting of the Indiana Historical Society, on December 30, was marked by the resignation
                    of Judge D. W. Howe, who has been president of the society for twenty years, but who withdrew on
                    account of failing health. The resignation was accepted with regret, and a testimonial resolution as
                    to his services adopted. Officers for the ensuing year were elected as follows: President, Chas. W.
                    Moores; first vice-president, J. A. Woodburn; second vice-president, W. E. English; third
                    vice-president, Harlow Lindley; treasurer, Chas. E. Coffin; recording secretary, J. P. Dunn;
                    corresponding secretary, F. B. Wynn; executive committee, John H. Holliday, Logan Esarey, Mrs. Frank
                    Athon Morrison, Lee Burns, and Eliza Gordon Browning.
            The society decided to make one meeting of the Indiana Historical Conference next December a public
                    meeting of the Indiana Historical Society. Harlow Lindley and Lucy M. Elliott were appointed to
                    prepare the program. Resolutions asking the legislature to make provisions for preserving the battle
                    flags of Indiana troops in the Spanish-American and World wars were adopted. Dr. Wynn, Mrs. Morrison
                    and Miss Elliott were appointed a committee to prepare plans for securing the cooperation of all
                    societies interested in Indiana history, and report to the executive committee.
            The second annual conference on Indiana state history held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     December 10–11, 1920, under the auspices of the Society of Indiana pioneers
                    was marked by a number of interesting papers. The three main topics, considered at some length,
                    were: Historical team-work; Patriotic and war history; and The centennial spirit. Dr. Benjamin F.
                    Shambaugh of the 
                        Iowa
                     State Historical Society was the speaker for the two evening programs. The proceedings
                    of the conference will be printed in full by the Indiana Historical Commission, and distributed to
                    all interested persons.
            The public speaking classes of the 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     extension center of Indiana University gave a Revue of the history  of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     at the 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     high school auditorium, January 26 and 27. The revue was in the form of an oral pageant
                    of the growth of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     from 1614 [?] to the present time. The program was in two parts: Part one, beginning
                    with the prologue the Spirit of History (
                        Columbia
                    ) retrospective and prophetic of the entire history of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , and ending with the passing of the Indians in 1818; part two, beginning with the
                    prologue the Spirit of History (Indiana) covering the period of history from 1819 to 1854, and
                    ending with a resume of the establishment and growth of civic and social institutions. Ross V.
                    Lockridge, director of the employment and welfare department of the 
                        Wayne
                     knitting mills, had general supervision of the Revue, ably assisted by a cast composed
                    of citizens of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    .
            A meeting of the Southwestern Indiana Historical Society was held at the home of Mr. and Mrs. George
                    S. Clifford, 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, on the evening of January 31st. Kate Milner Rabb of 
                        Indianapolis
                     gave an enjoyable talk on The Romance of Indiana History. Many members were present
                    from the eight counties represented in the society. The next meeting of the Southwestern Historical
                    Society will be held in 
                        Perry county
                    , when 
                        Lafayette
                     Springs will be dedicated by a program in the form of a pageant under, the supervision
                    of Thomas James de la Hunt of 
                        Cannelton
                    , Indiana.
            
               
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, will celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of the naming of the town some
                    time in the late spring or summer. The county seat was first named Tiptona. The county was organized
                    January 8, 1821, and it has been suggested that the county and city celebrations be held at the same
                    time. George Pence of the State Board of Accounts has been asked to prepare an historical address.
            At a meeting of the Association for the Advancement of Science, division of anthropology, in 
                        Chicago
                     last December, it was stated that almost nothing was known of Indiana archaeology.
                    Since that meeting George R. Fox, director of the Edward K. Warren Foundation, at Three Oaks, 
                        Michigan
                    , has been making an investigation of what has been done in Indiana. He finds that
                    beginning in 1869, a survey  was made county by county, by the
                    state geologists. He is very enthusiastic about the results of his investigation and says that the
                    state has no reason to be ashamed of what has been accomplished. These archaeological remains have
                    been located in part, at least. Now it is for the people of Indiana to see that more publicity is
                    given to their archaeological treasures and that these remains are saved. A real state museum with
                    adequate quarters would attract thousands and thousands of such relics.
            George Andrew Gordon, the only surviving member who assisted in drafting the Indiana state
                    constitution of 1850, now living in 
                  Eureka, Kansas
               , was duly honored by the General Assembly
                    of Indiana on his one hundredth birthday, January 22, 1921. Following is a copy of the resolution
                    sent to him on this occasion: 
                        Whereas, George Andrew Gordon now a resident of 
                        Eureka, Kansas
                     , is the
                            only surviving member of the Indiana constitutional convention of 1850, having been elected
                            from a district composed of 
                                Howard
                             and 
                                Cass counties
                            , and
                        Whereas, Mr. Gordon will be 100 years of age Saturday, January 22, 1921, having been born in
                                    
                        Warren county, Ohio
                     , afterward residing in 
                                Sullivan
                             and 
                                Howard counties
                            , Indiana, obtaining a higher education at 
                                Wabash
                             college, and
                        Whereas, his 100th birthday is to be celebrated at a family gathering in
                                    
                        Eureka, Kansas
                     , Saturday, January 22nd, be it Resolved by the
                            senate, the house of representatives concurring, that the 72nd General Assembly of Indiana,
                            which was elected under the constitution Mr. Gordon helped to establish, congratulate Mr.
                            Gordon on his public service and on his long and useful life, and be it further
                        Resolved, that the secretary of state be directed to send a certified copy of these
                            resolutions to Mr. Gordon, and that the secretary of the senate send a telegram immediately
                            upon concurrence of the house in these resolutions to Mr. Gordon notifying him of the action
                            taken.
                    
                
            During the annual meeting of the Indiana library association held jointly with the Indiana library
                    trustees association, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , November 10–12, 1920, one of the features of the program from the
                    historian's point of view, were the talks given at the Indiana Dinner. Jacob P. Dunn
                    responded to the toast, Early Indiana Authors; Kate Milner Rabb, Old Township and McClure Libraries;
                    Paul V. Haworth  Roughing It in the Northwest; William
                    Herschell, Original Poems and Yarns, and Max Ehrman, Madness of Romance.
            The Indiana Historical Society is entering upon a statewide drive this year to increase its
                    membership. A survey of three or four leading state historical societies in the middle west shows
                    the following records for membership: 
                        Missouri
                    , 1,248; 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1,042; 
                        Minnesota
                     upwards of 600; 
                        Michigan
                    , over 1,000. At present the membership of the Indiana Historical Society is fewer than
                    150. A membership committee consisting of Charles W. Moores, Harlow Lindley and Lucy M. Elliott, has
                    been appointed to conduct the drive during the year 1921.
            An editorial in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Sunday Star, January 23, 1921, on the Corydon pageant, by Kate Milner Rabb, has aroused
                    statewide interest in the subject of historical pageants.
            Under the direction of the Indiana Historical commission more than fifty of the ninety-two counties
                    in the state have collected and compiled a history showing the part played by their respective
                    counties in the World war. Several of the counties have already published their histories in book
                    form, among them being: 
                  Clay, Delaware, Fountain, Fulton, Howard, Jefferson, Parke, Pike, Ripley, Switzerland
               , and 
                        Tipton
                    . The manuscript reports for several others have been prepared, and other volumes will
                    appear in the near future.
            The historical committee of 
                        Tennessee
                     is now engaged in one of the most extensive campaigns ever undertaken by the state to
                    collect, calendar, and publish all available documents relating to the history of 
                        Tennessee
                    . On January 29, 1920, a mass meeting was held at the Commercial club in 
                        Nashville
                    , attended by the governor, members of the supreme court, members of the legislature,
                    state officials and representative and professional citizens, at which time a movement was launched
                    calling for a survey of the entire state of 
                        Tennessee
                    . Six committees were appointed to collect and prepare material on the following
                    subjects: Early history, Indian and pioneer, Mexican and Civil war history, Reconstruction  and commercial history, Political, social and industrial
                    history, Literary and educational history, World war, civil and military history. The 1919 session
                    of the 
                        Tennessee
                     legislature appropriated $2,200,000 for a memorial hall and historical
                    library in which to house the records of 
                        Tennessee
                     and to perpetuate the memory of her hero dead. Governor Roberts announced that the
                    necessary funds would be available for carrying on this great work, and pronounced it the most
                    important work ever undertaken in 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            
                    Of all the historic Lincoln spots the least known is that area where Lincoln lived from his
                        seventh to his twenty-first years. The people of southern Indiana are urging Governor McCray to
                        reroute the proposed state highway from 
                            Evansville
                         to French Lick so it will pass through 
                            Lincoln City
                        , through the old Thomas Lincoln farm, past the home site of the Lincolns, past the
                        grave of Lincoln's mother, and all the other Lincoln landmarks. If this is done, a real
                        Lincoln Home Trail is built, then the automobile tourist passing that way may see, as he comes
                        from the east, the monument marking the hearthstone site in the Lincoln one-room cabin home, and
                        as he drives southwest-ward he will pass along the land Lincoln cleared and plowed. He will come
                        next to the Nancy Hanks Lincoln Memorial park, in the center of which is the monument erected by
                        Lincoln lovers to the memory of Lincoln's mother, who died when he was ten years old.
                    It seems strange, but Indiana has one of the most beautiful small parks in America there, with
                        fine roads all through it, and no way to get to the entrance other than over a dirt road
                        impassable over half the year. Passing by the park one comes to Little Pigeon church, primitive
                        Baptist. The original church was built 100 years ago; Thomas Lincoln helped build it, out of
                        roughly-hewn logs. This was the first church Lincoln attended; his father was one of the
                        officers. Long after the Lincolns moved to 
                            Illinois
                         the building was moved toward the road 100 feet, and the logs were boarded over on
                        the outside, the inside then being plastered. Inside are rough board benches, a home-made
                        pulpit, with kitchen chairs for the preacher. Immediately back of this church is the grave of
                        Lincoln's sister, Sarah Lincoln Grigsby.
                    Then, following the trail that Lincoln trod, one comes to Gentryville, the village nearest the
                        Lincoln farm a century ago. It was there Lincoln went to do odd jobs for townspeople, and to
                        read a 
                            Louisville
                         newspaper, the only paper coming into all that part of the country. [?] It was in
                        the Gentryville store that Lincoln did his first debating, arguments swapped round the stove.
                        There he first became noted as a story teller. On farther is Boonville, where Lincoln found the
                        first [?] law books he read, and which gave him the foundation for a legal career. To the south,
                        in 
                            Rockport
                        , he borrowed other law  books, and there, [?]
                        too, he embarked upon his river expeditions to 
                            New Orleans
                        , for a Gentryville merchant. It was over that same trail from the Lincoln farm to
                        Gentryville that the Lincoln family drove their ox-teams, carrying all their worldly goods into 
                            Illinois
                        .– 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, February 2, 1921.
                
            Mrs. Caroline Dale Owen Snedeker, the granddaughter of David Dale Owen and the author of Seth Wey, a
                    Romance of the Neio Harmony Community, gave an address on 
                        New Harmony
                     before the Contemporary club of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 9.
            The 
                        Henry County
                     historical society held its thirty-fourth semi-annual meeting at 
                        Newcastle
                    , November 18. About sixty members were present. Resolutions were adopted at the meeting
                    recommending that the birthplace of Wilbur Wright, the co-inventor of the aeroplane, be bought, if
                    it could be secured at a reasonable price. If the five-acre homestead cannot be bought at a fair
                    price, it was recommended that a memorial be erected at 
                        Newcastle
                    .
            The 
                        Washington County
                     historical society met at 
                        Salem
                     November 27, 1920. A number of new relics were added to its collection which is growing
                    to be of considerable size. It was planned to hold regular monthly meetings in the future.
            Miss Margaret C. Norton who has finished calendaring the collection of 
                        Tipton
                     manuscripts in the Indiana state library has accepted a position with the state
                    historical society of 
                        Missouri
                    .
            At the 43rd annual meeting of the Indiana Republican Editorial Association, held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , January 27 and 28,1921, M. W. Pershing, of 
                        Tipton
                    , one of the surviving charter members of the association, read a paper giving the
                    history of the organization, covering a period of more than forty years. He mentioned the names of
                    editors and newspapers of the long ago, among whom were men that became famous in newspaper work in
                    Indiana and the country at large. The historical feature of the paper was so well received that the
                    association ordered the address be published in booklet form.
            
            Two articles of unusual interest appeared in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     News of December 4, 1920, and December 25, 1920. Both articles, written by Jacob P.
                    Dunn, gave a brief history of the two Indiana inventors who have not been generally known. One is
                    Thomas Jackson Rodman, inventor of the Rodman gun, and of modern cannon powder. The other character
                    mentioned was George W. Stockman, inventor of the process of summer meat packing, and artificial
                    cooling.
            Ten Indiana counties were organized by the legislature in 1821. Six of these will have the
                    opportunity to observe their centennials on the exact date of their anniversaries; the others might
                    celebrate the year, if not the exact date. The counties and dates of organizing acts are as follows:
                    Union, Jan. 5, 1821; 
                        Greene
                    , Jan. 5, 1821; 
                        Bartholomew
                    , Jan. 8, 1821; Parke, Jan. 9, 1821; Morgan, Dec. 31, 1821; 
                        Decatur
                    , Dec. 31, 1821; Rush, Dec. 31, 1821; 
                        Marion
                    , Dec. 31, 1821; 
                        Putnam
                    , Dec. 31, 1821; and Henry, Dec. 31, 1821.
         
      
   
