
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 036, Issue 4, pages 327-434. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:036+issue:4+year:1940&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Early Literary Developments in Indiana
            AGNES M. MURRAY
            Hoosier pioneers have often been branded as an ignorant and backward race totally lacking in
                    intellectual ambition. When one investigates the truth of the matter, how-ever, one finds that from
                    the earliest days of American settlement there was, contrary to popular belief, genuine intellectual
                    advancement and literary interest within Indiana not only in the passive matter of reading but in
                    the form of original composition by the pioneers themselves. There seems to have been no printer in
                    Indiana Territory in 1802, since the territorial laws had to be printed in 
                        Kentucky
                    ,1 but, by 1804, Elihu Stout, a former apprentice of the Brad-fords
                    at 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               , had set up a press in Vincennes by means of which he
                    published the laws and statutes of the District of 
                        Louisiana
                     in October.2 The early printers, except for the foreign craftsmen
                    at 
                        New Harmony
                    , came mainly from 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . Until 1830, the publishing, apart from periodicals, consisted almost wholly of
                    pamphlets and broadsides. The subject matter was militia orders, minutes of church and society
                    meetings, notices of sales and meetings, sermons and political speeches.3 As
                    might be expected, the earliest books published in the state were of the utilitarian order, such as
                        An Introduction to Farrierry [sic] by Willis Hughes,4 and Cobb's Explanatory Arithmetic,
               5 both of which enjoyed great popularity for some years. The century 
                  
                     1 Letter from James 
                                Madison
                             to William Henry Harrison, December 21, 1803, quoted in Dougles C. McMurtrie.
                            "Tje Need of a Printer in Indiana Territory," Indiana
                                Magazine of History (March 1936) XXXII, 34-35.
                  
                     2 Douglas C. McMurtrie, Indiana Imprints 1804-1894, A
                                Supplement to Mary Alden Walker's Beginnings of Printing in the State of
                                Indiana, published in 1834, Indiana diana Historical Society, Publication., XI, No.
                            5 (1937), 315.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 315-328.
                  
                     4 Published at 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, in 1829, and at 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, in 1835.
                  
                     5 Published at 
                                Indianapolis
                             in 1836.
               
                     was half gone before any books of the belles
                        lettres genre were published within the state. As early as 1825, there was a publishing
                    office at 
                        New Harmony
                     which was noted for its fine work in printing and lithographing. Several books of an
                    advanced nature were published there including an illustrated edition of American
                        Conchology, by Thomas Say, in the years 1830-1834.
            Until newspapers became business enterprises, editors were important as state builders on account of
                    their influence upon public opinion. Elihu Stout, the first printer, was also the first newspaper
                    editor in Indiana. He started the Western Sun at 
                        Vincennes
                     on July 4, 1809.6 The 
                        Madison
                    
                    Western Eagle, founded in 1813, was the first local journal to gain a footing
                    outside of the cultural cradle of 
                        Vincennes
                    . After that, the birthrate of newspapers increased rapidly. By 1820, fifteen had been
                    inaugurated in ten towns, in the southern part of the state. The next decade saw four started in the
                    New Purchase where most of those of the thirties and forties originated. Before the middle of the
                    century, some two hundred fifty Hoosier newspapers had been founded. That they were often
                    short-lived and poor in quality is less important than the fact that their very presence shows an
                    urge for information and cultural advancement among some, at least, of the pioneers. It was
                    difficult to run a newspaper on the frontier. Subscribers were few and far between, money was
                    scarce, mails were often delayed leaving the editor at a loss for news, and paper was so difficult
                    to obtain that sometimes only a half sheet could be sent out. In 1832, the Dog-Fennel
                        Gazette was printed on one side of the page only and the subscribers had to send it back to
                    get the next week's news printed on the reverse side. By 1840, however, the population had
                    increased considerably, money was somewhat more plentiful, the mail service was more regular, and
                    there were three paper-mills in the state so some newspapers were able to assume a more metropolitan
                        air.7
            
            Like those of other states in the same period, Indiana newspapers were generally weekliese8 and almost wholly political organs. Long articles on political questions,
                    frequently 
                  
                     6 Henry S. Cauthorn, A History of the City of 
                                    Vincennes
                                , Indiana, from 1706 to 1901 (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1902), 57.
                  
                     7 George S. Cottman, "The Early Newspapers of
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History (September. 1906), II,
                            108-120.
                  
                     8 In 1840 there were sixty-nine weeklies, four semi-weeklies or
                            tri-weeklies, and three "periodicals." Ibid.,
                        110.
               
                     copied from eastern papers, provided most of the copy, for
                    political matters were of major importance to the pioneer. There was always some space given to
                    literary matter, how-ever, both poetry and prose, some of which was indigenous and some of which was
                    reprinted from the English classics. The absence of international copyright laws made it an easy
                    matter for the editor to have whatever he wanted in the way of imported selections. Regional pride
                    would not allow foreign material to usurp the space which might be given to local talent, however,
                    and Hoosier authors could always find some paper which would print whatever they wrote, a fact made
                    clear by the caliber of very many of the "gems" accepted. Local papers were
                    usually reflections of those of the nearest city even if it were in another state.9 Nevertheless, some, notably the 
                        New Harmony
                     Gazette, included cities in many other states and even in Europe on their mailing
                        lists.10 In addition to the regular newspapers, there were some short-lived
                    attempts at creating literary periodicals even before 1840.11 There was one
                    semi-scientific monthly, the Philomath Encyclopedia and Circle of the Sciences,
                    founded by the Universalists in 1833, and an agricultural paper, the Indiana
                    Farmer, which started its first volume as a monthly at the inauguration of the Horticultural
                    Society in 1840 after three years of irregular weekly publication.
            Just as in the eastern states, almanacs had a wide circulation among the farmers who accepted their
                    contents verbatim. Bibles and religious books were also widely read in rural areas where they were
                    distributed by Methodist circuit riders and eastern Bible societies.12 Another
                    phase of rural literature was the oral rendition of melancholy ballads and love songs which the
                    earliest settlers had brought with them from the southern mountains—"Sweet
                    William" and "Barbara Allan" being among the most popular.13 Judge Finch claimed that even the settlers who went to the New Purchase, 
                  
                     9 E. g., those in the eastern counties were much influenced by the 
                                Cincinnati
                             news-papers. Robert LaFollette, "Interstate Migration and Indiana
                            Culture," 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley Historical Review (December. 1929). %VI, 356.
                  
                     10 William Pelham, letter to his son, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana. November 27, 1826, in Harlow Lindley, ed., Indiana as
                                Seen by Early Travellers, Indiana Historical Society. Collections. III (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 395-396.
                  
                     11
                            Wester Ladies' Casket, Connorsville. 1823; Western
                                Censor, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1823-24: The Fay Schoolmaster,
                            
                                Richmond
                            , 189.
                  
                     12 Beverley W. Bond, Jr., The Civilization of the Old
                                North-West (
                                New York
                            , 1934), 451. 480-481.
                  
                     13
                            Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1915), I. 336.
               
                     then the more retarded part of the state, with him in 1818
                    carried along the best thoughts of that period in the form of books and pamphlets.14 Books were generally scarce, it must be admitted, but professional men often owned
                    creditable libraries and others borrowed from them so that a small nucleus of information spread a
                    wide aura of culture.15 By far the best of the private libraries in the state at
                    this time was that of Bishop Brute, at 
                        Vincennes
                    . Fundamentally a theological library it included books of all kinds, and European
                    manuscripts dating back to the fourteenth century.16 In 1840, Samuel Merrill had
                    the largest private library in Indiaanpolis, his collection of belles lettres
                    including a number of English classics and some contemporary American verse. Much more common than
                    private libraries were the subscription libraries and those formed by a club or society; obviously,
                    in an area where incomes were small, this community effort was the most practical. The first
                    subscription library was formed at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1808. At the time of its opening, it contained two hundred ten volumes, most of
                    which were biography, geography, history, and poetry, fiction being regarded with suspicion by the
                    leading citizens. In the same year, the 
                        Vincennes
                     Historical and Antiquarian Society was organized, and, in a short time, it too had
                    developed a good library.17 By 1816, a literary society with a library for its
                    members had been established in 
                        Vevay
                    ,18 while in 
                        New Albany
                     the Lyceum performed the same cultural service. In some of the larger towns, including
                    the capital, enterprising bookstore proprietors ran rental libraries with considerable success in
                    the eighteen-thirties.19 Public libraries were started surprisingly early, the
                    outstanding example being the State Library which found its precedent in the Law Library established
                    at Corydon in 1820. Unfortunately, there was 
                  
                     14 Fabius M. Finch, "Reminiscences of Judge Finch."
                                Indiana Magazine of History (December, 1911), VII, 165.
                  
                     15 Mrs. Gertrude Garrison, "Mrs. Sarah T. Bolton, Poetess:
                            The First Singer in a New Land." Indiana Magazine of History
                            (December, 1912), VIII, 186; John C. Wright. "Living and Religious Customs of
                            Pioneers in Western Indiana," Society of diana Pioneers, Yearbook
                            (1923-24), 19-20.
                  
                     16 Clementine Weisert, "The Old Cathedral Library at 
                                Vincennes
                            ," Society of Indiana Pioneers, Yearbood (1923-24).
                            19-20.
                  
                     17 Bond. op. cit., 432; Jane Kitchell, "The
                            Old '
                                Vincennes
                             Library," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVIII
                            (December, 1932).
                  
                     18 Perret Dufour, The Swiss Settlement of 
                                    Switzerland
                                 County, Indiana, Indiana Historical Collections,
                            XIII (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1925), 46-47.
                  
                     19 Jacob Platt Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : the history. the industries, the institutions, and the people of a city of
                                homes (
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), I. 510; Herbert Anthony Keller. ed., Solon Robinson,
                                Pioneer and Agriculturist, Indiana Historical Society, Collections, XXII (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1936), I, 50. This volume contains selections from the writings of
                        Robinson.
               
                     no regular librarian to manage it until 1841, and it fell into
                    a bad state of disorganization.20 Counties and towns also began to organize
                    public libraries in the 'twenties and 'thirties, some of which put the State
                    Library to shame. 
                        Marion
                     county was one of the most progressive in this respect for the act by which the county
                    was created in 1821 provided for the setting aside of the income derived from two per cent of the
                    land sales for the support of a public library.21 In the early
                    eighteen-thirties, even so remote a community as 
                        La Porte
                     boasted a public library containing such up-to-date fiction as Cooper's Leatherstocking Tales and Bulwer-Lytton's Last Days of
                        Pompeii.
               22
            
            Contrary to the popular prejudice in favor of the superior cultural influence of New 
                        England
                    , the early literati of Indiana came from the North and South in
                    feirly even numbers. 
                        Connecticut
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     were the chief birth states of those from the North, while 
                        Virginia
                     and Kentcky furnished most of the southerns. In the thirties, they were joined by
                    settlers from 
                        Ohio
                     and some native born Hoosiers.23 In the first half of the century,
                    literary production was principally confined to the southern part of the state, since it was settled
                    earlier. Baynard Rush Hall's New Purchase was the sole distinguished work
                    written in the newer area of southern Indiana.24 Except for newspaper
                    publication, the works of the first Hoosier authors were generally printed outside of the state,
                    since Indiana lacked the facilities of literary periodicals which could be found in 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The first female writer of the West whose work enjoyed any far-reaching repute, Mrs.
                    Julia L. Dumont, was a Hoosier by adoption although she was actually born in 
                        Ohio
                    . Better known today as a teacher who encouraged others in the literary field, as early
                    as 1824, she was herself locally considered a writer of some merit 
                  
                     20 Dunn, op. cit., I, 106-108; "The First
                            Step towards a Public Law Library, Indiana Magazine of History (September,
                            1936), XXXII, 274ff.
                  
                     21 Dunn, op. cit., I, 511.
                  
                     22 Ella Lonn, "The History of an Unusual Library,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History (September, 1923), XIX, 209-210.
                  
                     23 William T. Coggesball, Ed., The Poets and Poetry of
                                the West (
                                Columbus
                            . 
                                Ohio
                            , 1860), passion.
                  
                  
                     24 Baynard R. Hall was a native of 
                                Philadelphia
                            , a graduate of Union College and Princenton. He was ordained as a Presbyterian
                            minister and came to the frontier to be professor in, and later, principal of, the Indiana
                            Seminary in 1822. He was disappointed in the life he found there so the narration of his
                            experiences in The New Purchase(
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1843), while it is an unrivalled critical study of pioneer life is not
                            entirely just to Hoosiers. Hall was inclined to malign his enemies and make fun of his
                            friends.
               
                     and a little later her work was accepted by the great eastern
                    publishers. Probably her best known prose work was Life Sketches from Common
                    Paths, a volume of moral short stories of the type popular with the ladies of the period. A
                    number of her sentimental poems, which are by no means inferior to the general standard for female
                    poets of the day, are reprinted in Coggeshall's anthology of western poetry.25 Another poetess whose work belies the theory that early Hoosiers were uncultured was
                    Sarah T. Bolton, whose family moved from 
                        Kentucky
                     to be one of the first in Jennings county, Indiana. She wrote for the local papers
                    before she was sixteen, gained recognition in the East, and attained the height of her popularity
                    with the ballad, "Paddle Your Own Canoe."26 Although these
                    women are among the best known, they are by no means the only poets among the pioneers of Indiana.
                    Of the one hundred fifty-nine poets from ten states whose works are included in
                    Coggeshall's Poets and Poetry of the West, twenty-one of those born in
                    the first half of the nineteenth century were Hoosiers. As is usually the case with minor writers,
                    their successes were ephemeral. Prhaps one of the chief reasons for this was, that, instead of
                    showing the life they knew and creating a new literature in a new land, they preferred to escape the
                    crude realities of the life around them by imitating the sentimentalism of the second-rate eastern
                    and European writers. John Finley's poem, "The Hoosier's Nest,"
                    and Hall's The New Purchase are isolated exceptions to this rule,
                    otherwise it was almost the end of the nineteenth century before Edward Eggleston and James Whitcomb
                    Riley appeared to prove that Indiana provided not only readers and writers, but also a literary
                    material worthy of note. The early poetry generally took the form of melancholy ballads which often
                    had death as their main theme after the fashion of the folk songs of the southern mountains,
                    although there was also some political verse and occasional scholarly translations from the classics
                    or ambitious original poems in Latin to show that education had come to Hoosiers.27 Since fiction was generally frowned 
                  
                     25 An informative article, "Julia L. Dumont of 
                                Vevay
                            ," by Lucille Detraz Sketcher and Jane Lucille Sketcher, appeared in
                            the Indiana Magazine of History (September. 1938), XXXIV, 298-306
                  
                     26 Coggeahall, op. cit., 367.
                  
                     27 A good example of the political verse is Morris's eulogy
                            to his rival for the position of county clerk in the first election held at 
                                Indianapolis
                             in 1822 (Dunn. op. cit., I, 504: Dufour, op.
                            cit., 70).
               
                     upon by the more scrupulous, its production was limited to
                    moral tales modeled on those of N. P. Willis, while other prose writings consisted mainly of labored
                    newspaper essays and the more utilitarian treatises on medicine, law, and theology. One cannot avoid
                    admitting, however, that, as soon as Indiana pioneers had any leisure at all, they became interested
                    in the intellectual stimulation of reading and writing to a degree which was highly praiseworthy
                    considering their remoteness from all centers of literary development. Far from being an ignorant
                    and backward race, they showed a literary and cultural advancement at least equal, and in some ways
                    superior, to that of other states during the territorial period and the early years of
                statehood.
         
         
         
            Robert Glenn's Scottish Home in Indiana
            JULIE LECLERC KNOX
            Near Caledonia, a Scotch settlement in 
                        Jefferson County
                    , there is a very interesting old farmhouse, a bit of 
                        Scotland
                     in Indiana. Situated on a knoll, it is approached between groups of Norwegian and
                    Scotch pines, a picturesque setting for the ivy-covered gables of the old stone mansion which
                    commands a wonderful view across the opposite glen. One of the three gables faces the road, the
                    other two are on the two sides of the house. Purple flowers under the two lower windows at the front
                    of the home remind one of the heather and thistles of the moors and highlands of 
                        Scotland
                    . There are a number of stone chimneys, as there are fireplaces in every room on the
                    ground floor. Above each of the deep-set, small-paned windows are smoothly serviced stone
                    entablatures, or lintels, that are said to have been hoisted up in wheelbarrows from below, that
                    being the only feasible way of elevating them at that time.
            The house was built about 1857 by Robert Glenn who came over from 
                        Scotland
                     in 1816. The stone and timber1 were all found on the place. The
                    carpenters and masons were men of the neighborhood, John Tait, of a Scotch pioneer family, being the
                    head workman. After the foundation of the house was laid, it was allowed to settle for two years
                    before anything further was done. The farm of three hundred fifty acres was purchased at a
                    government land office, the patent being signed by President Andrew Jackson. Only two families have
                    owned the land, as it passed from Robert Glenn to his son who sold it to David H. Boyle, father of
                    the present owner, in 1904.
            The original owner, when a boy, saw a man on the streets of 
                        Glasgow
                     eating an apple. He picked up the peelings and tasted them, and wa so charmed with the
                    flavor that he made a vow then and there—he would have all the apples he could eat when
                    he grew to be a man. He made his dream come true, and his Indiana apple orchards were a source of
                    great pride to the sturdy Scot. He built a fireplace in his cellar to insure his fruit against
                    freezing and each year sorted and stored his fruit crop carefully. He 
                  
                     1 The timber grown on the place seems to have been of unusual height
                            as there Is a supporting beam in the barn, hewn from a single tree reaching across a space
                            that it was thought it would take two trees to span.
               
                     had a wide door leading into the cellar directly below the
                    front gable through which he drove his applecart and after emptying it, turned around and drove out.
                    The door is now blocked up.
            Robert Glenn was an interesting and kindly gentleman. During his life time, his home was a social
                    center for the people of the ‘kirk’ as well as for those more jovially minded.
                    He seems to have kept open house for family and friends. During one whole winter, he is said to have
                    harbored seven-teen guests beneath his hospitable roof.
            There is no front entrance to the mansion, but doors on both sides of the house near the front
                    corners, one opening from the east and one from the west. Across broad, deep, worn, old stone steps,
                    one may enter either door into an interior full of charming antiques. The reception room leads into
                    a broad hall that opens into a sunny kitchen that extends across the back of the house. On the left
                    of the hall is a small parlor with deep, old fashioned stone fireplace in which burned a cheerful
                    wood fire at the time of the writer's visit. An organ, divans, rose-backed, cane-stated
                    chairs and rockers furnish this apartment. On the opposite side of the hall is a square dining room
                    with a door to the kitchen. Priceless china and old glass adorn a corner cup-board. A cherry
                    writing-desk of antique pattern, a hanging bookcase and the tall press that flanks the mantel, are
                    outstanding attractions in this room. Radio and telephone add modernity while a large fern gives a
                    graceful touch.
            Back of the central hall is the parlor bedroom with its great bedstead, wardrobe, bedside table of
                    cherry, and high wooden mantel surmounted by a great 
                        New Haven
                     clock. Several old rockers and cane-seated chairs complete the furnishing. A wonderful
                    old quilt with gorgeous pattern and tiny stitches covers the bed. Here the visitor is shown an old
                    Bay State shawl of great size and thickness. When worn by the owner to church one morning, its
                    crimson color acted as a challenge to her turkeys and they followed her en masse,
                    squawking in protest to the very door of the sacred edifice.
            The wide hall has a New 
                        England
                     air. The original floors are of broad ash planks, so characteristic of these old
                    houses, and the window sills are twenty-one inches deep. An intriguing stairway of easy tread leads
                    to the upper floor  and another large hall, from which doors
                    open into four bedrooms, one of which is seventeen by twenty-four feet. Under the stairway is the
                    expected entrance to steps leading down into the cellar.
            The reception hall has a grandfather clock, pedestaltable of cherry, lovely old divans and
                    upholstered rockers. The glass in the windows has the iridescent light, peculiar to very old window
                    panes. Among the books is a volume of 
                  
                            Rutherford
                        's Letters, published in 1637, in which the 3 looks like an f.
                    Kenilworth ivy drapes the mantel of the kitchen and a sturdy vine with stems as large as a
                    backsnake, flings itself as a sheltering roof, across a line, to the smokehouse.
            The present owner of the Robert Glenn place is Miss Agnes Boyle. She is descended from Abidiah Hatch,
                    one of those defiant New Englanders, who masquerading as Indians, officiated at the 
                        Boston
                     Tea Party. Miss Boyle is entirely worthy her great-grandfather. She is a courageous
                    young woman of unusual ability and has managed her farm since the death of her father some years
                    ago. She has also proved herself to be a very gracious hostess for the ivy-clad, gabled-mansion
                    which looks like a transplanted bit of old 
                        Scotland
                    .
         
         
         
            Clark's Conquest of the Northwest
            MAJOR JOSEPH I. LAMBERT, UNITED STATES CAVALRY
            In writing of a military leader as successful as George Rogers Clark, one is naturally interested in
                    his previous training and preparation, but one looks in vain for any noticeable amount of study or
                    experience in war. He was too young to have taken part in the French and Indian War where 
                        Washington
                     received much of his training. Clark did learn to be a surveyor and thus became
                    acquainted with details of terrain. Little is known of the part that he took in the Dunmore Indian
                    War just preceding the Revolution, but he was either a company commander or served on Lord
                    Dunmore's staff. At the termination of hostilities, he was offered a commission in the
                    British service but declined. For several years preceding the conquest of the 
                        Illinois
                     country, he had spent much time going back and forth between his home in 
                        Virginia
                     and the new land of 
                        Kentucky
                     where he took part in several Indian skirmishes. At this time, he was primarily
                    interested in acquiring land for him-self and others in the new country.1
            
            During his travels west of the mountains, Clark conceived the daring scheme of wresting the country
                    north of the 
                        Ohio
                     River from the British. There was a British garrison at 
                        Detroit
                     consisting of about three hundred regulars, besides six hundred French militia, and
                    Indian allies. From Michilimackinac to the 
                        Ohio
                     River there was militia in varying degrees of organization. At 
                        Vincennes
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                     River, there were two hundred fifty members, and, at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and at other French towns along the 
                        Mississippi
                    , Philippe de Rocheblave, the commandant, organized the inhabitants into military units.
                    The purpose of these organizations was for protection against the Indians as well as for service
                    under the British. The French had taken the oath of allegiance to Britain but their patriotism to
                    that country was questionable. There were approximately eight thousand Indian warriors in the
                    country north of the 
                        Ohio
                    , most of whom the British counted upon as allies.2 Many 
                  
                     1 Henry Pirtle, Ed., George Rogers Clark's
                                Sketch of the Campaign in the IF finis (
                                Cleveland
                            , 1907), 7; James A. James, The Life of George Rogers Clark (
                                Chicago
                            . 1928), 8-29: William H. English, Conquest of the Old
                            Northwest (
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1896), I, 65.
                  
                     2 Milo M. Quaife, Ed., George Rogers Clark's
                                Conquest of the IRjhoit (
                                Chicago
                            . 1920), xv.
               
                     of these warriors were well organized into groups to make
                    forays on the western settlements of 
                  Kentucky,
                            Virginia
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Rewards were offered by Lieutenant-Governor Henry 
                        Hamilton
                     of 
                        Detroit
                     for prisoners, and the Americans accused him of also paying for scalps, thus giving him
                    the name "Hair-Buyer." During the year 1778, Clark investigated thoroughly the
                    strength and organization of the enemy by sending spies into the country. It was his opinion that he
                    could conquer it, including 
                        Detroit
                    , with five hundred men.3 He was counting on persuading the French
                    and some of the Indians to join him against the British.
            Although Clark's education was quite limited, he must have possessed persuasive powers of a
                    high order, for he soon convinced Governor Patrick Henry of 
                        Virginia
                     and his councillors of the feasibility of an expedition to conquer the 
                        Ohio
                     country. He was given power to enlist men and an order to gather supplies from Fort
                    Pitt. He soon recruited a sizeable force in the backwoods country, but on account of the jealousy of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the opposition to sending men so far away, the numbers were reduced to one hundred
                    fifty. He was also expecting two hundred men from the Holston River country to join him in 
                        Kentucky
                    , but politics played a strong role here too in persuading many not to serve. Clark
                    finally set out from Redstone, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , on May 12, 1778, traveling by boat, mostly at night to elude the Indians. His ability
                    to pick highly competent subordinates was proved by the fact that the four company commanders were
                    Joseph Bowman, Leonard Helm, William Harrod, and John Montgomery, each of whom had previously proved
                    exceptional ability as an Indian fighter and leader.4
            
            While voyaging down the 
                        Ohio
                     River, the little army stopped at the fort at the mouth of the Kanawha River and was
                    there informed that a band of about two hundred Indians had attacked the fort the day before.
                    Keeping in mind his military mission, Clark refused to pursue them for fear the results would
                    interfere with his plans. He proceeded 
                  
                     3 Temple Bodley, George Rogers Clark (
                                Boston
                            . 1926), 26. 53; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Haldimand, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , Dec. 18. 1778. 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library, Collections, I (
                                Springfield
                            . 1903). 227. 236; George Rogers Clark to George Mason, 
                                Louisville
                            , Falls of the 
                                Ohio
                            , Nov. 19. 1779, ibid., VIII (
                                Springfield
                            . 1912), James Alton James. Ed., George Roger' Clark
                                Papers, 1771-1781, 116: Joseph Bowman to George Brinker, 
                                Kaskaskia
                            . July 30, 1778. ibid., 616.
                  
                     4 Patrick Henry to Lieut. George Rogers Clark. 
                                Williamsburg
                            , Jan. 2, 1778 (secret instructions), Clark Papers, loc. cit.,
                                VIII, 34; Clark to Mason. Nov. 19, 1779. Clark Papers, loc. cit.,
                            VIII. 117; English. op. cit., I, 106-188.
               
                     to the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     River (
                        Louisville
                    ), where he constructed a fort. He decided to use this as a base on which to fall back
                    if necessary. Here he would still be between the 
                        Kentucky
                     settlements and the enemy, and would have a secure location for future operations.5 He built the fort on an island in the river and garrisoned it with twenty
                    families that had accompanied him down the river.
            Clark had received two sets of instructions from Governor Patrick Henry, a public one which he used
                    for his authority to enlist men and gather supplies, and a secret one which he showed to no one
                    until he reached the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . The public document merely stated that he was to proceed to 
                        Kentucky
                     with his army, while the instructions ordered him to attack the enemy posts. When he
                    informed his men that they were to proceed to 
                        Kaskaskia
                     on the 
                        Mississippi
                     River, some of them objected that they had enlisted only to defend 
                        Kentucky
                     and were afraid to proceed so far away amidst thousands of savages and a numerous
                    enemy. Clark tells us that at this time he began to use discipline of a stricter order. He placed
                    guards over the boats, and patrolled the camp, in order to prevent the escape of those wishing to
                    desert. Actually, a few did escape but some of them were brought back and forced to go along. Nearly
                    all Clark's men, it should be stated, were willing to risk their lives in the unknown
                    wilderness, and cheerfully followed the great leader in the cause of the Revolution.6 While at the Falls, Clark received word of the alliance between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        France
                    . This made him more optimistic of winning over the French inhabitants of the 
                        Illinois
                     country.
            Leaving about twenty families on the island at the falls, Clark's little band started down
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     on June 24, 1778. After losses through desertion when the men found out the real
                    ' purpose of the expedition, and some additions from 
                        Kentucky
                    , the force consisted of about 175 men. No horses or wagons were taken and only supplies
                    which could be carried on the men's backs. There is very little available information to
                    indicate that the men had received military training, so essential to success in modern war. During
                    the 
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., I, 132: Clark to Mason, Nov. 19, 1779, Clark Papers,
                                lot. cit., VIII, 117; "Clark's Memoir, 1778-1779," ibid., 220.
                  
                     6 Patrick Henry to Clark. Jan. 2. 1778 (secret instnutlons), Clock Papers. loc. cit., VIM 34; Clark to Mason, No. 19, 1779, ibid., 118; "Clark's Memoir," ibid 228; English op. cit., I, 139.
               
                     month's stay on the island, they were drilled and
                    trained in such basic duties as guard.7 There were no uniforms worn, the men
                    being dressed in ordinary frontier garb of long fringed coat, leather breeches, and moccasins, with
                    headgear of wide brimmed hat or coon-skin cap. The men were a hardy lot and capable of taking care
                    of themselves in the wilderness. As Clark was a natural leader, he soon impressed his personality
                    upon the men. Large, strong, and of handsome appearance, he was always ready and resourceful.8
            
            Traveling in flatboats, with the oars double-manned, the little expedition dropped down the river.
                    Running day and night, they reached the mouth of the 
                        Tennessee
                     River in four days. At this time a party of American hunters was encountered which had
                    reeently returned from 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . By adroit questioning Clark found out from them that there was no British garrison
                    along the 
                        Mississippi
                     and that the French militia did not suspect the coming of his force. He did not wish to
                    set the' hunters free and run the risk that they might give information to the enemy, so he
                    persuaded them to join his band. The party proceeded about ten miles down the 
                        Ohio
                     to abandoned Fort Massac, where the boats were concealed in a gully.9 Clark had decided to march overland from this point in order to maintain secrecy of
                    movement. If he had followed the 
                        Ohio
                     to its mouth and then proceeded up the 
                        Mississippi
                    , the enemy would have discovered him since this route was followed by most voyagers.
                    Following in trice of each other Indian style, they started out after resting one day at the old
                    fort.
            Clark chose a difficult and unfrequented route overland to 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , a distance of about 120 miles to the northwest on the 
                        Mississippi
                     River. For the first fifty miles, the country was so difficult that the men became
                    fatigued. At this time, they came out upon a prairie where there was much danger of being discovered
                    on account of the open nature of the terrain. On the third day, John Saunders, the guide, became
                    confused and for a few hours it looked as if the expedition would fail for want of knowledge of the
                    proper route to follow. Clark was deeply worried, fearing that the 
                  
                     7 Reuben Gold Tbwaites. How George Rogers Clark Won. the
                                Northwest (
                                Chicago
                            . 1918). 25; English, op. cit., I, 167; Clark to Mason, Nov.
                            19, 1779. Clark Papers, loc. cit., 118.
                  
                     8 Bodley, op. et., 61.
                  
                     9 English, op. cit., I. 167; Clark to Mason. Nov. 19, 1779, Clark Papers, be. cit., 167.
               
                     man might be a traitor who was merely leading them into a trap.
                    The guide was told positively that he would be sent out under guard to find the trail and if he did
                    not do so in a few hours he would be put to death. The trail was soon found and thereafter the only
                    other thing to mar the march was the scarcity of game owing to a drought. On the evening of July 4,
                    1778, after six days on the march, the last two without food, the command reached the 
                        Kaskaskia
                     River about one mile above and across from the town. Clark questioned a French family
                    here and found out that the militia of the village were well organized but did not suspect his
                    presence. He soon found plenty of boats in which to transfer his men to the other side of the 
                        Kaskaskia
                    .10
            
            To capture 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and Fort Gage, Clark used one of the most important principles of
                    war—surprise. In addition, he succeeded through careful planning of details, such as
                    creating the impression that resistance was useless because he was attacking with large numbers.
                    Since all of the surrounding country was inhabited by Indians who were friendly to the French, it is
                    difficult to understand how the Americans actually entered the town and fort before their presence
                    was known. A good explanation is that some of the most famous scouts of the day, such as Simon
                    Kenton, accompanied the expedition. About midnight, they were across the river and ready to attack.
                    Clark divided his force into two parts, one half to attack the town and the other to capture Fort
                    Gage which was just below the town.11 He commanded the detachment directed
                    against the Fort, where the men arrived without the knowledge of the militia. The gate was open and
                    unguarded and the Americans proceeded to take possession. The commander of the fort, Philippe
                    Rocheblave, a Frenchman, was rudely awakened and made a prisoner, preparatory to sending him to 
                        Virginia
                    , since he was known to encourage the Indians to kill and capture Americans in the
                    frontier country. The other half of the command marched into the town where it was divided into
                    groups of four or five men to each group to patrol the streets. The soldiers warned all inhabitants
                    that anyone found outside the houses would be shot. Within fifteen minutes, Clark 
                  
                     10 Joseph Bowman to John Hite, July 30, 1778, ibid.,
                            618: John Reynolds. Pioneer History of llinoie (
                                Chicago
                            , 1887), 93. 281.
                  
                     11 Thwaitea, op. cit., 27, 31; Clark to Mason. Nov.
                            19, 1779, Clark Papers, be. at., 120; Clark's Memoir, ibid., 228; Bowman to Brinker, July 30, 1778, ibid.,
                            615.
               
                     was in possession of the village and fort without firing a
                    round of ammunition. Only when an army is opposed by an improperly trained enemy can such a
                    bloodless victory be gained.
            Clark was great as a diplomat as well as a soldier. He realized that his force was not sufficient to
                    hold the country occupied by a hostile population. At first he encouraged the people to believe all
                    of the wicked stories the British had told them of the ferocious Long Knives, the name given to
                    Americans. After terrifying them to the point of begging for their lives, he announced that he would
                    spare them if they would take the oath of fidelity to the 
                        United States
                    , which everyone promptly did. He obtained their loyalty further by notifying them of
                    the alliance between America and 
                        France
                    , and by assuring them that they would be free to worship according to their own
                    religion. In order to retain the submission of the natives and Indians, Clark used another stratagem
                    during the whole campaign of telling them that he had in reserve a large army at the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . In truth, the only persons left there were a few families who volunteered to guard the
                    supplies left at the little fort while they cultivated land in the vicinity.12
            
            To push further his plan of surprise, Clark sent Captain Joseph Bowman with thirty men, mounted on
                    horses gathered locally, to continue speedily the conquest of other villages to the northward.
                    Starting out on the day following the arrival at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , this force first occupied 
                        Prairie
                     du Rocher about fifteen miles away. Fort Chartres near by was no longer occupied as a
                    military post. The same night St. Phillipe, about nine miles farther, was reached, where the news
                    had not yet spread of the arrival of the Americans. Bowman used the well known military principle of
                    never allowing enemy civilians to precede the army. On the next day, the little force rode into
                    Cahokia, sixty miles from 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , and received the surrender of the town.13
            
            The French settlements along the 
                        Mississippi
                     in what is now 
                        Illinois
                     were completely within Clark's power in three days time. In order to hold this
                    territory, he left a small garrison at Cahokia and placed the remainder of his force at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . The Indians were yet to be dealt with and 
                  
                     12 Reynolds. op. cit., 93, 97.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 97: James. op. cit., 121; Bowman to Hite, July
                            30, 1778, Clark Papcre. be. cit., 613.
               
                     Clark went to Cahokia where he summoned the surrounding tribes
                    to assemble. After several weeks of negotiations he gained the support of all of them. As they
                    greatly out numbered his small force it was only through his thorough understanding of human nature
                    that he was able to bring them over to his side. Through frequent visits to the Spanish governor, De
                    Leyba, at 
                        St. Louis
                    , Clark gained his whole-hearted support of the American cause.
            Spies were sent eastward to 
                        Vincennes
                    , the large French village on the 
                        Wabash
                     River, and it was determined that there was no British garrison at the place. From the
                    first, Clark had the support of Pierre Gibault, the priest at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , and decided to send him to 
                        Vincennes
                     to gain the support of the inhabitants. In a short time, Gibault returned saying that
                    the American flag was now waving over Fort Sackville at 
                        Vincennes
                    . Captain Leonard Helm was sent there to organize the militia. The wooden fort which was
                    in a good state of repair stood on the bank of the river. The four bastions, standing twelve feet
                    above the wall, were each surmounted by three guns.14
            
            It was necessary for Clark soon to turn his attentions to his own men. Theirs was the same story that
                    occurred in all of our early wars. Their short enlistments were up and they wanted to go home.
                    Although Clark had just conquered an empire, he was about to find himself without an army to hold
                    it. Troops had been promised him from 
                        Virginia
                    , but none had arrived. He had all but performed miracles with the few men who came with
                    him but he was on the verge of losing this small number. Finally, he persuaded one hundred of the
                    men to remain for eight more months, and, in addition, enlisted a company of French natives. The
                    reorganized force started a rigid system of regular training and in a short time Clark tells us no
                    garrison could boast of better order or a finer set of men. To deceive the inhabitants and Indians,
                    especially the British spies, in regard to his real strength, Clark never permitted his men to
                    parade in public. The men to be discharged were sent back to the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . The fort at that place was shifted to the mainland in order to make it more
                        accessible.15
            
            
               
                  14 Clark to Mason, Nov. 19, 1779, ibid., 122;
                        "Clark's Memoir, 1773-1779," ibid., 238; James, op. cit., 122.
               
                  15 Clark to Mason, Nov. 19, 1779, Clark Papers, loc.
                        cit., 123, 129; "Clark's Memoir,"ibid., 239:
                        Thwaites, op. cit., 37.
            
            
            As soon as he heard of Clark's occupation of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Lieutenant-Governor Henry 
                        Hamilton
                     of 
                        Detroit
                     made immediate preparations to re-capture it. The French militia at 
                        Vincennes
                     had taken the oath of allegiance to the 
                        United States
                    , but Clark sent no garrison to occupy it as he could spare no men from 
                        Illinois
                    . Captain Helm was acting governor and commander of the militia. 
                        Hamilton
                    's force consisted of thirty-six regular troops, eighty French militia, and
                    sixty Indian warriors. After a tedious trip of several weeks from 
                        Detroit
                    , his force, which had been increased to five hundred by Indian allies, arrived at 
                        Vincennes
                     on December 17, 1778.16 The militia under Helm refused to fight the
                    British and the post was surrendered without a shot being fired. 
                        Hamilton
                     now wished to continue on to 
                        Kaskaskia
                     to engage Clark at that place, but, on account of the season of the year, decided to
                    wait until spring when he hoped to gather a much larger force and drive the Americans out of 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    .17 During the winter, most of the French and Indians withdrew to
                    their homes leaving a British garrison at 
                        Vincennes
                     of about ninety.
            Clark was not at once apprised of the loss of 
                        Vincennes
                     owing to the fact that the Indians working for the British had captured all of the
                    messengers sent out by Captain Helm. Complete information came on January 29, 1779, when Francis
                    Vigo, a Spanish merchant, returned from 
                        Vincennes
                     where he had been detained on suspicion by the British. Clark's prompt action
                    to recover the post was characteristic of the man. He called a conference of his leaders and they
                    concurred in his plan to go at once and re-capture 
                        Vincennes
                    . By this time he had the complete cooperation of the inhabitants of the 
                        Mississippi
                     valley and decided to ask for volunteers from among them. He soon had enrolled two
                    companies of about sixty men. On February 1, Clark started work on a large row-galley or batteau. It
                    was finished on the third and loaded with two four pounder cannon and four swivel guns in addition
                    to other supplies and ammunition. The next day, the boat, which had been named, the Willing, departed under the command of Lieutenant John Rogers and forty-six men. Clark
                    gave orders to Rogers to move the boat down 
                  
                     16 James, op. cit., 133.
                  
                     17 Clark to Mason. Nov. 19. 1779, Clark Papers, loc,
                            cit., 138: "Report by Lieutenant Governor Henry 
                                Hamilton
                             on His Proceedings from November, 1776, to June, 1781," ibid. 176-181.
               
                     the 
                        Mississippi
                     to the mouth of the 
                        Ohio
                    , thence up that river to the 
                        Wabash
                    , and up that river to a point a few miles below 
                        Vincennes
                    . The lieutenant was to coöperate with Clark's force, which was to
                    march overland, and to prevent Indian forays down the 
                        Wabash
                     toward 
                        Kentucky
                    .18
            
            Pack horses and saddles were obtained to carry ammunition and food and enough riding horses for the
                    officers, but no tents were taken.19 Clark organized his land force into four
                    companies, two of which were native militia, the whole amounting to about 130 men. When it is
                    remembered that Clark had conquered these people only the previous summer, it is remarkable that he
                    had already won their loyalty to such a degree that he had no trouble getting volunteers to fight
                    the British. Most of the little army which originally accompanied him to 
                        Illinois
                     had been discharged and some replacements had arrived from 
                        Virginia
                    . Amid the cheers of the populace at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , the small army began on the afternoon of February 5, 1779, one of the most dramatic
                    and eventful marches that occurred during the Revolutionary War. They crossed the small 
                        Kaskaskia
                     River, made a shakedown march of three miles and then went into bivouac in a drizzly
                    rain. The distance to 
                        Vincennes
                    , along the devious way travelled by Clark to avoid detection, was 240 miles. Since it
                    is only 170 miles between 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , he went to a great deal of trouble to stay away from the usual route, as will be
                        seen.20
            
            From the start the march was severe on account of rain, the flooded condition of the country and the
                    fact that there was no shelter at any time. According to the approved method of that day, camp was
                    made in a square with baggage and animals in the center, with each company guarding a portion.
                    During the first six days of the march, that is, from February 7 to 12, they covered 174 miles, or
                    twenty-eight miles per day, which is remarkable even in good weather and over smooth roads. Although
                    the weather was not freezing, it rained nearly every day. In fact, there had been so much rain that
                    all of the streams were overflowing and the flat ground in the prairies was covered with water. The
                    great effort required to wade through the low places and to cross 
                  
                     18 Clark to Mason, Nov. 19, 1779, ibid., 166;
                            "Clark'. Memoir." ibid., 268: English, op. cit., 280; James, op. cit., 187.
                  
                     19 James, op. cit., 187; Bodies, op.
                                cit., 810.
                  
                     20 English. op. cit., I, 288.
               
                     the streams caused much fatigue, especially since there was no
                    shelter at night. During this period game was plentiful, especially buffalo, and each company took
                    turn at furnishing the meat and cooking for the camp.21
            
            Upon their arrival, February 13, at the two Little 
                        Wabash
                     Rivers, which were ordinarily three miles apart, they found that the two streams were
                    running as one with a body of water five miles wide. From here onward, Clark's great
                    leadership was the driving force which caused the command to reach its destination. He set to work
                    at once to build a canoe, and to prevent the remainder of the men from getting too discouraged
                    amused them with songs and stories. The baggage was ferried over to a scaffold built in shallow
                    water. Then the pack-horses were brought across and re-loaded. All of the command was over by the
                    evening of the fifteenth and camp was made on high ground. All day on the sixteenth, they marched
                    through rain and water. The men were amused by the little drummer floating on his drum. The food was
                    getting low since no more game was found from the time of their arrival at the Little 
                        Wabash
                    . After a long march through flooded land, they reached the Embarrass River on the
                    seventeenth only to find that it could not be crossed. The next morning they were amused to hear the
                    reveille gun at 
                        Vincennes
                    . A messenger was sent to the rendezvous of the Willing to instruct it
                    to join the command. They waded through water down this river to its mouth where camp was made on
                    high ground on the bank of the main 
                        Wabash
                    . The men were now entirely without food and some of the militia were talking of
                    returning to 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . Several groups were set to work building canoes, while others were sent to the
                    vicinity of 
                        Vincennes
                     to steal boats, but these men returned without success. While still at this camp on the
                    twentieth, five Frenchmen were captured travelling in a canoe down the 
                        Wabash
                    . They reported that the British did not know of the coming of Clark's men.
                    This day was further made cheerful by the killing of one deer, the first food obtained since the
                    seventeenth.
            Hope, that the Willing would arrive on time, was given up and the men were ferried
                    across the 
                        Wabash
                     on February 21. The horses were left on the west bank of the river. After marching
                    through water all day they made camp on 
                  
                     21 James, op. cit., 138.
               
                     a small hill, but the force was again without food. There were
                    many complaints now from the men and Clark despaired of getting them to proceed. He marched ahead
                    alone to look over the ground but found the water deep. In order to get the men to follow him he
                    decided to resort to a trick. Wetting his hands and pouring some powder in them he rubbed his face
                    to blacken it. He told the men to do like-wise, and, before they could question him, he plunged into
                    the water and everyone followed. As the water was deep, they made only three miles this day. Before
                    leaving camp on the twenty-third Clark made a speech to his men, but to make sure that everyone came
                    along on the march, he ordered Captain Bowman with twenty-five picked men to bring up the rear and
                    to shoot anyone who tried to go back. The water was so deep that it was necessary to have the canoes
                    move along with the column to pick up men who were weakened from fatigue. The exhausted column
                    finally reached a dry spot about noon. A canoe with Indian squaws came along and from them Clark got
                    a half-quarter of buffalo meat for his starving men. After a short rest, they plunged again into the
                    cold water and arrived at Warrior's Island during the afternoon. This Island was only two
                    miles from 
                        Vincennes
                     and in plain sight of it. The men passed from complete exhaustion to elation and wished
                    to push on at once to the fort.22
            
            While still concealed behind the hill, Clark's men noticed toward the town several duck
                    hunters on horse back. One of them was brought in without arousing the suspicions of the others.
                    From him, information was obtained that the British were still unaware of the approach of the
                    Americans. He also stated that the fort had been repaired, and that there were a good many Indians
                    in town. Clark's situation was serious unless he could obtain provisions at once. From
                    information at hand he believed that most of the French inhabitants were friendly and likewise some
                    of the Indians. Since the Willing had not arrived, he was without cannon. He was
                    also short of powder on account of part of it getting wet while his force crossed the flooded
                    lowlands. He believed that he could get both powder and food in the town, which he soon did. He
                    decided, before attacking, to warn 
                  
                     22 Clark to Mason, Nov. 19, 1779, Clark Papers, loc.
                            cit., 140; "Bowman's Journal, February, 1779," ibid., 156-169; "Clark's Memoir," ibid., 268-277.
               
                     the people in order to save lives. In doing this, he did not
                    believe the British would gain an advantage in case they found out about his approach as he was now
                    such a short distance away. After the message was sent, he decided to give an effect of large
                    numbers in his force by marching his men in such a way as to show them at the same spot several
                    time. As some of his militia brought guidons, he displayed them above the hill to indicate that he
                    had several companies. Further to conceal his true strength, he waited until dark to attack.23
            
            Clark maneuvered to bring his force to the opposite side of the town from the fort. Once more wading
                    through water breast high, they entered the town at eight o'clock in the evening, still
                    without the knowledge of the British as the inhabitants had not notified them of the arrival of the
                    Americans. The Indians upon hearing of the pending fight between the Long-Knives and the red-coats
                    hastily decamped. Lieutenant John Bayley, with fourteen men, was sent to at-tack Fort Sackville,
                    while the remainder of the command was distributed through the town to watch the people and obtain
                    supplies and munitions. The surprise was so complete that when fire was first opened on the fort the
                    British did not reply as they thought the Indians were shooting their guns to celebrate. After a
                    reconnaissance of the area, Clark ordered Bowman's company to dig entrenchments about the
                    fort. As most of Clark's men were soon ordered to attack the stockade there was brisk
                    firing on both sides. The British cannon were located in the blockhouses eleven feet above the
                    ground and could not be used to shoot at anyone near the walls. The Americans soon found this out
                    and some crawled up as close as thirty yards. In this position, they were safe from the enemy cannon
                    and could see the gunners operating the guns. Several of those operating the cannon were killed or
                    wounded, which was, according to Bowman's Journal, "fine sport
                    for the sons of liberty". It became necessary for the portholes to be closed in order to
                    avoid more casualties. Every time a porthole was opened in order to fire a cannon, several marksmen
                    fired into the opening. Clark's men were warned to take no chances of being 
                  
                     23 Clark to Mason, Nov. 19. 1779, ibid., 279.
                  
                     24 "Bowman's Journal, February, 1779," ibid., 160; "Clark'. Journal," February.
                            1779," ibid., 166.
               
                     hit, and they must have heeded the advice, for only one man was
                    wounded. A party of thirty men from the fort returned to the edge of the town during the night from
                    a scouting expedition. Iri order to prevent them from going among the hostile Indians and bringing
                    reenforcements to the fort, Clark decided to draw off some of his men in their vicinity and allow
                    them to re-enter the fort.
            At daylight, the Americans near the walls were withdrawn to the entrenchments in order to keep down
                    casualties. Firing was heavy from now until about nine o'clock when Clark sent a message to 
                        Hamilton
                     demanding the surrender of the fort. During the truce on the twenty-fourth, the men had
                    their first regular meal since the eighteenth. At the interview between 
                        Hamilton
                     and Clark, the latter explained that if the fort was not surrendered at once his men
                    would storm it and probably kill everyone there. After thinking the matter over 
                        Hamilton
                     capitulated with the honors of war, giving in his report his reasons as "the
                    remoteness from succor, the state and quantity of provisions, the unanimity of officers and men on
                    its expediency, the honor-able terms allowed, and lastly, the confidence in a generous
                    enemy." The British marched out and laid down their arms the next day, February 25, 1779.
                    The British officers and a few of the soldiers were sent away to 
                  Williamsburg, Virginia
               , as
                    prisoners of war, and the French partisans were paroled and sent back to 
                        Detroit
                     where Clark knew they would create a favorable feeling for the Americans.
            
               
                        Hamilton
                     had been expecting a convoy of boats with provisions from 
                        Detroit
                     about this time. On February 26, Clark sent Captain Helm with fifty men to intercept
                    them. The convoy was surprised a few miles south of Ouiatenon, near the present 
                        Lafayette
                    , and the entire force of forty-seven men and seven boats laden with supplies was
                    captured. This booty, valued at $50,000, was distributed among the soldiers. As the
                    captured property at Fort Sackville was disposed of in a similar manner, Clark's followers
                    were now "rich," except the officers who were not allowed to share in the spoils.
                    Three days after the capture of Fort Sackville, the Willing arrived, the crew much
                    chagrined that they were unable on account of delays to take part in the capture of the Fort.
            The achievement of Clark's army is one of the finest in 
                    history. Confronted by apparently insurmountable difficulties, it won complete success in the end.
                    On an incredibly miserable march of 240 miles from 
                        Kaskaskia
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     the men showed a perseverance that won them permanent fame. To Clark must go the credit
                    for victory in the entire campaign, for it was his leadership, daring, and resourcefulness that kept
                    the army moving toward its goal. Although the number of men in the expedition was small, they were
                    handled in such a way that we recognize in Clark a military commander of a high type. There was
                    coupled with his tactical knowledge a sense of strategy, that brought him to the right place for
                    victory. He must also be given credit as a diplomat for he won over to his cause the loyalty of
                    French-men and Indians wherever he went. His ability to understand the mind of savage or Creole won
                    him support throughout the northwest. Clark's love for the land pictured the country that
                    he fought for filled with settlers, but his military instinct showed him how it could be won. To him
                    and the brave men who followed him must be given the credit for performing the first necessary
                    exploit in the winning from the British the area included in what is now more than five states.
         
         
         
            Chapman Denslow and His Family
            HUGH TH. MILLER
            Chapman Denslow was born in 
                  Kent, Connecticut
               , on June 22, 1772. He was my
                    great-grandfather—the father of my paternal grandmother, Gertrude Denslow Miller. Two
                    years after the death of my grandfather, John Smith Miller, my grandmother married the Rev. Aaron
                    Farmer. Three years later, in 1839, this second husband died, but my grand-mother lived until 1882.
                    Many years passed before it was possible to learn either the date or the place of Chapman
                    Denslow's birth. My grandmother lived either alone or with one of my aunts in the later
                    years of her life, and she died when I was fourteen years old. Up to that time, I did not take the
                    interest in genealogy that I did later on. As a consequence, I have regretted ever since that I did
                    not seize the opportunity to ask her many questions about facts, dates and places that, forty or
                    fifty years later, seemed al-most unanswerable. My maternal grandmother lived with us during her
                    later years, and my awakening interest in my ancestors was satisfied by her excellent memory of the
                    history of my mother's side of the house. I finally bought a blank book and wrote down
                    laboriously the names of all my cousins and aunts and uncles, as well as those of many of their
                    forbears, only to find, in 1888, that John Calhoun Garr, of 
                        Kokomo
                    , had covered all the ground in his monumental Garr Genealogy, which
                    contains the names of more than fifteen thousand of my mother's relatives, all descended
                    from Andreas Gar of Bavaria, who came to the new world towards the end of the German immigration
                    which peopled interior 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and parts of 
                        Virginia
                     and the Carolinas. It was in 
                        Virginia
                     that Andreas Gar settled.
            For many years, the only data or traditions about Chapman Denslow that came to my attention were: the
                    fact that he was a "
                        Connecticut
                     Yankee;" that he married into one of the Dutch families settled along the
                    upper Hudson; that this Hogeboom family into which he married was connected in several ways with the 
                        Van
                     Buren and 
                        Van
                     Ness families; that he came to Indiana early and lived first in Clark and then in 
                        Jennings County
                    ; and the fact that he was in the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign in 1811. There was a more or less vague tradition that he had the title of
                    major from this  service. This was all that I knew or could find
                    out about Chapman Denslow before I started to work. My grandmother and one of her sisters whom I saw
                    when I was a very small boy, for one afternoon only, were the only persons whom I had ever seen who
                    had personally known Chapman Denslow. The census of 1790 did not record his name either in 
                        Connecticut
                     or 
                        New York
                    .
            I saw one day in a book review the name of Professor 
                        Van
                     Buren Denslow of 
                        Columbia
                     University and immediately wrote him through his publishers to learn if he knew
                    anything of the Denslow history. He replied that he knew nothing of the family, but that George
                    MacKenzie Roberts, who was then treasurer-general of the Sons of the American Revolution, was a
                    Denslow descendant and knew about the history of the family. I wrote to Mr. Roberts immediately at
                    the address Professor Denslow gave me and was quite thrilled to find that he was almost as glad to
                    make my acquaintance as I was to make his. He knew that there was a Chapman Denslow but knew little
                    or nothing of his family. Mr. Roberts had become the literary heir of a relative of the preceding
                    generation, had amplified very extensively the data turned over to him and had a most interesting
                    and almost complete history of the Denslow line in America. We both set to work to learn more about
                    my great-grandfather, and I obtained from old residents of 
                        Jennings County
                    , with the help of Judge John W. Carney of Vernon, the names of Chapman
                    Denslow's numerous children. Mr. Roberts and I assumed that he was the youngest son of
                    Samuel Denslow, Jr., of Windsor, 
                        Connecticut
                    , but we soon saw that this would make him rather an old man to endure the rigors of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Campaign. In this campaign, however, as I learned from another source, he spent some
                    time in the camp hospital, presumably from malaria, which was quite prevalent while the army was
                    being assembled and before the fall frosts killed the mosquitoes. My late brother, John F. G.
                    Miller, who lived in 
                        Detroit
                     and later in 
                        Boston
                    , became interested at this point and, through his own researches and the assistance of
                    genealogists in New 
                        England
                    , gave us material aid. We soon found that Chapman Denslow was the grandson, not the son, of Samuel Denslow, Jr., and son of Benjamin Denslow
                    who lived in Windsor, 
                        Connecticut
                    , and who went westward to Flanders, or 
                        Kent
                    , on the Housatonic  River. There he married Sibyl
                    Thompson in 1771 and their first child was Chapman Denslow. It was interesting to note that another
                    son was born on July 4, 1776, who died in infancy. Bejamin Denslow himself died soon after, on
                    August 8, 1776, and his widow, who remarried, survived him sixty-one years, dying at the age of
                    eighty-four on May 22, 1837. The boy, Chapman Denslow, apparently did not get along very well with
                    his half-brothers and half-sisters nor with his step-father. It is possible that his mother did not
                    take his side in this disagreement, for, at the age of eighteen, he asked for a guardian outside of
                    the family, which petition was granted.
            About the time that Chapman Denslow came of age, it is apparent that he left 
                        Connecticut
                     and went to 
                        Columbia
                     County, 
                        New York
                    , to Claverack Township, where, in a few years, he married Sarah Mathilda Hogeboom,
                    daughter of Johannes Hogeboom and Gertrude Muller. The Hogeboom family had been living near 
                        Albany
                     for a century and a half, the first of the name having come over from Holland in 1651
                    with the 
                        Van
                     Rensselaers. Sarah's mother was a descendant of an old French Huguenot family
                    that had fled to Holland at the time of the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. The family wrote the
                    name de Muldor at first which now-a-days is written Miller. It
                    is through Sara Hoge-boom's paternal grandfather, Johannes Hogeboom, Sr., that the
                    descendants of Chapman Denslow inherit their title to membership in the D.A.R. and S.A.R. Chapman
                    Denslow's father died at the very outset of the Revolutionary War, and Sarah
                    Hogeboom's father, blessed with a house full of small children, was not called to service,
                    but Johannes, Sr., al-though at the three-score-and-ten mark, seems to have been a vigorous old
                    gentleman for he enlisted promptly. He was quite a man of the world, having for many years kept a
                    tavern on the 
                        Boston
                     post-road and having been fined on one occasion for playing golf on Sunday.
            On their farm at Claverack, four children were born to Chapman and Sarah Denslow before the urge to
                    move west overtook them. These children were John, Benjamin, Gertrude (my grandmother, born May 4,
                    1801), and Sarah. In 1805, Chapman Denslow, traveling in a covered wagon, made his way with his
                    family to the headwaters of the 
                        Ohio
                    , where he constructed a flatboat and drifted down past Marietta,  the old capital of Northwest Territory, to the mouth of the Scioto,
                    which he laboriously ascended to 
                        Chillicothe
                    , the capital of the new state of 
                        Ohio
                    . Finding the choice land about 
                        Chillicothe
                     already taken up, he went eleven miles north to Circleville (in 1806) and remained
                    there two years. At that time, there was no 
                        Columbus
                     to the north of Circleville. In 1808, hearing of the lands that were being purchased
                    from the Indians in Indiana Territory, he floated down the Scioto to the 
                        Ohio
                     and on to the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     to settle in 
                        Clark county
                    , Indiana, eight years before Indiana became a state. I have so far been unable to
                    locate the exact spot of his settlement, as Clark county was originally granted to the soldiers of
                    George Rogers Clark for service in the capture of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and their title deeds consisted in many cases of certificates, which they carried
                    about with them and did not take the trouble to have recorded. These were simply endorsed over from
                    seller to purchaser, like a note. When they were finally recorded, the intermediate names were not
                    indexed, so that it is practically a hopeless task to try to find one of the endorsers of such a
                    certificate. The dates of Chapman Denslow's journeys to the West, I found in the papers of
                    my cousin, the late John Miller Rose-berry, of Des Moines, 
                        Iowa
                    , who was the first of his generation to become interested in our family history.
            I was unable to verify the connection of Chapman Dens-low with the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign until Colonel William M. Cockrum published his very interesting book,
                    containing the roster of Lieutenant-Colonel Joseph 
                        Bartholomew
                    's Indiana militia. I was once more thrilled to find the name of Chap-man
                    Denslow as sergeant-major on the staff of Colonel 
                        Bartholomew
                    . It is evident that in those days the sergeant-major was given the title of major by
                    courtesy, just as now-a-days, a lieutenant-colonel is often referred to as colonel.
            The Pigeon Roost Massacre occurred only a few miles to the north in 1813, and the Denslow family
                    presumably fled to one of the numerous block houses in Clark and Jefferson counties, as did other
                    settlers. Chapman Denslow moved over into the southern part of Jennings county, near the Graham fork
                    of the Muscatatuck River, where he entered land in 1815. When the county was organized in 1817, he
                    was elected one of the associate judges. Under the first constitution of Indiana, two laymen,
                    usually farmers, were  made associate judges for each county, to
                    discharge routine duties of the circuit court, especially probate matters, and to try persons
                    accused of misdemeanors. Criminal cases and other more important matters awaited the arrival of the
                    judge who rode the circuit of several counties with his train of lawyers. Chapman Denslow was chosen
                    associate judge and probate judge of the county at successive elections until his death in 1834. The
                    court record is the only means we have of knowing just when his death occurred and this shows that
                    it must have been in August, 1834, when he was sixty-two years old. The facts about his service in
                    the circuit court were obtained from the valuable work of Judge Leonidas Monks. I have tried in many
                    ways to find the exact date of Chapman Denslow's death, but none of the files of old papers
                    in southern Indiana has so far yielded any information on this subject. The farm on which he lived
                    is now owned by Mr. Sam Deputy, who took me to the spot where the house was and showed me the two
                    graves of Chapman Denslow and his wife Sarah, who survived her husband some fourteen years. The
                    graves are a few hundred feet from the house in the pasture which slopes down to a little stream.
                    The graves are marked simply by pieces of rough limestone, so that no names or dates are preserved.
            There is an unconfirmed family tradition that Chapman Denslow taught school after he came to Indiana,
                    and it might well be that he had a literary bent, as three of his chilren were named Cassandra,
                    Lucinda, and Zerelda. Those names certainly did not come from his Dutch wife's ancestors
                    nor from the 
                        Connecticut
                     Denslows. I was confused for a time with the record of the birth and christening of a
                    son Benjamin born in Claverack, and a son Benjamin born in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1807. This date came from descendants of the 
                        Ohio
                     Benjamin and is apparently incontestable. Later research developed the fact that the
                    Benjamin born in Claverack died in infancy and the name, which was that of Chapman
                    Denslow's father, was given to the son born in 1807.
            Chapman Denslow's eldest son, John H. Denslow, inherited his father's pioneer
                    instincts and, in 1849, when it was announced that gold had been discovered in 
                        California
                    , he sold his farm in Jennings county, loaded his family and house-hold goods in a
                    covered wagon and started for the western coast. When he arrived at the 
                        Missouri
                     River, where the  city of 
                        St. Joseph
                     now stands, he found there a swarm of like-minded adventurers, who were unable to cross
                    the wide, deep, muddy river then at flood tide. This group with its lack of organization and neglect
                    of sanitation soon became a hot bed for disease, and the dread scourge of cholera appeared. John
                    Hogeboom Denslow was swiftly carried away, and his widow was left among strangers with a large
                    family of children and a multitude of counsellors. She took the advice of those who recommended to
                    her the fertile prairie lands of the new state of 
                        Iowa
                    , which had been admitted to the union only three years before. Here she settled at once
                    and reared her family. Descendants of this family are to be found in several states of the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     region. John's brother Benjamin followed his relatives to 
                        Iowa
                     a fgw years later and lived there to a good old age, leaving one son. Chapman Denslow
                    had eleven children in all. In addition to those already named there were: Sarah, named for her
                    mother, Harriet, named for another Dutch relative, Charlotte and Mary.
            Sarah Mathilda Hogeboom, who became the wife of Chapman Denslow, was a typically industrious,
                    spotlessly clean, courageous Dutch maiden. There is a family tradition that in the last days of the
                    Revolutionary war, when Sarah was just about grown, a foraging party of British soldiers appeared
                    suddenly one day near Claverack. Sarah looked on while the soldiers appropriated some feed for their
                    horses, but when they approached the precious fruit cellar, dug in the side of a hill, lined with
                    stone and straw, and filled with apples, turnips, carrots, beets, and other precious vegetables
                    which gave variety to her diet, Sarah sprang to life. She grasped a pitch fork and took her station
                    in front of the fruit cellar door and defied the enemy to come on. The officer in charge of the
                    party burst into a hearty laugh at the defiance of the little Hollander, and he and his men rode on
                    to another farm where the folks were not so belligerent.
            Gertrude Denslow, eldest daughter of Chapman and Sarah Denslow, was born in Claverack township, on
                    May 24, 1801. She was not very tall and weighed only a little over one hundred pounds, but from her
                    blue eyes there could flash the same Dutch courage which her mother had shown in the incident just
                    related. She was only twelve years old when the family had to take refuge in a 
                        Clark County
                     blockhouse  at the time of the Pigeon Roost
                    Massacre, which occurred a few miles away. She shared the anxieties of the house-hold during her
                    father's absence in the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign against the Shawnees. She learned all the arts of the pioneer woman, and, when
                    she married John Smith Miller, on March 20, 1823, she felt no fear as they went on horseback into
                    the wilderness of the new county named Johnson. The territory embraced in 
                        Johnson County
                     had been purchased from the 
                        Delaware
                     Indians by Jonathan Jennings, Benjamin Parke and Lewis Cass as commissioners in 1818,
                    had been surveyed in 1819 and 1820, and the lands were placed on sale in 1821. On August 31 of that
                    year, John Smith Miller bought the first tract of land taken up in what is now 
                        Nineveh
                     Township. He spent the spring, summer and fall of 1822 clearing a field and building a
                    small log cabin. He had chosen the highest hill in 
                        Nineveh
                     Township in order to be able to live above the mosquito-infested lowlands of the East
                    Fork of 
                        Nineveh
                     Creek. It may not be out of order to mention here that the two forks of 
                        Nineveh
                     converge in the northern part of 
                        Bartholomew county
                     to form what is known as Big 
                        Nineveh
                    , a tributary of Driftwood, or the East Fork of White River.
                    Nineveh was known by the Indians as Leatherwood, from trees of that same name which grew in numbers
                    on the banks, but, after young 
                        Nineveh
                     Berry fell from an icy log into the stream, while returning from hunting with a deer on
                    his shoulder, Leatherwood Creek became "
                        Nineveh
                    's Defeat." This was later shortened to 
                        Nineveh
                    .
            John Smith Miller was the oldest son of a Scotch-Irish immigrant, John Miller, who arrived in America
                    in 1767 from Ulster. As a child, with his father of the same name, he settled in western 
                        North Carolina
                    , near Rutherfordton. John Miller, Jr., at the close of the war of 1812, took his wife
                    and family of fourteen children across the mountains into 
                        Kentucky
                    , but, finding the best land of that area all taken, proceeded in 1815 to Indiana, where
                    he settled in Jennings county in the year that the county was organized (1817). He and his wife
                    (Jane Smith, daughter of John Smith), for whom the eldest son was named, are buried in the old
                    Graham Presbyterian Churchyard west of Dupont. The church is named for the Graham Fork of the
                    Muscatatuck River, which flows close by and which joins the Vernon Fork to  form the Muscatatuck, tributary of the East Fork of White
                        River.
            John Smith Miller's younger brother, Uriah Robertson Miller, walked across the hills and
                    enrolled as a student in 
                        Hanover
                     College when that institution was first opened. His college life was cut short,
                    however, by typhoid fever, which carried him away in the fall of 1829. Another brother of John Smith
                    Miller was William, who married Rhoda Thomas of Jefferson county. When Rhoda was a small child, she
                    was a source of wonderment and fascination to roving Indian hunters, who, since they lived entirely
                    surrounded by brunettes, never tired of admiring the blonde curls and blue eyes of the little white
                    girl. In fact, so persistent were their admiration and offers to buy her for a high price, that her
                    mother kept the child constantly in her sight, and, when the other children found their way through
                    the dense forest to the neighborhood school, the mother would not allow Rhoda to go with them. She
                    felt sure that the Indians would like nothing better than to carry her off, as they did a number of
                    children in the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. When the Indians left Indiana, Rhoda had
                    become such a big girl that she was ashamed to start with the beginners and so never received a book
                    education, although she became most proficient in in all the arts of the housewife. When the Civil
                    war came, two of her stalwart sons went to the front and letters soon began arriving from them.
                    After being compelled to rely on other members of the family to read them to her, Rhoda (Thomas)
                    Miller, then fifty years old, determined to read and write her own letters. She obtained the primary
                    books and carried them about the house with her while at her daily tasks and was soon able to write
                    to her soldier sons and to read their replies as many times as she liked without calling for
                    assistance.
            The little cabin of John Smith and Gertrude Denslow Miller in Johnson County was like all the
                    log-houses of that period, built beside a spring. The spring water was later piped down the hill to
                    the lower ground by Alonzo Gale, who bought the farm several years later. This water still runs in
                    the "milk house" through the trough in which milk and butter are kept as in a
                    primitive refrigerator. The nearest cabin when Gertrude Denslow Miller became a house-keeper in 
                        Nineveh
                     Township was that of Jaob Woodruff, who  had come
                    to 
                        Nineveh
                     the same year that John Smith Miller arrived and who had opened a store on the corner
                    of his land one-half mile east of the village of 
                        Williamsburg
                    , now 
                        Nineveh
                    . Williamsburg was named for the early capital of 
                        Virginia
                    , but was compelled by the Post Office Department to give up that name because of prior
                    use by a village of the same name in 
                        Wayne
                     county, Indiana. Joab Woodruff, by the way, whose grandson Benjamin Woodruff still
                    lives on the old farm, was a mighty hunter. During the first year after he built his store at the
                    cross roads, he killed three hundred seventy deer and was able to keep his own family and the
                    families of many of his customers, who were too busy with other matters to hunt for themselves, or
                    too unskilled, supplied with fresh meat. Joab Woodruff also killed many bears and wolves during
                    those early years.
            Gertrude Denslow Miller thus lived nearly a mile from the nearest store, and in between was an
                    unbroken and almost impenetrable forest. Many of the tulip trees, white oaks and black walnuts were
                    more than six feet in diameter, and their leafy tops were so interlaced that the sun never struck
                    the ground. The squirrels who found abundant food under the walnut, butternut, hickory and beech
                    trees, welcomed enthusiastically the prospect of a change of diet and fell on the new corn fields in
                    the fall like a swarm of locusts. One settler nearby reported having harvested one whole ear of corn
                    from four acres of shocks after the squirrels had finished their work. Gertrude Denslow Miller,
                    however, shouldered her husband's trusty rifle and patrolled the corn field with such good
                    effect that a fairly good harvest was had even the first year. She later told her grandchildren that
                    she had no use for a rifleman who would shoot a squirrel or any other kind of game thrugh the body
                    and thus deface the hide and spoil a good cut of meat. Small though she was, she handled the heavy
                    rifle with such good effect that all her squirrels were shot in the head. The first three yars of
                    her married life found her left alone frequently by her husband, who was forced to make trips to
                    Jennings county or to 
                        Madison
                     to obtain articles which were not available in Joab Woodruff's store. She told
                    her grandchildren of many occasions on which roving Indian hunters, singly or in bands, stopped to
                    ask for a drink from the spring, a piece of corn-bread, or something else that happened to strike
                    their fancy. In  midsummer, they were very prone to steal
                    roasting-ears from the far side of the corn patch. She kept her rifle just inside the door and said
                    that she never felt any real fear of the visitors. A cabin was built after three years by her
                    nearest neighbor, Robert Moore, who entered the eighty acres to the west of the Miller land in 1824.
            John Smith Miller kept on clearini additional land and improving his farm until, in 1826, he was
                    offered $400 for it, four times the amount he had paid the 
                        United States
                     Government in 1821. He then sold this farm to William Gillaspy and bought Robert
                    Moore's land to the west for $200 and had a nice nest-egg of cash. His family
                    was increasing. His oldest son, George 
                        Washington
                    , arrived in the 
                        Nineveh
                     forests in 1825. There, the young father erected a two-story, double log cabin near the
                    center of the tract he had bought, and, as always, near a spring. The site of the original cabin of
                    Robert Moore is near another spring which was evidently very popular with game in the early days,
                    because Indian arrow-heads and tomahawks are still turned up by the plow in its neighborhood. In her
                    new home, which was one of the large dwellings of the neighborhood, Gertrude Denslow Miller had room
                    for her loom, on which she wove the material for the clothing of her family of six children. In my
                    boyhood, I was interested to find also in the deserted building candle-moulds, spinning-wheels, and
                    other relics of the early days. On the outside wall of an addition to the house, one of my aunts
                    once showed me holes bored in the logs where sharp pegs had been inserted to hold up the occasional
                    newspaper, which reached the family from 
                        Cincinnati
                     or 
                        Louisville
                    , and which my grandmother read diligently as she churned, while standing to manipulate
                    the old churndasher.
            John Smith Miller was one of the leaders in his neighborhood and county and was a member of the first
                    board of county commissioners when Johnson County was organized, and also a member of the first
                    grand jury. He was a giant of six feet, four inches, weighing over two hundred pounds and must have
                    caused some merriment among his neighbors when he appeared with his tiny wife. His well-founded
                    dread of malaria-bearing mosquitoes, which had led him to build his first cabin on the top of the
                    highest hill that he could find, was forgotten, to his cost. In midsummer,  1834, he came down with a most vicious attack of that dread scourge of
                    pioneer days, ague, or chills and fever, or malaria, and the physician who was called in used the
                    only anti-pyretic known in that neighborhood, blood-letting. So the doctor bled his patient until
                    the patient's fever left him, and his life left with it. About the only other remedy known
                    to medical science in those days was calomel, which was given in terrific doses, and with terrific
                    results. There was no surprise that in some neighborhoods, notably in the New Hope community, north
                    of 
                        Columbus
                    , practice of the Thompsonian type appeared. Joseph Fassett, farmer, teacher, minister
                    and physician, practiced Thompsonian medicine there for more than one-fourth of a century with
                    considerable success. He discarded calomel and other mineral drugs and used the herbs, barks, and
                    roots that the Indians found so efficacious on many occasions. He was too far away to be called for
                    John Smith Miller, however, and Gertrude was left a widow with her six children in 1834, her son
                    George being only nine years of age at the time. She told us in later years that she did the plowing
                    and the wood-chopping for a year or two and that, when it came to cultivating corn and vegetables,
                    she would pull the cultivating plow herself with little George at the handles. In 1836, she
                    remarried, the Rev. Aaron Farmer, a preacher-farmer of the Newbern community of 
                        Bartholomew
                     County and a minister of the United Brethren church, becoming her second husband. He
                    lived only three years after the marriage, however, and she then remained a widow until her death in
                    1882, at the age of eighty-one. The youngest daughter of her first husband died early, but the
                    oldest of her second husband's two children grew to womanhood, and so the mother lived to
                    see six children grown and married. She had frequent reunions with them and with her thirty-two
                    grandchildren in her old age.
            The farm which her first husband bought from Robert Moore in 1826 remained in possession of members
                    of the Miller family until 1933, when it was transferred to the 
                        Nineveh
                     Christian Church by the will of Gertrude Denslow Miller (granddaughter of Mrs. Gertrude
                    Denslow Miller) and by deed of her brothers and sisters. These, the writer being included, were the
                    children of John Chapman Miller, who, named for his two grandfathers, was born in the double log
                    house in 1831 and died on the same farm in 1901. The farm  was
                    operated first by Gertrude Denslow Miller, Sr. (Mrs. John Smith Miller), with the aid of her
                    children, then by her eldest son George, with whom she lived. The place was sold by him to her
                    youngest daughter, Lucinda, who had married Virgil Preston Gale. They lived on the original Miller
                    tract to the east. Gale soon sold the farm to my father, John Chapman Miller, who built on it, in
                    1866, the house which now stands in excellent repair and which is used as the parsonage of the 
                        Nineveh
                     Christian Church. John Chapman Miller was prepared for college by William
                    Satterthwaite, a graduate of Bethany College, who came from his home in 
                        Ohio
                     to the vicinity of 
                        Columbus
                    , married Josephine Troutman, in the New Hope neighborhood, and, after teaching at 
                        Columbus
                    , went to 
                        Nineveh
                     to establish what was a forerunner of the high school. He died young of tuberculosis.
            John Chapman Miller was graduated from Indiana University, where he was a roommate and fellow Phi
                    Delta Theta with Judge David Demaree Banta, historian of 
                        Johnson County
                    . After further study at Bethany College in 
                        Virginia
                    , Mr. Miller spent some years in the Christian ministry at 
                        Madison
                     and then bought the old home from his brother-in-law and sister, Mr. and Mrs. Gale. He
                    'built the house there, to which reference has been made, in the summer of 1866. In that
                    fall, he opened, in the old Christian church building in 
                        Nineveh
                    , a high school or academy. In this school, for the next four years, he prepared a large
                    number of students for college. This academy was doubtless the inspiration for the 
                        Nineveh
                     high school which was erected in 1876. This high school was said by Fassett A. Cotton,
                    former state superintendent of public instruction (and, like his later successor, Floyd MacMurray, a
                    native of 
                        Nineveh
                    ), in his History of Education in Indiana, to have been the first
                    township high school in Indiana. Because of my father's educational experience, he was
                    permitted to train his children at home, where he prepared them to enter college. His mother,
                    Gertrude Denslow Miller, Sr., lived in the new house erected by him in 1866 from 1870 to 1876, while
                    he was minister of the Third Christian Church in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and member of the faculty of 
                        Butler
                     University (then Northwestern Christian University). For a few years after her son
                    returned to the farm in 1876, she lived  there with him, but
                    later took a house in the village of 
                        Nineveh
                    , near her beloved Methodist church, in which she was superintendent of the Sunday
                    School and chief pillar until her death. When her health broke, she went to live with her daughter
                    Martha (Mrs. John Keaton).
            Gertrude Denslow Miller, Sr., was as industrious as a reader as she was a worker with her hands. When
                    the day's work was done, her chickens safely locked up for the night and all the other
                    evening work completed, she always read her Bible, the Western Christian Advocate
                    and some religious book until her early bedtime. She was then up by candle-light in the early
                    morning and busy from the start. I have called her Gertrude Denslow Miller, Sr., because her
                    grand-daughter of the same name (my sister) lived on the same farm and managed it with much the same
                    ability for more than thirty years. Gertrude, the elder, was really Mrs. Gertrude Denslow (Miller)
                    Farmer. John Chapman Miller, father of the younger Gertrude Denslow Miller (also my father) died in
                    1901. Then my sister took charge of affairs on the home place until her death in 1933. She suffered
                    a stroke while hurrying across a field to put out a brush fire which had threatened one of her
                    fences. She was the chief pillar of the 
                        Nineveh
                     Christian Church, its leader in all departments of work, and the guardian of community
                    welfare, appearing at every sick-bed, in the home of every shut-in, and on every other occasion that
                    required aid or sympathy, with inevitable regularity. It was mentioned, at the time of her death,
                    that the farm for more than a hundred years had been the home of a Gertrude Denslow Miller, who,
                    most of the time was its sole manager.
            It has been mentioned that Chapman Denslow was the oldest child of Benjamin Denslow and Sibyl
                    Tmompson of 
                  Kent, Connecticut
               . Benjamin was the son of Samuel Dens-low, Jr., and Sarah
                    Chapman. Samuel Denslow, Sr., was the son of Henry Denslow, who was born in 
                        England
                     in 1615. Henry, in 1676, while King Philip's Indians were waging their deadly
                    war against the New 
                        England
                     settlers, left the blockhouse at Windsor one afternoon to go up the 
                        Connecticut
                     River to his farm at Windsor Locks to salt his cattle. He was warned that the Indians
                    had been reported close at hand, but said that he was not afraid of any Indian that ever lived. He
                    should have heeded the warning, for he  was taken prisoner and
                    killed by the savages. The site of his house in Windsor Locks is marked by a huge boulder and a
                    bronze plate. Early genealogists record that the father of Henry Denslow was Nicholas Denslow, who
                    came to 
                        Massachusetts
                     Bay on the Mary and John in 1630. This is a widely accepted view
                    today, but some have dissented on the ground that Henry was not named in the will of Nicholas nor in
                    the passenger list of the Mary and John. There is evidence against this view and
                    in favor of the original one of Nicholas as the father of Henry, in that Nicholas lived to be quite
                    old, remarried, and named in his will of 1666 only children and grandchildren of the second
                    marriage. Those of the first marriage were then grown up, married, and in possession of property.
                    Also, even if Henry came over with his father, it was not surprising that a boy of fifteen might not
                    be mentioned, and quite possibly Henry came over from 
                        England
                     to join his father and step-mother at a later date. In any event, it is agreed that
                    Nicholas was either the uncle or the father of Henry Denslow. Nicholas was a freeman, or voting
                    citizen, of Dorchester, now a part of 
                        Boston
                    , for six years, during which time the town-meeting, as New 
                        England
                    ', knows it, had its origin there. In 1636, he was one of the party under the
                    leadership of Hooker and Stone who walked through the wilderness to the 
                        Connecticut
                     River and founded the town of Windsor. The following year, when the Pequot Indians
                    massacred thirty of the 
                        Connecticut
                     settlers and threatened a war of extermination, Nicholas was one of the little band of
                    militia who used Indian tactics to locate and surround the tribe near Groton, and, in the battle of
                    Mystic, practically exterminated the Pequot tribe, distributing its survivors among other tribes.
            Nicholas Denslow was the oldest white man in this battle. Along with other ancestors of Champan
                    Denslow, he was a citizen of 
                        Connecticut
                     in 1639, when the char-ter that is called the first written constitution of a
                    self-governing people was granted. Of late years, an amateur genealogist in 
                        England
                    , a retired slergyman, has been investigating the early history of the Denslow family
                    and has produced evidence indicating that the first of the name was one Giovanni di Angelo, who
                    emigrated from 
                        Italy
                     to 
                        England
                     in the reign of Henry VIII, before Henry broke with the pope over the question of
                    divorcing his  wife. After this break with the Pope, King Henry
                    looked with disfavor on these Italian citizens, and they found it wise to change their names.
                    Giovanni di Angelo, who had meantime married Johanna Bailey, took his wife's maiden name.
                    After the intensity of this feeling against the Italians died down, he was known as di Angelo alias
                    Bailey. Finally di Angelo in everyday speech became Denzhlo, then Denzlo, and
                    finally Denslow. This Italian-born English-man had a son, Hugh, who had, among
                    other children, Nicholas and John as sons. It is now believed that, if Henry was not the son of
                    Nicholas, he was certainly the son of John, and consequently descended from Hugh and his Italian
                    father.
            Among the early ancestors of Chapman Denslow are the Grants. His grandmother Sarah Chapman was a
                    daughter of Henry Chapman and Hannah Grant, Hannah being a daughter of Tahan Grant and Hannah
                    Palmer. Tahan Grant was the son of Matthew Grant and Priscilla Grey. Matthew was, along with
                    Nicholas Denslow, a passenger on the Mary and John and a founder of Windsor. He
                    was the historian of early Windsor, keeping a diary in which he set down everything with meticulous
                    care. He was the ancestor of the chief line of Grant in the 
                        United States
                    , of which President Ulysses S. Grant was a member. Amateur genealogists (including the
                    writer) were considerably excited for some time over the possibility that Priscilla Grey, Matthew
                    Grant's wife, was the daughter of the Reverend Anthony Grey of 
                        England
                    , whose line of descent can be very accurately traced back to the Plantagenet family of
                    English kings and through them to Charlemagne and certain of the later rulers of the Holy Roman
                    Empire. We learned, however, by later investigation, that the Priscilla Grey who was the daughter of
                    the Reverend Anthony Grey was too young to have been the wife of Matthew Grant, when he was married
                    in 1623. The Grants trace their English ancestry back to William Graunt of Roxby in Yorkshire, who
                    is said to have come down to 
                        England
                     from the Grant clan of Inverness, 
                        Scotland
                    . Nicholas Denslow, Matthew Grant, Nicholas Palmer (father of Hannah), Giles Gibbs, and
                    Thomas Dibble (father of Hepzibah, who married Samuel, son of Giles Gibbs, and mother of Patience)
                    were all charter members of the First Congregational Church of Windsor, which was organized  in 1630 on the Mary and John during its
                    voyage to America. This church celebrated its three-hundredth anniversary some years ago, and the
                    historian of that occasion claimed that it was the first Congregational church in America.
            In the old churchyard at Windsor lies Katherine Gibbs, wife of Giles, who died in 1660, and the
                    inscription on whose tombstone, a large slab covering the entire grave, may still be easily read.
                    John F. G. Miller, brother of the writer, in recent years, carried on an investigation of the
                    ancestry of Sibyl Thompson, Chapman Denslow's mother. Her name, by the way, is spelled Sibbel (and almost every other way except the correct way) in the records of her
                    day. She was the daughter of Elizur (or Eleazar) Thompson and Esther 
                        Hamilton
                    . Elizur was the son of Daniel Thompson and Sarah Bronson. Daniel lived in Redding, but
                    Sarah came from 
                        Hartford
                    . Daniel was the son of Thomas Thompson Junior, and Elizabeth Smith, who was the
                    daughter of Arthur Smith, 'a founder of 
                        Hartford
                    . Thomas Thompson, Jr., was married twice, and there was much worry for a time on the
                    part of my brother and me, lest a family skeleton had been dragged from the closet in our family
                    line. It seems that the second wife of Thomas, Junior, was a lady of fiery temper and that, in the
                    course of a violent disagreement with her husband, she threw a pair of scissors at him with unerring
                    aim. A point penetrated one eye to the brain and killed Thomas. She was imprisoned for about two
                    years while the authorities of the colony were deciding whether to impose the death penalty on a
                    woman criminal. Early in her imprisonment she gave birth to a daughter whom she hopefully called Mercy. The authorities, however, decided that a murderess was a murderer and
                    executed Mrs. Thompson by hanging. The brother of the writer finally obtained definite proof that
                    Chapman Denslow was descended from the, first wife and could not possibly feel any disgrace be-cause
                    of the tragedies just described.
            Thomas Thompson, Jr., was the son of Thomas Thompson, Sr., who married Anne Welles, eldest daughter
                    of Thomas Welles, twice governor of the colony of 
                        Connecticut
                    , deputy governor at different times, first treasurer of the colony and an officer of
                    some sort from its very beginning. He came of an ancient English family which is said to have come
                    north to Normandy from southern 
                        France
                     two or three  centuries before the 
                        Norman
                     Conquest. Two bishops of this family have their names on Magna Carta
                    and one of them, Hugo, is credited with having written it. For many years, genealogists gave the
                    name of the wife of Thomas Welles as Elizabeth Hunt, but this was based solely on a reference in the
                    will of an elderly maiden named Hunt to "Onckle" Wells. It is now believed that
                    this title of "Uncle" was the same title of respect which was given in pioneer
                    days, as well as in my own boyhood, to all the older members of the community, for it is now quite
                    well established that Elizabeth Hunt was the wife of the grandfather of Thomas Welles (Thomas
                    Welles, father of Robert) and that the wife of Thomas Welles himself was Alice Tome. Alice has a
                    very interesting line of descent, which is probably reliable for a number of generations back, but
                    which begins to be-come somewhat questionable with the name of a Norwegian freebooter (named
                    Bardolf), born in the year 1045. Ancestors of Chapman Denslow's grandmother, Esther 
                        Hamilton
                    , were: Benjamin 
                        Hamilton
                     and Esther Williams; Joseph 
                        Hamilton
                    , of Danbury, son of William and grandson of Gallatin 
                        Hamilton
                    , of 
                  Glasgow, Scotland
               ; Thom-as Williams, Jr., and Esther Smith; Thomas Williams,
                    Senior, and Ruth Bradley; Samuel Smith and Sarah Frost; Daniel Frost (son of William) and Elizabeth
                    Barlow (daughter of John and Ann); Francis Bradley and Ruth Barlow (also daughters of John and Ann).
                    Other ancestors of Champan Denslow were: Samuel Bronson and Sarah Gibbs; Jacob Gibbs (son of Giles)
                    and Elizabeth Andros; Richard Bronson and Abigail Wibourne; Edward Chapman and Elizabeth Clark Fox;
                    John Thomson and Beatrice Detton; George Detton and Anne Thomas (daughter of Walter ap Thomas);
                    Robert Detton and Mary Kittleby; John Detton and Anna Broughton; Walter Broughton and Jane Haven.
            The above names may not be interesting to the average reader, but, in years to come, they may reach
                    the eyes of someone who is making a search and who will welcome clues. Most of them are to be found
                    in records of 
                        Hartford
                    , Danbury, Wethersfield, Redding, Farmington, 
                  Fairfield, Kent
                or Windsor.
                    Notices of arrival of the ship, the John and Mary, appear in early Dorchester, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , records. The sixteenth century names are from Engilsh  records reproduced in American genealogical publications.
            It is an interesting commentary on the interest of the present generation in the past to note that
                    Chapman Dens-low probably did riot know the name of any of his ancestors farther back than his
                    grandparents or some of his great-grandparents, at most. We owe quite a debt of gratitude to the New 
                        England
                     towns that have preserved their records so faithfully and which have placed typewritten
                    copies in the 
                        Connecticut
                     state library at 
                        Hartford
                    , as well as in the libraries of the original towns where we have had occasion to make
                    investigations. George MacKenzie Roberts, former treasurer-general of the Sons of the American
                    Revolution, to whom reference was made above, went to 
                        England
                     early in the summer of 1939 to piece out some missing portions of the Denslow
                    genealogy. He was surprised and yet gratified to find that these priceless records are not available
                    at present in 
                        England
                     but are being preserved against any possibility of damage by the hazards of war. They
                    are stored away in underground vaults, are covered with sandbags and will be accessible only to the
                    curious eyes of genealogists of the post-war generation.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society.
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            The Publications Committee acts for the Society in decisions upon manuscripts which are offered to
                    the Society for publication. Members of this Committee (in 1940) are: Professor Theodore G. Gronert, 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , chairman, and Nellie C. Armstrong, Lee Burns, and Professor Clarence Efroymson, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Miss Armstrong prepared a short statement for the July issue of the Indiana History Bulletin on "The Preparation of Manuscripts for
                    Publication" (Vol. 17, pp. 273-275), which has been reprinted as a separate publication and
                    is available on request at the Historical Bureau.
            The number and length of the publications of the Society, fortunately or unfortunately, are limited
                    by the relatively small amount of funds which may be used for that purpose—the income
                    from the William H. English fund of $2500 and the portion of the membership fees not
                    absolutely required for other purposes. This means that frequently a long interval elapses between
                    the acceptance of a manuscript and its preparation for the press. The preparation of manuscripts for
                    the press—checking the accuracy of statements, verifying, correcting references, insuring
                    uniformity and reading proofs—has for some years been done by the staff of the Historical
                    Bureau. The Bureau is authorized by law "to promote the study of Indiana history in
                    co-operation with the Indiana historical society and any other like organizhtions."
            The latest issue of the Indiana Historical Society Publications is Camp Morton
                    1861-1865, 
                        Indianapolis
                     Prison Camp by Hattie Lou Winslow and Joseph R. H. Moore, which, with the Index,
                    completes Volume 13 of the series. The next Publication is to be Irving McKee's edition of
                    the letters and journal of Father Benjamin Petit, covering the removal of the Potawatomi in 1837.
                    Volume 1 of the Prehistory Research Series was completed with the publication this
                    year of Number 10 and the Index. The first number of Volume 2 of the Prehistory
                        Research Series is to be an account of Rex K. Miller's examination of a
                    prehistoric site in 
                        Dubois County
                    .
            The Committee on Pioneer Cemeteries and Churches is one of the most active committees of the society.
                    Harry O. Garman, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is the chairman of this Committee and has representatives in all but four counties of
                    the state. The Committee stimulates interest in finding pioneer cemetries and in recordipg names of
                    persons buried therein. The  lists of burials, after being
                    completed, are turned over to the Genealogy Division of the Indiana State Library. These old
                    cemetries are fast disappearing and the recording of names from the tombstones is a great aid to
                    genealogists. So far this year, members of this Committee and their assistants have turned over to
                    the Genealogy Division records from nineteen cemetries in 
                        Marion County
                    ; one in 
                        Putnam
                     County; eight in. Hendrickg County; thirty-five in 
                        Cass County
                    ; and one in 
                        Dearborn
                     County. In the last named county the list of burials in the old Newton Cemetery, which
                    burying place was abandoned and the contents of graves removed to the Greendale Cemetery, was
                    fortunately obtained. Mrs. Ransom Griffin and Miss Thelma Murphy, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , were mainly responsible for obtaining the 
                        Marion
                     County records; H. Dale Somers, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the records for Hendricks County; Mrs. C. C. Collins, of Roachdale, those for 
                        Putnam
                     County; and Robert B. Whitsett, Jr., of 
                        Logansport
                    , those for 
                        Cass County
                    .
            The Library Committee is in charge of the Indiana Historical Society Library (William Henry Smith
                    Memorial Library). The members of this Committee are Benjamin D. Hitz, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , chairman, Lee Burns, J. K. Lilly, Jr., Perry W. Lesh, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Frederick D. Rose, 
                        Muncie
                    . The Committee determines the policies of the Library and decides upon important
                    purchases. Among the Library's acquisitions this year are: letters of various members of
                    the Owen family to James M. Dorsey; autobiographical notes of Miner K. Kellog concerning a year of
                    his boyhood spent in 
                        New Harmony
                     in the Owen period; and letters of Judge Jeremiah Sullivan (a gift of George H.
                    Sullivan). A number of William Henry Harrison manuscripts have been added to the Library's
                    already large collection of his papers. Two hundred sixteen photographic prints of portraits of
                    Indiana men and women, most of them painted by early Indiana artists, have been obtained from Wilbur
                    D. Peat, who is making a study of these early portrait painters. The Library now totals
                    approximately 3,327 volumes, 1,278 pamphlets, and 7,300 manuscripts. It occupies a large front room
                    in the State Library and Historical Building and enjoys the closest cooperation of the State Library
                    and of the Historical Bureau. The general policy of the Committee in receiving and purchasing
                    acquisitions has been to specialize in the rarer and more valuable items, books, maps, and
                    manuscripts that relate to the Old Northwest.
         
         
         
            Documents LETTERS TO COLONEL WILLIAM R. HOLLOWAY, 1893-1897
            
               Edited by A. DALE BEELER
            The political campaign of 1896 is properly regarded by students of American history as one of the
                    most significant in the political annals of our country since the Civil War. The financial and
                    economic policies of the national government constituted the important issues before the electorate
                    in. that year, but of equal, if not greater, weight was the choice of presidential candidates.
                    President 
                        Cleveland
                    , by his financial measures, had fallen into disfavor with and had been repudiated by a
                    large section of his party. Although some Democratic stalwarts urged his renomination for a third
                    term to save the party, he early signified his unwillingness to be drafted for further public
                    service. William Jennings Bryan of 
                        Nebraska
                    , who had recently served two terms in the national House and who had become one of the
                    outstanding spokesmen of the "free-silver" element, was rapidly making himself the
                    inevitable candidate of the western and southern Democrats and Populists.
            The Republican party, in 1896, was confronted with the more difficult task of making a choice between
                    several prominent and more or less receptive leaders. Former President Benjamin Harrison of Indiana,
                    defeated by 
                        Cleveland
                     in 1892, was considered by many to be entitled to a re-nomination. His friends, against
                    his wishes, labored long but in-effectually to put him in the race. Thomas B. Reed, of 
                        Maine
                    , Speaker of the House of Representatives, was an active candidate, widely endorsed but
                    lacking an efficient organization. Governor Levi P. Morton, of 
                        New York
                    , had adequate financial backing and an extensive organization, but he lacked popular
                    appeal. Several Republican Senators aspired to the nomination without being serious contenders.
                    Governor William McKinley of 
                        Ohio
                    , whose name was so intimately connected with the high protective tariff of 1890, had
                    behind him a vigorous organization led by the prominent 
                        Cleveland
                     industrialist, Marcus Alonzo Hanna, who was determined to see his friend and protege
                    placed in the White House. The pre-convention campaign of the Hanna-McKinley forces was so energetic
                    that it alarmed other Republican  candidates who made futile
                    efforts to stop the progress of the favorite.
            Among those Hoosier politicians who early mounted the McKinley band-wagon was Colonel William R.
                    Holloway, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who for more than thirty years had been a wheel-horse of the Republican state
                    organization. A brother-in-law of the great Republican leader, Oliver P. Morton, Colonel Holloway
                    had enjoyed political favors in the form of appointive offices throughout most of that period, but
                    he was still hungering for further recognition in 1896. Holloway started his public career in 1852
                    as a newspaper reporter, first on his father's paper, the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Palladium. Later he worked on a 
                        Cincinnati
                     paper until 1858. After a short period at the bar, he answered the call of his
                    brother-in-law, Governor Oliver P. Morton, and became private-secretary to Indiana's War
                    Governor early in 1861. This position he held until 1863, when he resigned and went to 
                        New York
                     City on some kind of business not revealed to the public. In 1864, he returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and became the sole owner and editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal. The next year, he sold the Journal and took up again
                    his service with Governor Morton as confidential secretary and adviser. News-paper work having too
                    much attraction for him to resist, he then re-purchased a part interest in the Journal and continued to help formulate its editorial policies until 1872.1
            
            Meanwhile, in 1869, through the influence of Senator Morton, Holloway was appointed postmaster of
                    Indianapolis by President Grant and this position he continued to hold until 1881, being
                    re-appointed by President Hayes in 1877. As a venture into the field of literature, he produced in
                    1870 a valuable guide-book-directory, 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        —a Historical and Statistical Sketch of the Railroad City."
                    After relinquishing his share in the Journal again in 1872, he once more, in 1875,
                    resumed part ownership for a brief interval, the paper passing finally into the possession of John
                    C. New of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1880. Holloway's experiment, in that year, with a new morning newspaper,
                        The Times, ended in failure after a short run. During the years from 1881
                    until 1892, Colonel Holloway seems to have been on the wrong side of 
                  
                     1 The biographical information presented above has been gleaned from:
                            Berry Sul-grove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884); Journal Handbook of Indiana; and The Biographical History
                                of Eminent and Self-made Men of the State of Indiana (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880).
               
                     the political fence, or with the wrong party group, so far as
                    enjoying public office mattered. Democratic successes and his failure to line up with the Harrison
                    backers account chiefly for his being left out in the cold. In the period from 1892 until 1896, he
                    is found occupying the modest position of member of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     park department staff and it is from that vantage point that he surveyed the political
                    prospects on the eve of the 1896 campaign.
            The letters from Marcus A. Hanna, William McKinley and others to Colonel Holloway from 1895 until
                    1897, which are here presented, are believed to merit publication, not only because of the
                    historical importance of their authors, but also for the reason that they reveal the methods whereby
                    the managers of an important candidate for high public office went about promoting their aims. The
                    letters also make clear the route by which appointive offices in our government were filled. Some
                    presidential Warwicks have been so modest or careful or careless as to leave no written records
                    concerning how certain American presidents have been nominated. The general public and students of
                    history owe some gratitude to Colonel Holloway for preserving this correspondence, for whatever
                    reason he may have preserved the letters.
            The originals of letters here published are a part of the Morton-Holloway collection which was turned
                    over to the Library of 
                        Butler
                     University at 
                        Indianapolis
                     after the death of Colonel Holloway in 1911. Subsequently, the Collection was deposited
                    in the Indiana State Library where it may now be found. All of the letters that follow were written
                    to Colonel William R. Holloway.
            [The Letters]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              State of 
                                    Ohio
                                 
                              
                              Executive Chamber
                              
                                 
                                    Columbus
                                 
                              
                           
                                    11 November, 1893.
                                
                        My dear Mr. Holloway:2
                        
                        Thanks for your telegram sent on the night of the election. Mr. Foyle3 showed me your letter to him, and believe me I am very appreciative 
                              
                                 2 William McKinley of Canton. 
                                                Ohio
                                            , the writer of this letter. was elected governor of 
                                                Ohio
                                             in Nov., 1893, by a majority of more than 80,000 votes. He did
                                            not sign his name Wm. but regularly WMcKinley.
                              
                                 3 James Boyle was Governor McKinley's
                                            secretary and later served him in the same capacity at the White House,
                                            1897-1901. Mr. Boyle died in Canton, 
                                                Ohio
                                            , in June, 1939.
                           
                                     of the kindly sentiments expressed by you
                                    toward myself.
                        
                                    Sincerely yours,
                                    WMcKinley
                                
                         Hon. W. R. Holloway, Mayor's Office, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Ind. 
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              State of 
                                    Ohio
                                 
                              
                              Executive Department
                              Office of the Governor
                              Columbus
                           
                                    October 8, 1895.
                                
                        Mr. W. H. Holloway,4
                        
                        Department of Public Parks,
                        
                           
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Ind.
                        My dear sir:
                        The Governor was here a few hours Sunday and read with much interest your favor of
                                    the 3rd instant. He directs me to thank you very much for your courtesy.
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    Jas. Boyle.
                                    Private Secretary.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Among the devoted friends and admirers of William McKinley was the 
                        Cleveland
                     ironmaster, Marcus A. Hanna, who took upon himself the agreeable task of promoting the
                    political advancement of the 
                        Ohio
                     congressman defeated in 1892 because of the popular dislike of the McKinley Tariff Act
                    of 1890. Hanna was a firm believer in the virtues of high protection, especially for his own
                    business, and was apparently, the first important person to recognize the twinkling of
                    McKinley's star of destiny. After having made the latter governor of his state, Hanna
                    assumed the role of Warwick in order to advance his idol to the presidency. The next letter reveals
                    his understanding of the problems that lay ahead and shows how he proposed to proceed toward the
                    winning of the nomination for McKinley.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              M. A. Hanna & Co.
                              Coal, Iron Ore and Pig Iron.
                              
                                 
                                    Cleveland
                                 , O.
                           
                                    Feby. 4th, 1896.
                                
                        M. A. Hanna,
                        L. C. Hanna,
                        C. C. Bolton,
                        D. R. Hanna.
                        My Dear Sir:—
                        I am in receipt of yours of the 30th. ult. and note contents. The drift of things in
                                    the west is in our favor and I hope our friends in 
                              
                                 4 Col. Holloway was a member of the Park Board of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , under Mayor Denney until the end of 1895. He was evidently not
                                            well known to Mr. Boyle, judging by the error in writing the name (middle
                                            initial H instead of R).
                           
                                     Indiana will soon begin to get matters in such
                                    shape as to choose delegates who are friendly to McKinley. It is generally believed
                                    that Genl. Harrison5 is friendly to Allison,6 but that the people of Indiana are for McKinley. I shall depend upon you to
                                    keep me posted.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.7
                           
                                
                        PS Since dictating the above the Harrison letter8 is out
                                    and we should prepare at once to organize McKinleys friends Will you take a hand and
                                    also tell me to whom to write We want the best mad. in the State at the head of our
                                        organization.9 MAH 
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              William McKinley10
                              
                              Canton, O.
                           
                                    February 6th, 1896.
                                
                        Mr. Dear Mr. Holloway:—
                        I have your kind letter of February 4th, which I have read with pleasure. I am glad
                                    to know the attitude of Mr. Ramsdell.11 He is an able man and I
                                    have always been very fond of him personally. I shall be glad to have you keep me
                                    advised.
                        
                                    With best wishes,
                                    Yours sincerely,
                                    WMcKinley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Feby 6th, 1896.
                                
                        My Dear Sir:—
                        Your esteemed favor of the 4th inst. is just at hand and I thank you very much for
                                    it, in fact I was just about to write you. I appreciate highly the importance of our
                                    stirring up the editors to come out squarely for McKinley. Please keep this work up
                                    vigorously. I have endeavored to enter into communication with Capt. Gowdy12 and shall send a man to see him tomorrow. I wish you would
                                    advise 
                              
                                 5 General Benjamin Harrison. president from 1889-1893,
                                            was reported from time to time as favoring various candidates for the
                                            Republican presidential nomination, although he frequently denied any such
                                            preferences. 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             Journal of Aug. 4. Sept. 29. 1895, See also issues of the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             Sentinel from August, 1896, until February, 1896.
                              
                                 6 Senator William B. Allison of 
                                                Iowa
                                            , an avowed candidate for the nomination, had many friends in
                                            Indiana.
                              
                                 7 Hanna's signatures are all in bright green
                                            ink, still clear today. He seems to have anticipated a later political
                                            Warwick (James A. Farley) in the use of this brand of ink when signing
                                            political correspondence.
                              
                                 8 This postscript is in longhand, the letter being
                                            typewritten. On Feb. 9, 1896, former President Harrison advised the public
                                            that be was not a candidate for the nomination, thereby Intending to remove
                                            himself from the pre-convention race. 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             Sentinel, Feb. 9, 1896; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            Journal, Feb. 4, 1896.
                              
                                 9 On the reverse side of this letter, Holloway says
                                            that he sent, on Feb. 6, the names of H. G. McClain, Geo. F. McCullough, S.
                                            Wildman and C. S. Wilson. All of these men were active members of the
                                            Indiana Lincoln League, the Republican state organization.
                              
                                 10 McKinley was no longer governor, his term having
                                            expired at the end of 1896.
                              
                                 11 D. M. Ramsdell, a prominent Republican leader of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , was one of President Harrison's appointees.
                              
                                 12 John W. Gowdy of 
                                                Rushville
                                            , Indiana, was Chairman of the Republican State Central
                                            Committee of Indiana from 1891-1897, His reward for vigorous support of
                                            McKinley's candidacy was to be the U. S. Consul Generalship at
                                                    
                                    Paris, France
                                 , from 1897-1901. He was
                                            frequently called "Oom Jack" Gowdy in Hoosier political
                                            circles.
                           
                                     him meanwhile by wire or telephone to come our
                                    [out] squarely for McKinley at the first convenient opportunity, or at lease
                                    coöperate heartily with us. I shall write also Ramsdall [sic] immediately.
                        Cant you run up to 
                                        Chicago
                                     on the 12th. inst. on the occasion of the banquet of the Marquette Club
                                    and have a talk with us. It would attract comparatively little attention there and
                                    if I should come to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     or you here it would get into the newspapers and might not do us much
                                    good.
                        
                                    With sincere wishes, I am,
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    February 7th, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Colonel:
                        I have your letter of 5th February, with enclosure, which I have read with
                                    satisfaction. We saw the very significant expression made at your 
                                        Columbia
                                     Club, of which you speak. It is certainly gratifying to me. I return
                                    your enclosures of the 6th.
                        Are you going to be at 
                                        Chicago
                                    , at the Marquette Club banquet, next Wednesday? I hope you may come. I
                                    shall be glad to see you.
                        Roscoe Hawkins was an old school friend of mine. His father was my minister when I
                                    was a boy, and very dear to our whole family.
                        
                                    With sincerest regards,
                                    Yours truly,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Feb. 8, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Holloway
                        I am in rec't of yours of the 7th inst with enclosures. Have written to the
                                    Gentlemen you named. And I assure you I fully appreciate your efficient service.
                                    Will hope to see you in 
                                        Chicago
                                    . We expect to remain there during Thursday the 13. I sent Col Dick13 to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     last night and presume you will have seen him. I told him to find Gowdy
                                    first and then see as many friends as possible.
                        
                                    Truly yours,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    February 10th, 1896.
                                
                        My Dear Mr. Holloway:—
                        I have your interesting favor of February 7th. and was gratified with what you say of
                                    the 
                                        Columbia
                                     Club. I wish you would present to Mr. Harris14 and
                                    also to General Wallace15 my very great appreciation of their
                                    confidence and regard.
                        
                                    With best wishes,
                                    Yours sincerely,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  13 Colonel C. L. Dick of Ohio was Secretary of the Republican National
                        Committee.
               
                  14 Addison C. Harris, an attorney and Republican leader of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , was U. S. Minister to 
                            Austria
                         under McKinley and Roosevelt.
               
                  15 General Lew Wallace. veteran of the Mexican and Civil Wars, and
                        well-known author, had been U. S. Minister to Turkey under President Harrison.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    February 18th. 1896.
                                
                        My Dear Sir:—
                        Absence from home has prevented an earlier acknowledgement of your letter of the 29th
                                    ult. I am always glad to hear from you, only because of your friendly sentiments,
                                    but because of the intelligent way in which you set forth the situation in your
                                    State.
                        I herewith return with thanks, a number of letters forwarded by you,
                        
                                    Yours sincerely,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    February 20, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Holloway:
                        Yours of 18th is received with enclosure. I am very much gratified at the news from
                                    Indiana as conveyed by you and other friends.
                        
                                    Sincerely yours,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    February 21, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Colonel:
                        Your esteemed favor of February 18th has been received.
                        I thank you heartily for the intelligent and very efficient efforts you are making
                                    for Governor McKinley, and approve entirely of the plan outlined by your letter. If
                                    the sentiment of the republicans of Indiana is as you believe, four-fifths in favor
                                    of McKinley in each Congressional District and in the state at large, what possible
                                    objection could there be about adopting resolutions of
                                    "preference" or "instructions" for him.
                        Please let me hear from you as matters progress.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        (Personal)
                        
                                    February 22, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Colonel:
                        Your esteemed favor of February 20th has been received.
                        I agree with you that it does not make much difference what appears in the
                                    newspapers, because the people pay compartively little attention to the reliability
                                    of political gossip any way.
                        I think also that General Lew Wallace would be an excellent man for delegate at
                                    large. As you say, his name would be worth more than most any other that could be
                                    selected.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        (Personal)
                        
                                    February 24, 1896.
                                
                        Dear Sir:
                        Please send me by return mail, or as speedily as possible the official call for the
                                    Republican State Convention of Indiana Also 
                                    please send calls for your District Conventions, where same have been issued. If not
                                    ready, send them as soon as they are out. We are anxious to know who our friends are
                                    in the several districts. You will greatly oblige us by sending a list of the
                                    gentlemen who expect to make the fight for McKinley as delegates and alternates in
                                    the State at large, and also in the several Congressional Districts. Please give us
                                    this information in detail at once, or as rapidly as possible for we want it in
                                    order to prepare a correct roster for the National Convention.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                 , D. C.,
                           
                                    Feb. 27, 1896.
                                
                        Dear Sir:
                        I am delighted at the tone of your letter. It corresponds with my estimate of the
                                    situation in Indiana. The foolish story16 being circulated for
                                    the purpose of injuring McKinley will be duly appreciated by you, and men of your
                                    intelligence. I was present when all this took place, and I know that no man was so
                                    faithful to duty than was McKinley in that behalf… . I shall be glad if
                                    Indiana speaks promptly and clearly. It will be a splendid condition of things if we
                                    can stand together at 
                                        St. Louis
                                     side by side. Keep me advised and I will do the same by you. Everything
                                    looks favorable. I do not believe that it is within the power of man to beat our
                                    candidate. The favorite son business is reacting everywhere, and the conspiracy is
                                    being understood.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    C. H. Grosvenor.17
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    February 27, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        Dear Sir: Your esteemed favor of February 22nd has just been received. Of course, you
                                    may expect all sorts of stories about Major McKinley, and none more frequently than
                                    such silly concoctions as the one you send from the 
                                        Washington
                                     Post.18 I have no doubt that it is false, but, of
                                    course, I have no personal knowledge of the circumstances. Major McKinley is an
                                    exceedingly frank man. He disguises nothing, and will tell you the exact truth about
                                    the circumstances. Why don't you write him personally on the subject? He
                                    knows you very well, and I am sure will answer your letter.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  16 This refers to a newspaper report, widely circulated in those papers
                        hostile to McKinley's nomination, that he had slighted representatives of the American
                        Protective Association, a nativist and anti-foreign organization of the period, when be was on a
                        recent political tour in the western states.
               
                  17 C. H. Grosvenor, congressman from 
                     Athens, Ohio
                  , was an
                        early McKinley sup-porter and an active member of the Republican Congressional Campaign
                        Committee of 1896.
               
                  18 This is another echo of the A.P.A. incident mentioned in
                        Grosvenor's. letter of Feb. 27.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    February 27, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        Dear Colonel: Yours esteemed favor of yesterday is at hand.
                        You are doing capital work for the Major, and I can not tell you how much it is
                                    appreciated. The article "McKinley at 
                                        Minneapolis
                                    " is as convincing as it is readable.19 I
                                    shall give it to the 
                                        Cleveland
                                     Leader for re-production, and hope that. it will find as wide
                                    circulation as possible.
                        In accordance with your suggestion I shall also write Hon. Newton Harding 20 thanking him for his interest in the McKinley Club, and
                                    telling him to push things with the utmost vigor.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    February 27, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        Dear Sir:- Since writing you this morning I am in receipt of your favor of February
                                    26th with enclosures, which are highly appreciated. I shall write the gentlemen
                                    whose names you sent me at an early date, and will let you know if I hear anything
                                    from any of them as either peculiarly encouraging or the reverse.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    February 28th, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Sir:
                        Mr. Seeds21 makes a complete answer to the article of the 
                                        Washington
                                     Post copied in the Journal.22
                        
                        Thanking you for your kindly interest in this matter,
                        
                                    I am,
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    2-29-96.
                                
                        My Dear Sir: I am in receipt of yours of the 28th inst. with inclosure, which I
                                    herewith return. Will be glad to have a further report from Mr. Henry C. Hanna23 in regard to matters in his district and as to the attitude
                                    which Mr. MacDonald [sic] will take.24
                        
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  19 This is still another reference to the A.P.A. story.
               
                  20 Newton Harding was a Republican political leader of 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               
                  21 Russell M. Seeds was secretary of the Republican State Committee and
                        author of The History of the Republican Party in Indiana.
               
                  22
                        The Indiana State Journal was the chief Republican press organ published at 
                            Indianapolis
                        . It was owned and operated by John C. New and his son Harry S. New.
               
                  23 Henry C. Hanna, an attorney at 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , was a friend and political associate of Holloway in the formation of the McKinley
                        organization in Indiana.
               
                  24 R. T. McDonald was a prominent Republican of 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , friend of H. C. Hanna, and a leader in the anti-Harrison group of northern Indiana
                        which was believed to be inclined toward the support of Governor Levi P. Morton of 
                            New York
                         for the nomination.
            
            
            While the McKinley organization was earliest in the field, there were other groups seeking to promote
                    the interests of rival candidates for the nomination. The friends of Governor Levi P. Morton of 
                        New York
                    , made early but fruitless efforts to create sentiment in the western states for their
                    candidate. In Indiana, no group was more embarrassing and troublesome to Mark Hanna and his Hoosier
                    lieutenants than that headed by John C. New who espoused the cause of ex-President Harrison. Mr.
                    New, who with his son Harry S., was owner and editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, had been given much individual credit for the nomination of General
                    Benjamin Harrison at 
                        Chicago
                     in 1888, receiving as his reward the U. S. Consulship at Liverpool, 
                        England
                    , 1889-1893. Although Harrison had frequently expressed the desire to remain in
                    retirement from public life, New apparently hoped to have the nomination once more offered his
                    friend in the belief that it would not be refused. To further such action, he and his newspaper were
                    active in promoting a "stop McKinley" movement in Indiana.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                 , D. C.,
                           
                                    March 6, 1896.
                                
                        Dear Sir:-
                        I see by the papers that this crowd of desperate politicians is now engaged in
                                    organizing forces behind Mr. John C. New25 in Indiana to head
                                    off the election of McKinley delegates at your coming convention. This is part of
                                    the scheme represented by the Senatorial combine here in the interest of anybody to
                                    defeat McKinley. Now, it is not proper for me to suggest to the Republicans of
                                    Indiana what would be wise for them to do under any circumstances for you understand
                                    your own business better than I do, but the most important consideration as I look
                                    at it is to make Indiana practically solid for McKinley as it can be on the first
                                    ballot. I suppose there is not very much doubt that McKinley will have a vote
                                    largely in the lead of any other candidate on the first ballot and that seems to be
                                    the fear that our friends, the enemy, have. The cry in Indiana as it is going out
                                    here now by the Senatorial junta is that there should be no instructions with the
                                    hope of getting the Indiana Delegation into such shape that these gentlemen can
                                    traffic on it.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    C. H. Grosvenor.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  25 John C. New. editor and owner of the Indiana State
                        Journal, had long been a key figure in Indians Republican politics.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    3/7/1896.
                                
                        My dear Sir
                        I am in rec't of yours of the 6th inst and note what you say about the
                                    situation in your State.
                        The McKinley Stock is rising every day. We have carried 
                                        Florida
                                     solid. The State Conventions of Ark. Miss—have elected
                                    McKinley delegates—We have carried 3/4 of the delegates in 
                                        Georgia
                                     one district in Ala. and fully half in La. and 
                                        Texas
                                    . So we are Today in better shape than our
                                        estimates.26
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    March 9th, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Sir:
                        Yours of the 6th inst. with newspaper clipping has been received.
                        I have noticed with much interest what is going on in your City during the past few
                                    days. I hope and believe that you and my other friends in Indiana appreciate the
                                    fact that just now is the critical time.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Sir:
                        Your favor of March 7 is just received. I am glad the Morton27
                                    propaganda has come and gone, for I am sure that their presence among you will act
                                    as a stimulus to the active exertion of our friends. They seem to have but one idea
                                    in politics, and that is that money can do everything. In addition to the newspaper
                                    interviews with Mr. McDonald28 I have over his signature his
                                    oft-repeated pledge that he is for McKinley, so I can not think that he will prove
                                    false to us. On the contrary, I believe that he can be relied upon with entire
                                    confidence.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    March 14, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Col:
                        The newspaper clippings and your favor of March 12 received. I have read them all
                                    with interest. I am glad you are pleased with the 
                                        Ohio
                                     convention. It was thoroughly representative of the unanimous sentiment
                                    of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     republicans. This candidacy of Governor McKinley with the people of
                                    this state and of the country is no longer a matter of sentiment or hysterical
                                    enthusiasm. It is down deep in the hearts of the people and is genuine and earnest.
                                    It is gratifying to note the situation in your state. A solid Indiana delegation for
                                    M'Kinley means more than 30 votes in the convention. It has influence 
                              
                                 26 This letter is in the handwriting of Mr. Hanna, but
                                            the lower half is missing. including the signature, having been clipped with
                                            shears, evidently.
                              
                                 27 Levi P. Morton, Governor of 
                                                New York
                                             and Vice-President from 1889-1898, was an early candidate for
                                            the nomination for the presidency in 1896.
                              
                                 28 McDonald had been one of Morton's
                                            supporters but was won over to the Mc-Kinley organization by H. C. Hanna of 
                                                Fort Wayne
                                            .
                           
                                     the country over. I hope that in as many
                                    district conventions as possible and in your state convention resolutions
                                    instructing the delegates for M'Kinley may be passed, more especially for
                                    the good it will do in strengthening the M'Kinley sentiment throughout the
                                    country.
                        I beg to assure you of the appreciation of the Governor and his friends of your
                                    efforts in behalf of his candidacy in your state and shall thank you to keep me
                                    constantly advised of the situation there.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                 , D. C.
                           
                                    March 16, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Sir:-
                        The break in the Morton line in New York has had a wonderfully demoralizing effect
                                    upon our friends, the enemy… . The final struggle in Indiana is to come
                                    on the instructions. If you can instruct your delegates and especially if you can
                                    instruct your delegates-at-large, it will have more effect than double the number of
                                    votes under any other circumstances.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    C. H. Grosvenor.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    March 21st, 1896.
                                
                        My Dear Sir:
                        Now that the District Conventions are all over, I beg that you accept my most
                                    grateful acknowledgements of your active and untiring efforts.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              William McKinley
                              Canton, 
                                    Ohio
                                 .
                           
                                    March 23, 1896.
                                
                        Strictly
                        Confidential.
                        My dear Sir:-
                        I find running through the newspapers and through correspondence, a suggestion that
                                    after all there may be a movement for Harrison at 
                                        St. Louis
                                    . The intimation is thrown out that Mr. Harry New29
                                    and others on the delegation are in sympathy with the suggested movement. It would
                                    not surprise me, if from now on there are quiet but persistent efforts of the
                                    anti-McKinley element both inside your State and outside, to undermine
                                    McKinley's standing with the Indiana delegation. The danger in Indiana is
                                    that the McKinley men, thinking that the battle is won, will now retire and that the
                                    other fellows will be as busy as beavers.
                        
                           
                              29 Harry S. New was co-owner and co-editor of the 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        
                                        Journal and a close friend and admirer of General Harrison.
                                        The 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         Sentinel, on Oct. 2, 1895, discussed at length the alleged plans of
                                        the News to bring about Harrison's renomination in
                                        1896 and on subsequent occasions reported such plans to be in progress.
                        
                        
                        Of course you understand that I do not presume to indicate to you what you should do,
                                    and I concede that you know more about the Indiana situation than I do; but still I
                                    think it my duty to advise you of what I learn.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    Jas. Boyle.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    March 25th. 1896.
                                
                        My Dear Sir:
                        I am in receipt of yours of the 20th. inst. which confirms my information with regard
                                    to Mr. New. I have no feeling of doubt in regard to the unanimous support in your
                                    state and which came at a time when it meant something and you can be sure that we
                                    in 
                                        Ohio
                                     appreciate it. The withdrawal of Davis30 has given
                                    us 
                                        Minnesota
                                     and will give us the Dakotas—nothing can stop it now.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April 6th, 1896.
                                
                        My Dear Mr. Holloway:
                        Yours of the 4th inst. with enclosures received. My opinion is that the people who
                                    are trying to work the "Harrison scheme" in Indiana are doing so
                                    under false pretences—that is, they have no idea at all that Harrison
                                    stands a ghost of a chance of nomination, but they use Harrison's name and
                                    prestige purely for the purpose of rallying the anti—McKinley sentiment
                                    in Indiana and to scare off the McKinley people from instructing at the State
                                    Convention. It would be a great misfortune if your State Convention failed to
                                    endorse McKinley. It would be heralded over the country at large as proof that there
                                    was an "undertow" to the McKinley sentiment and that it was
                                    rapidly subsiding.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    Jas. Boyle.
                                
                        P.S. The situation "on the inside" grows better &
                                    better. It's "a cinch". J. B.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April 11, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        Dear Sir:- Your favor of April 9th is just at hand. I am very glad indeed to hear of
                                    your taking steps to counteract the injurious stories in circulation about
                                    ex-President Harrison. I am satisfied that he will be faithful to his own
                                    declarations, but of course I am in no position to ask him to do anything in the
                                    matter. Let me know what you develope. Glad to hear your lines are firm everywhere
                                    and do not believe myself that there will be any weakening at any point. The
                                    cheapest and best McKinley buttons are made by the Commercial Novelty Advertising
                                    Company, 2111 Vine Street, 
                              Cincinnati, Ohio
                           . They are sold to us at $9.00 per thousand,
                                    and I have 
                              
                                 30 Senator Cushman R. Davis of Minnesota was one of
                                            the many aspirants for the Republican nomination in 1896.
                           
                                     ordered one thousand sent you by wire. If you
                                    need more I think it would do the boys good to make a little contribution with which
                                    to buy them. It has been my experience that the more they are encouraged to rely
                                    upon others the less they will do for themselves.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April 13th, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        My dear Mr. Holloway:-
                        You have my thanks for your favors of April 8th and 9th and for the clippings
                                    enclosed. They have been read carefully and with much interest. I thank you very
                                    much for the interest you take in the candidacy of Gov. McKinley, in writing letters
                                    to the 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     Gazette, Tribune, Inter—Ocean and other papers. It will do
                                    great good.
                        The Indiana State Convention should by all means instruct its delegates at large to
                                    support and vote for Gov. McKinley, or a great deal of the good influence of the
                                    District Conventions instructing their delegates will be lost, which would otherwise
                                    be greatly strengthened if the State Convention instructs for McKinley. This is very
                                    important.
                        Let me hear from you again whenever you have information of importance which you
                                    think I should know. Keep me posted on the situation in your State, as you view it.
                                    Again thanking you, I remain,
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Republicans who were opposed to McKinley's nomination continued to harp on the 
                        Ohio
                     candidate's alleged friendliness to Catholics and foreign—born
                    persons against whom the American Protective Association was agitating and sought to magnify such an
                    attitude into a disqualification for the high position of President. Indiana newspapers hostile to
                    McKinley, as was the leading Republican organ, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, appeared to get great satisfaction out of repeating reports of A. P. A.
                    hostility towards the 
                        Ohio
                     candidate. The most frequent criticism was the old charge that he was straddling the
                    religious issue. There was a real basis for this, since McKinley, like most political leaders, had
                    no desire to alienate needlessly any important element of the electorate, and therefore refrained
                    from any public statement on the subject under consideration. To silence such criticism, the
                    McKinley managers emphasized the strong Protestant affiliations of their candidate and his closest
                    associates. After a long discussion of the charges,  Secretary
                    Boyle concluded with some information for Holloway's use which is contained in the next
                    letter.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Canton, 
                                    Ohio
                                 ,
                           
                                    April 13, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Sir:
                        It is proper that you should know, under the circumstances, that Major McKinley is a
                                    life-long member of the Methodist Episcopal Church; that Mr. Hanna and myself are
                                    life-long members of the Protestant Episcopal Church… . I would not be
                                    surprised if the opposition which you find developing to Major McKinley in Indiana
                                    owes its origin to some extent to the circulation of the lies above referred to.
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    James Boyle,
                                    Private Secretary.
                                
                        P. S. I am more than ever confident that Major McKinley's friends in
                                    Indiana owe it to themselves now to force instruction. The Journal's "cloven-hoof" ought to be discernable
                                    by all the true friends of Major McKinley in your State.31
                                J.B.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April 16, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        Dear Sir:- In your favor to me of April 11th you spoke some-thing about the idea of
                                    making a contract with the "News" for 2 columns space each day,
                                    and devote it to Major McKinley, and especially the idea of Indiana instructing in
                                    his behalf.32 I wish you would pursue this a little farther and
                                    see what such an arrangement would cost. Talk to Capt. Gowdy about it and let me
                                    know what is his decision in the matter. We must not fail to secure the adoption of
                                    McKinley resolutions. I consider it of great importance. Upon the slight prop of
                                    opposition to McKinley in Indiana rests all that is left of the Combine against him.
                                    It ought to be ditched forever, and we must spare no efforts in that direction.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                 , D. C.
                           
                                    April 23, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Sir:
                        Your letters are received. Doubtless the matter33 to which you
                                        
                              
                                 31 The 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            Journal was still sniping at the McKinley candidacy, while
                                            the News seemed as yet unwilling to swallow the chagrin
                                            due to General Harrison'. elimination from the race.
                              
                                 32 The 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            News independent evening paper. which became a supporter
                                            of the Republican ticket from this time until the electron, carried long
                                            articles supporting McKinley's candidacy.
                              
                                 33 This doubtless refers to the A.P.A. matter.
                           
                                     refer will receive attention from Mr. Hanna. It
                                    is no time now for Indiana Republicans to halt or hesitate. General Harrison will
                                    not disgrace himself by being a party to the corrupt and scoundrelly tactics of the
                                    men who defeated his election in 1892. We are sweeping the country. It is a poor
                                    time for any man in your State to suggest that Indiana should get into the rear rank
                                    and become a second choice delegation.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    C. H. Grosvenor.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April 24th, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        My Dear Sir:-
                        This in acknowledgement of your several kind letters of recent date. Our
                                    correspondence is simply overwhelming us, and you will, I know, pardon any apparent
                                    neglect. Your letters and enclosed newspaper clippings have all been read with keen
                                    interest, and I beg to thank you sincerely for your pains. Be assured your interest
                                    in Gov. McKinley's candidacy is thoroughly appreciated. Write me as often
                                    as you have information which you think I should know, and keep me posted.
                        Do not let the State Convention fail to instruct for McKinley. Such failure would be
                                    misconstrued by the opposition, into a defeat for us, while favorable resolutions
                                    would come opportunely and be of great benefits34 We do not ask
                                    it for the purpose of insuring the loyalty of McKinley men, but for the effect the
                                    adoption of such resolutions would have upon the general result. I need not explain
                                    to you the importance of this. It is probably thoroughly apparent to yourself.
                        I cannot believe that Gen. Harrison will be a candidate under any circumstances. I am
                                    convinced that his letter of declination was genuinely sincere and positive.
                        Our Indiana friends, among whom we count you one and very close to us, have been
                                    making a splendid fight for Gov. McKinley. They are entitled [sic]
                                    to have, and do have, our warmest consideration. With cordial regards, I remain,
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April 25th, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        My Dear Sir:- I am in receipt of your favor of the 22nd inst., and note what you say
                                    about the Journal and News. With regard to the course of the Commercial-Gazette, we
                                    understand from the inside what is the matter, but do not care to discuss it. Mr.
                                    Hinkle is not a friend, and we cannot expect anything better from his newspaper. I
                                    hope you will be able to accomplish what you say with Mr. Harrison. The methods
                                    employed by the Combine must certainly be very 
                              
                                 34 Most of the Indiana congressional district
                                            conventions, held from April 7 until May 1. either Instructed delegates to
                                            the state convention to endorse McKinley or ex-pressed a preference for him
                                            over other candidates.
                           
                                     obnoxious to him, and I cannot appreciate how
                                    his friends in Indiana can permit his name to be associated with such matters before
                                    the public. You must win at your state convention, if possible, and if necessary to
                                    print circulars, have it done. I will gladly bear the expense. Does the A. P. A.
                                    matter cut any figure in Indiana? If so we can furnish plenty of testimony
                                    contradicting these lies which have been told against McKinley.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                 , D. C.
                           
                                    April 25, 1896.
                                
                        Dear Sir:
                        Your letter of April 22nd is also received and I can only say that I consider it of
                                    momentus [sic] importance that you carry the instructions in
                                    Indiana. If President Harrison allows himself to be made a tool of by John C. New he
                                    will go down to posterity with less of popular favor than he has now.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    C. H. Grosvenor.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Canton, 
                                    Ohio
                                 
                              
                           
                                    April 25th, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Sir:
                        I herewith return the clippings you enclosed in a letter I received this morning.
                        We are keeping a close and somewhat anxious eye upon Indiana. Speaking from this
                                    distance I would say that there is a subsidence of the Harrison talk over the
                                    country. There is a concencus [sic] of opinion that Harrison meant
                                    exactly what he said. Any way, the Harrison talk is altogether futile, if not
                                    malicious. No matter what Indiana does, McKinley will be nominated and that on the
                                    first ballot. I have never wavered from that opinion. Six weeks ago I made an
                                    estimate which showed McKinley's nomination on the first ballot. The
                                    situation has steadily improved since then. There are now more than enough votes in
                                    sight to nominate McKinley on the first ballot even if we do not get a single vote
                                    from Indiana. But the expressions we get from your State, quite apart from what you
                                    and Mr. Gowdy write, are to the effect that, first, your State Convention will
                                    instruct for McKinley and secondly even if it does not, that McKinley will get
                                    probably the solid vote from Indiana on the first ballot.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    Jas. Boyle
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April 30th, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        My dear Colonel:-
                        Your kind favor of the 29th inst., with enclosed clippings from the News and Journal,
                                    received. All have been read with interest, and your comments thereon have been
                                    carefully noted. We are hoping 
                                    
                                        Illinois
                                     will instruct today. I can understand how it will help you. But,
                                    whether they do or not, Indiana must not fail us in this
                                    particular.
                        I think your arrangement for a Convention edition of the La-
                                        Fayette
                                     Courier is a good stroke. Delegate Weik35 of 
                                        Greencastle
                                    , I have no doubt is our loyal friend. His pleasant visit here convinced
                                    me of that fact. Let all McKinley men be enlisted under one banner, and fight the
                                    good fight to a finish. Keep me constantly posted on the situation.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    May 5th, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        My Dear Colonel:-
                        I am in receipt of your esteemed favors of May 2nd, 3rd and 4th, enclosing extracts
                                    from the 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     News and Journal, and have read all with care and interest. I am very
                                    much pleased with the gallant fight you are making, and believe that you will
                                    succeed. Be assured that your energetic work is appreciated, greatly. You will, I
                                    know, excuse a brief reply, but we are nearly overwhelmed with correspondence.
                                    Kindly write me whenever you have any important information which I should know.
                                    Again thanking you, I remain,
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                        P. S. Don't let instructions fail. Wire me result as soon as possible.
                                    M. A. H.
                     
                  
               
                
            The Indiana Republican state convention met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on May 8, 1896, and adopted instructions for its delegates to the national convention
                    at 
                        St. Louis
                     binding them to vote for McKinley's nomination. The Harrison sup-porters made
                    ineffectual efforts to block this action, but they did not have even the backing of General
                    Harrison, since he declined to address the convention on account of his unwillingness to stir up
                    factional strife. Thus, Messrs. Gowdy and Holloway carried their plans through to victory and
                    fulfilled their promises to Hanna and McKinley. The latter were duly appreciative of the service.
            The Harrison faction, led by Colonel New and other former Hoosier office-holders under the Harrison
                    administration, still did not give up all hope. They next turned on State Chairman John W. Gowdy and
                    tried to oust him. Throughout the month of May, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal be—labored him for his high—handed action in pushing
                    McKinley's candidacy down the throats of Hoosiers loyal to Harrison 
                  
                     35 Jesse W. Weik of 
                                Greencastle
                            , later a biographer of Abraham Lincoln, was a delegate to the Republican
                            National Convention in 1896.
               
                     son. At the showdown, on May 27, before the Republican state
                    central committee, however, Gowdy was able to save himself from the vengeance of the
                        Harrisonites.36
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Canton, 
                                    Ohio
                                 .
                           
                                    May 8th, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Colonel Holloway:
                        You and my other good friends have had a long fight and a hard fight, and I am sure
                                    you must feel intensely gratified that it is all over now. Believe me I appreciate
                                    your very effective service.
                        I should be pleased to see you here at any time it might be convenient for you to
                                    call,
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    May 11th, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        My Dear Colonel:-
                        You have my thanks for your kind letters of recent date. I congratulate you upon the
                                    great victory Gov. McKinley's friends won in your State Convention. You did
                                    splendid work, and I assure you it is thoroughly appreciated. We are proud of our
                                    Indiana friends. Kindly write me whenever you have information which I should know,
                                    and keep me advised on the situation. Be assured your loyalty to Gov. McKinley is
                                    greatly appreciated. Again thanking you, and with cordial regards, I remain,
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Wash. D. C.
                           
                                    May 11, 1896
                                
                        My dear Sir:-
                        I thank you for your telegram which sent me to bed at a late hour very happy, and
                                    also for your letters since. I want to say to you that there has been not more than
                                    one, if any, harder fight in the 
                                        United States
                                     than you encountered in Indiana. Indeed, in some respects it was worse
                                    than 
                                        Illinois
                                     because it was the last desperate ditch of the opposition. Right well
                                    you handled your forces and grandly you rode to victory. We are all happy.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    C. H. Grosvenor.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    May 12, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Sir:
                        I have yours of the 11th inst. and have carefully noted what you say. Believe me,
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  36
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Sentinel, May 27. 28; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, May 28. 29. 1898.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    June 3, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        My dear Colonel:-
                        I am in receipt of your esteemed letter of recent date, with clippings from the
                                    Journal, for which accept my thanks. I am glad to know that the outlook in your
                                    State is so favorable. Trusting to see you in 
                                        St. Louis
                                    ,37 I remain,
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    June 5, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        My dear Colonel:-
                        I am in receipt of your favors of the 27th and 28th and note all you say. I trust the
                                    matter in your State will come out all right in the end. Thanking you for the
                                    information and with cordial regards, I remain,
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Athens, Ohio
                                 ,
                           
                                    June 24th, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Sir:-
                        I have your letter of June 20th. I find that since your writing, a letter from
                                    President Harrison38 has made its appearance and I am very glad
                                    that he had the gracefulness to do what he did do.
                        Of course, we have expected that Brother New would feel disgruntled. The prospects
                                    for cakes and ale are not so good as they would have been under other conditions.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    C. H. Grosvenor.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The Republican national convention, meeting in 
                        St. Louis
                        Missouri
                    , on June 18, 1896, nominated William McKinley, of 
                        Ohio
                    , for President on the first ballot, with a vote of 6611/2 to 841/2 for Thomas B. Reed,
                    of 
                        Maine
                    , his nearest competitor.39 Every precaution was taken by the
                    Indiana managers, as well as by Hanna, to prevent any demonstration in favor of former President
                    Harrison; indeed, not even so much as respectable notice was taken by any of the speakers, of the
                    fact that Harrison, until that occasion, was the titular leader of the party.40
                    The Journal and the Harrisonites immediately rallied to the new leader, without
                    further ado.
            
               
                  37 The Republican National Convention met at 
                            St. Louis
                        , Mo., June 16. 18. 1896.
               
                  38 No mention of such a letter appears in the 
                            Indianapolis
                         press at this period.
               
                  39 Paul L. Haworth, The 
                                United States
                             in Our Own Times (
                            New York
                        , 1985), 225.
               
                  40
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal. June 19, 1896.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    June 29, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Mr. Holloway:
                        Your kind congratulatory letter is hereby acknowledged with gratitude. I have taken
                                    careful note of what you say in your letter.
                        
                                    Yours sincerely,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 3rd, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        My dear Sir:
                        Your favor of the 20th ult., came duly to hand, and like all the others, has waited
                                    an opportune time for me to reply. I have been simply snowed under since my return
                                    from 
                                        St. Louis
                                    .
                        I hope the matters will be straightened out in your State, so there will be no
                                    factional differences. Every good Republican now is interested in the result, and I
                                    am sure if proper concessions from both sides, all friction may be avoided.
                        
                                    Truly yours,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 7th, 1896.
                                
                        My Dear Sir:
                        I note with care, what you say in yours of the 2nd inst., and thank you very much for
                                    your valuable suggestions, of a personal nature.
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 14th, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Mr. Holloway:
                        I had already noticed the position taken by Mr. Bynum.41 I thank
                                    you for your courtesy.
                        If you see Chairman Gowdy, please convey to him my sympathy.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 25, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Mr. Holloway:
                        I was very glad indeed to receive the information contained in your esteemed favor of
                                    the 17th inst. Such letters are very encouraging.
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jul 29 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        My Dear Colonel:-
                        You have my thanks for your valued letter of recent date, and 
                              
                                 41 W. D. Bynum of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Democratic ex—congressman from the seventh
                                            district, publicly announced his intention on July 12 to bolt the Bryan
                                            ticket, and to organize a "gold" Democratic party. 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            Journal, July 12, 1896.
                           
                                     the encouraging information which it contains.
                                    I am glad to know that you are hard at work, and have no doubt but that Indiana will
                                    do her duty when election day comes around, and return a large majority for the
                                    Republican ticket. Will depend upon you to keep me posted on the situation. With
                                    cordial regards, I remain,
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jul 29, 1896.
                                
                        (Personal)
                        Dear Colonel:-
                        Your recent valued favor suggesting that Indiana should be represented on the
                                    Executive Committee received, and carefully considered. I trust that the membership
                                    of the Committee42 as finally decided upon, not only as to
                                    Indiana, but as a whole, meets with your entire approval. I thank you for the
                                    interest you take in the matter and know that you will give the Committee your
                                    hearty support in the coming campaign. Kindly keep me advised with reference to the
                                    situation. With cordial regards, I remain,
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Aug. 5th, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Mr. Holloway:
                        The encouraging information in yours of the 30th ult. is much appreciated by me. I
                                    believe that to a great extent the situation in Indiana is the same as that existing
                                    in all the central States.
                        I am rejoiced to hear that Chairman Gowdy is improving.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    WMcKinley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Republican National Committee
                        
                           
                                        New York
                                     Headquarters
                        The Executive Committee — Metropolitan Life Building.
                        M. A. Hanna, 
                                        Ohio
                                    , Chairman
                        W. T. Durbin, Indiana,
                        Etc.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New York
                                 ,
                           
                                    Aug. 7, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Mr. Holloway:-
                        I am glad to hear that your organization is in such good shape. Good hard work at
                                    this time is what is needed. In my opinion the schoolhouse campaign43 is a winner. I sincerely hope that your prediction in regard to carrying
                                    Indiana will come true. The educational campaign will do the work.
                        
                           
                              42 W. T. Durbin, of Anderson, Governor of Indiana.
                                        1901-1905, was named as the Indiana representative on the Republican National
                                        Executive Committee.
                           
                              43 During the political contest of 1898, the Republicans
                                        used the school-houses widely for political meetings where they conducted an
                                        "educational campaign" to enlighten the electorate on the
                                        evils of free silver and low tariffs and the virtues of the gold standard and
                                        high protection.
                        
                        
                        Thanking you for your loyal support in the interest of McKinley and Hobart, and with
                                    best wishes to you, I am,
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    M. A. Hanna.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            On July 10, 1896, the Democratic National Convention at 
                        Chicago
                     named William J. Bryan, of 
                        Nebraska
                    , as its standard-bearer on a "free-silver" platform and, immediately
                    thereafter, a considerable exodus of "gold" Democrats took place. The columns of
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal and other Republican papers were filled with letters of bolters setting
                    forth their reasons for deserting Democracy in favor of McKinley and "sound"
                        money.44 Many prominent Democrats, especially in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , refused to swallow the action of the 
                        Chicago
                     Convention and proceeded either to join the Republicans or to join in forming the
                    National or "Gold" Democratic Party. At their convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on September 3, they nominated John M. Palmer of 
                        Illinois
                     as their leader.45 The defection of this element was more serious
                    than that of the "silver" Republicans in Indiana.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              House of Representatives
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                 , D. C.
                              
                                 
                                    Athens, Ohio
                                 ,
                           
                                    Aug. 19, 1896.
                                
                        Dear Sir:
                        Your favor of August 4th is received. I am sorry to hear that poor old Joe46 has jumped the fence again. He was always unreliable and we
                                    could never trust him. I am, however, of the opinion that the nomination of a second
                                    Democratic ticket would be of the greatest benefit to us. I have just returned from
                                    a trip to Europe and met a good many old time Democrats, travelling, etc. I did not
                                    find but one man, and that was Senator Daniel of 
                                        Virginia
                                    , who was going to vote for Bryan. They all said that a new ticket would
                                    give them a chance to go on the stump and fight Bryan, and one of them said to me
                                    that if there was a second ticket he would go on the stump and fight Bryan on the
                                    straight ticket and "when voting time comes, I will vote to kill".
                                    I would be glad to hear from you and what you think of the situation in Indiana. The
                                    two papers in 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     are at such divergence that I am unable to learn what the real facts
                                    are.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    C. H. Grosvenor.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  44
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, July 12, 24, Aug. 7, 1896.
               
                  45
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Sept. 4, 1896.
               
                  46 Unidentified but probably a "Silver Republican" who
                        bolted the McKinley ticket in favor of the Democratic-Populist ticket.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Republican National Committee
                        
                           
                                        New York
                                     Headquarters
                        The Executive Committee Metropolitan Life Building.
                        M. A. Hanna, 
                                        Ohio
                                    , Chairman
                        Wm. M. Osborne, Mass., Secretary.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New York
                                 ,
                           
                                    Sept. 2nd, 1896.
                                
                        Dear Sir:
                        Your letter of the 28th ulto. is before me. I note with pleasure all you say and
                                    appreciate fully all your needs. Your claim for assistance should be presented to
                                    the 
                                        Chicago
                                     headquarters. Mr. Durbin, as you know, is one of the Executive
                                    Committee and located in 
                                        Chicago
                                    . I have no doubt he can get what assistance is absolutely necessary.47 Of course this is a great country to cover and there are a
                                    great many states to be contested. We have got to spread our sinews out carefully
                                    and husband our strength to the best advantage. As reports show you are doing a
                                    great work, I have no doubt your predictions are well founded. I will be glad to
                                    hear from you at any time.
                        
                                    Sincerely,
                                    W. M. Osborne, Secretary.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The election of November 3, 1896, in Indiana resulted in a decisive victory for the Republican
                    candidates, both national and local. Hanna's "educational" campaign by
                    way of Indiana school-houses helped to swell the plurality for McKinley's election in this
                    state to 18,850, the largest any presidential candidate of either party had received since the
                    victory of Grant in 1872.48
            
            Now that the heat of battle was past, the victorious veterans turned their attention to the
                    distribution of the "cakes and ale." Colonel Holloway had mounted the McKinley
                    bandwagon among the earliest and had done yeoman service for the cause. It was but natural that he
                    should hunger for the spoils of political war. Apparently, he had set his heart on a lucrative post
                    in the consular service, that traditional "asylum for broken-down lawyers and political
                    hacks." To achieve this goal, it was necessary that he should marshal an impressive array
                    of sponsors. Hence, these last letters.
            
               
                  47 Mark Hanna may have used copious amounts of money during the campaign,
                        as many authorities assert. but he employed also a keen businessman's shrewdness in
                        determining where its application was most needed and would produce the best results.
               
                  48
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Nov. 8, 1896; of., 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Nov. 7. 1896.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Grosvenor, Jones and Worstell,
                        Attorneys at Law.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Athens, Ohio
                                 ,
                           
                                    November 19, 1896.
                                
                        My dear Sir:
                        I have your letter of the 17th instant. I have not the slightest idea of what will be
                                    done in the matter of patronage. I know this, however, that under all circumstances
                                    and at all times I shall insist on your recognition as one of the original McKinley
                                    men of Indiana, and if you should ask for a place at any of the towns named, except
                                    perhaps Liverpool, I should take great pleasure in pushing your claims.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    C. H. Grosvenor.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Shannondale, Ind.
                           
                                    Dec. 3rd, 1896.
                                
                        James A. Mount
                        Willowdale Farm.
                        My dear Sir:
                        I am much gratified to know you so highly appreciate the appointment of Chas. E.
                                        Wilson49 as my private Secretary. I sincerely thank you for
                                    the letter you wrote Gov. McKinley commending my nomination. I trust subsequent
                                    events have not been disappointing.
                        My veneration for Gov. Morton was so profound, that I must ever remember with
                                    kindness his widow and family.
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    J. A. Mount 50
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Treasury of the State of Indiana.
                        F. J. Scholz, Treasurer
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Ind.,
                           
                                    July 16, 1897.
                                
                        Dear Sir:-
                        Yours of the 14th., inst., to hand, upon receipt of which I immediately wrote Sen. C.
                                    W. Fairbanks51 in your behalf, hoping that you will be
                                    successful in securing an appointment.
                        
                                    I am,
                                    Very respectfully yours,
                                    F. J. Scholz.52
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Sometime early in 1897, after the inauguration of President McKinley, the spoils of war were
                    apportioned. Addison C. Harris, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , received the office of U. S. Minister to 
                        Austria
                    -
                        Hungary
                     and Captain John W. Gowdy went 
                  
                     49 This was probably Chas. S. Wilson, of 
                                Lebanon
                            , a newspaper editor and active leader of the Republican party through the
                            eighteen eighties and nineties.
                  
                     50 James A. Mount of 
                                Montgomery
                             County was the successful Republican candidate for Governor of Indiana in 1896.
                            Holloway was evidently still trading on the political influence of his deceased
                            brother-in-law. Oliver P. Morton, war Governor and later Senator from Indiana
                  
                     51 Charles 
                                Warren
                             Fairbanks of Indianapolis was elected U. S. Senator by the Indiana State
                            Legislature in Jan., 1897. He had been a strong supporter of McKinley through his paper, the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, though the public did not then know who owned the News.
                  
                     52 F. J. Scholl was elected State Treasurer in Nov. 1896.
               
                     as U. S. Consul General to 
                  Paris, France
               , the latter post being
                    one of the most lucrative in the entire consular service. Our friend, Colonel Holloway, drew as his
                    prize the position of U. S. Consul General at St. Petersburg, Russia. This post he retained until
                    1904, when, for the sake of his health, he asked and received a transfer to the consulate at
                            
                  Halifax, Nova
                            Scotia
               . The change in climate did not bring the de-sired improvement in
                    health, so, in 1907, Colonel Holloway retired and returned to make his home in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He died there in 1911, at the age of seventy-five.
            It may be of public interest to note that the consular service has not provided political plums for
                    deserving party henchmen since 1907, for, in that year, President Theodore Roosevelt placed consular
                    offices under civil service regulations. Hungry would-be officeholders have had to look to other
                    fields for political rewards in recent years.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            A History of 
                            Chicago
                        , II. By Bessie Louise Pierce. Alfred A. Knopf, 
                        New York
                    , 1940. Pp. 478, $5.00.
            Professor Pierce, in this second volume of her proposed four-volume biography of 
                        Chicago
                    , continues to maintain the high standard of scholarship and literary skill which she
                    set for herself in her first book, The Beginning of a City, which covered the
                    period from 1673 to 1848. The sub-title of the second volume is "From Town to City,
                    1848-1871."
            For those historians whose interest centers upon urban development of the nineteenth century, this
                    narrative, be-ginning in 1848, when the first railroad came to 
                        Chicago
                    , and continuing until 1871, when the city was destroyed by fire, will be of great
                    significance. The casual researcher will be satisfied by the almost encyclopaedic data found on
                    every page, and the general reader will be rewarded with most adequate generalizations. It seems
                    certain that this study will remain for years as the only key to the history of the "Queen
                    of the Lake."
            The author describes 
                        Chicago
                     with its eastern and western transportation connections as the logical community
                    through which thousands of emigrants passed en route to the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West. European immigrants, as well as native Americans, remained in the city to form
                    the structure of society and to boast that "The world comes to 
                        Chicago
                    ." The coming of the railroad, the short life of the plank road, and the
                    construction of canals stimulated both passenger and freight movement until Chicago was the cynosure
                    of shippers' eyes from both the South and the West. Rail-roads and grain were transforming
                    frontier 
                        Chicago
                     into an urban city with a metropolitan economy which was to express itself in intricate
                    banking and financial institutions. Laborers, both native and foreign, asserted themselves as early
                    as the 'fifties when they organized for "self-protection and for charitable
                    purposes generally."
            
               
                        Chicago
                    's development from town to city may be understood, says Professor Pierce, if
                    the historian keeps in mind the expanse of the city physically, the development of an urban culture,
                    and the rapid increase of wealth. It was these forces which gave rise to municipal corruption and
                    confusion, made necessary police and fire protection, stimulated  vice and gambling, produced a haphazard architecture, created belief in free education, and
                    moulded the refinements and ways of an urban world in a transitional period. Crude theatricals, such
                    as "Our Eastern Cousin in 
                        Chicago
                    ," could be billed as easily as "Othello," and crime
                    statistics could mount in spite of church-going. Even the strain of the Civil War did not swerve 
                        Chicago
                     from becoming the entrepot of the Middle West. In this period of
                    "passion and prejudice" the city, overwhelmed with militaristic fervor,
                    volunteered liberally, but did not forget to quarrel over Lincoln's policies and the state
                    of the Union. And the city continued to grow —in population, in trade, and in wealth. By
                    1871, "America possessed no more interesting city than 
                        Chicago
                    ." It was primitive and modern, rural and urban, tawny and cultured. One beheld
                    there vestiges of the pioneer community, so adequately described in the first volume of this series,
                    and one also saw the beginnings of a metropolitan American community. Nothing seemed inconsistent to
                    this city surging forward to meet a flaming destiny in 1871.
            The 
                        Chicago
                     Fire, which began on October 8, 1871, was, in effect, to burn away the primitive and to
                    make room for modernity. How this fire started is still— unknown, al-though several
                    explanations have been offered. It is but fair to mention, however, that Mrs.
                    O'Leary's cow is completely exonerated. That is, the evidence that the cow kicked
                    over the lamp is no stronger than that against several other alleged culprits, including 
                        Providence
                    , Communists, and a group of celebrating Irishmen.
            The volume is attractively printed, is illustrated with contemporary maps and photographs, and
                    contains fifteen appendices. Certainly, no historian of urban growth in the 
                        United States
                     can ignore this study which bids fair to be a model.
         
         
            
               Edward Livingston: Jeffersonian Republican and Jacksonian Democrat. By William
                    B. Hatcher, 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, University, 
                        Louisiana
                    , 1940. Pp. xvi, 518, illustrated, $3.50.
            This attractive volume, tie second of the Southern Biography Series to be published, deals with
                    Edward Livingston of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                    . A brother of Chancellor Robert R. Livingston, Edward first came to the front in 
                    
                        New York
                     politics in the most active period of Aaron Burr, when the evolving Republican Party
                    was weakened by the clashes between the Clintons and the Livingstons. Elected to the national House
                    in 1795, he remained a member until 1802. He first won prominence on the national stage, when he
                    stood with Albert Gallatin in the famous House fight against Jay's Treaty. Later, the two
                    leaders fought together against the Alien and Sedition Acts. In 1801, he was regarded as one of the
                    pivotal men during the desperate at-tempt of Federalists to elect Burr to the presidency. How-ever,
                    he voted for Jefferson on every ballot. In 1802, he was appointed by Jefferson to the office of 
                        United States
                     Attorney for the District of 
                        New York
                    . One of the duties of this office was the collection of federal taxes. It was one of
                    the misfortunes of Livingston's life that he entrusted this duty to a subordinate whom he
                    did not properly supervise. There was a serious defalcation, and Livingston lost his office. In
                    1804, he went to 
                        Louisiana
                    . In time, he rose to eminence as a lawyer there. In 1823, he became again a member of
                    the national House after an absence of nearly a quarter of a century. In 1829, he was elected to the
                    Senate. In 1831, he became Secretary of State in Jackson's Cabinet, and, in 1833, was
                    appointed minister to 
                        France
                    .
            Such a record of facts in relation to any able leader would make him a worthy subject for a
                    biography. It has been the aim of Dr. Hatcher to deal impartially with Edward Livingston in each
                    period of his career. He has shown with what energy Livingston played his part in the national House
                    from 1795 to 1802. In his later and greater period on the national stage, the author has told simply
                    and well the story of the achievements of Livington. Secretary of State in Jackson's
                    Cabinet during the nullification crisis of 1832-1833, Livingston rendered great service to the
                    President and made a name for himself as one of the great interpreters of the Constitution. It was
                    not only with these periods of political success as a national leader that Dr. Hatcher had to deal,
                    but with the uncertain years from 1802 to 1823. This obscure period in the life of Livingston was
                    very important, and it required more research and more skill to tell the story of those years than
                    was necessary to present the better known portions of his career.
            
            Dr. Hatcher has handled the misfortune that befell Livingston in the matter of the defalcation in 
                        New York
                     with great fairness. He has done even better with the 
                        Louisiana
                     years during which the transplanted New Yorker built himself up to a second and greater
                    period of success. This is partly because a greater mass of materials was at hand as a basis for the
                    study. Anyone who reads the six chapters relating to the years of upward climbing in 
                        Louisiana
                     against great difficulties will learn much that is new. The new and prolonged
                    controversy between Livingston and Jefferson is the most difficult phase of Livingston's
                    life to handle. Whether Dr. Hatcher has arrived at correct conclusions in regard to all of the
                    various points involved in this clash, the reviewer is unable to say. At any rate, the author has
                    made an honest attempt to unravel the tangle. Livingston's course in relation to the
                    Batture land was cerainly open to question, but Jefferson possibly pushed him too relentlessly in
                    the matter.
            In conclusion, it must be said that Dr. Hatcher has written a high-class biography which is supplied
                    with a good index, and a large and helpful bibliography. The story is well organized and
                    Livingston's life is well interpreted. The Southern Biography Series has been well started
                    with this volume and that dealing with Felix Grundy which preceded it. Other
                    volumes will be awaited with interest.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
         
         
            
               Robert Dale Owen. By Richard William Leopold. 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1940. Pp. xiv, 470, illustrated, $4.50.
            In this welcome volume, Dr. Leopold has made a very real contribution. After making a long and
                    critical study, he concludes that Robert Dale Owen was "one of the most versatile figures
                    in an age of versatility." a man "who performed ably in many fields but achieved
                    greatness in none." Since Owen has fallen into "unwarranted obscurity,"
                    it has seemed to the author to be a worth while task to recover the man by writing a
                    "critical full length biography" based on the wide variety of materials available.
                    In the course of his researches, the author discovered that Owen led three lives in three different
                    periods, in each period responding to a different environment, and that, between these three periods
                    of  Owen's life, there was "only a tenuous
                    connection." In addition to these fundamental keys to his subject's career, the
                    author discovered that Owen, more than once, "came near to achieving lasting
                    renown." It seems necessary to quote one longer passage from Dr. Leopold's
                    "Preface": 
                        A brilliant career in radical journalism was prevented only by his [Owen's] return
                            in 1833 to the Indiana backwoods. If the influence of Moral Physiology
                            could be accurately determined, he might be known as a leading pioneer writer on
                            sociological problems. His name might have been enshrined in the annals of the Smithsonian
                            Institution if he had not, apparently, disagreed with its first Secretary. His reputation as
                            an educator might have been made secure if in 1852, after helping devise the Hoosier public
                            school system, he had consented to run for the office of State Superintendent and thus
                            perfect the organization. Had he not lived his most fruitful years in southern Indiana, he
                            might today be remembered among feminists with Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth C. Stanton and
                            among abolitionists with William Lloyd Garrison and Theodore Dwight Weld. But these are all
                            might-have-beens. The fact remains that Owen is largely forgotten, and the fault is partly
                            his.
                    
            
            Having worked out these essential notions in regard to Owen from the study of abundant sources that
                    he knew how to use, it remained only for the author to write the biography. The book is divided into
                    three parts, of which the headings are: "The Reformer," "The Western
                    Democrat," and "The Intellectual." To the first period, one hundred
                    twenty pages are devoted; to the second, one hundred eighty-one; to the third, one hundred ten. Only
                    three chapters of the seven that make up Part One of the biography are concerned with the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment launched by Robert Owen, the primary purpose of the volume being to portray
                    the long public career of Robert Dale Owen. "The Western Democrat" has received
                    more space than "The Re-former" or "The Intellectual," which
                    seems correct. The results of Owen's efforts in his middle period are important and
                    tangible. Did he not come closer to winning "lasting renown" as a political leader
                    than earlier or later? Strange to say, however, the author failed to mention Owen's
                    achievements in the field of politics or to explain why he did not actually attain greatness in that
                    realm in the keen paragraph of his "Preface," quoted above.
            It was not easy to prepare a biography of the versatile, almost-forgotten Robert Dale Owen, but Dr.
                    Leopold has  made the man live again. He has recreated Owen as
                    he was in his three periods. Often he was misunderstood and condemned because he was ahead of his
                    age. As he labored in different fields, he was handicapped in some of them by the prejudices that
                    his views evolved in others had produced against him. These phenomena of his life are brought out
                    and his changing views and variety of labors are portrayed. Much spade-work was done and well done
                    preliminary to the writing of this biography. In addition, the narrative is fine. The book makes
                    fascinating reading. It will appeal to the general reading public. At the same time, since it is
                    scholarly, well documented and accompained by an extensive bibliography, it will find high favor
                    with special students of history as well.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
         
         
            
               Camp Morton, 1861-1865: 
                            Indianapolis
                         Prison Camp. By Hattie Lou Winslow and Joseph R. H. Moore. Indiana Historical
                    Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1940. Pp. 156, illustrated, seventy-five cents.
            This Study is No. 3 of the Indiana Historical Society Publications, XIII,
                    comprising pages 227-383 of that volume. The seven chapters deal with Camp Morton mainly as one in
                    which Confederate prisoners were cared for. In 1861, the Camp was used largely as a place for
                    training Union soldiers, and, to this use, a chapter is given. No one can read the story of Camp
                    Morton without being impressed with the many serious and multiplying problems that presented
                    them-selves to the various persons in charge of the Camp during the War. Housing, bedding, fuel,
                    food, illness all furnished plenty of headaches to the officers. At the best, it would have been
                    difficult to manage the Camp efficiently, but most of the time even the best of the executives
                    assigned to duty worked under discouraging handicaps. The brightest days of the War for the
                    prisoners at Camp Morton were during the regime of Col. Richard Owen in 1862. In the remaining years
                    of the War, however, matters usually went from bad to worse. Much more could be told about this very
                    interesting though very distressing bit of war-time history, but the story must be read to get the
                    setting and the facts. If for no other reason, every northerner steeped in the traditions of the
                    treatment of Union soldiers in Confederate prisons during the 
                    Civil War should read this history of Camp Morton in order to learn that prisoners from Confederate
                    as well as from Union armies suffered greatly. The story cannot be recommended as one to be read
                    with enjoyment, but it can be highly praised as one to be read by those who like to know the truth
                    even when it hurts.
            W. O. L.
         
         
            
               The Swiss in the 
                            United States
                        
                is the title of a little volume of one hundred fifty-three pages recently
                    published at 
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , by the Swiss-American Historical Society. The author of the
                    book, Prof. John Paul von Grueningen, is Vice President of the Society, and member of the faculty of
                    the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . The book is illustrated and supplied with a number of maps. The latter indicates the
                    location and numbers of Swiss in the 
                        United States
                     and in the states that contain the larger Swiss contingents. The first of the six
                    chapters is devoted to tables of statistics and explanations, the next five to earlier and later
                    Swiss settlements in the 
                        United States
                    , and the sixth to "Swiss Spiritual Leadership" in this Country. In
                    this chapter relating to "
                        Switzerland
                    's less tangible gifts to America," there are discussions of Colleges,
                    Indian missions, and evidences of the transplanting of culture from the homeland. The book is the
                    second in a series undertaken by the Swiss Historical Society, the first of which was Prominent Americans of Swiss Origin (1932). The series is under the editorship of the
                    author of the second volume.
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               * Volume I, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               * Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
               Volume VII, 4 (Dec., 1911).
               * Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
               * Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               * Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               * Volume XVII, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1921).
               * Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
            
            A picture of John T. McKinney, a member of the Supreme Court of Indiana from 1831 to his death in
                    1837, is desired. Anyone who can supply a picture, or furnish inormation relative to one, will
                    kindly write to the Indiana University Librarian.
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General Index for the first
                    twenty-five volumes (1905-1929). The Index was compiled by Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file of the Magazine for a
                    period covered by the General Index, or for any considerable portion of the
                    period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain copies at $1.00 each. Send
                    orders to the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the articles of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages INDIANA TWENTY-FIVE YEARS AGO
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            The year of our Lord nineteen hundred fifteen does not seem so far back in the past as annual cycles
                    are counted, but, measured in events, the period has been a long one. The World War started in 1914.
                    Coming events are said to cast their shadows before, but, to most Americans, the great conflict that
                    was on a quarter century ago came with alarming and unexpected suddenness. During the decade
                    preceding the opening of that first titanic world struggle of the twentieth century, our country had
                    been passing through a period of unrest. A large part of the American people had become convinced
                    that the economic system had reached a stage where it was marked by many and great injustices. There
                    was also a decided ferment in regard to political inefficiency and corruption. Especially, was the
                    belief widespread that there was a sort of unholy alliance between big business and politics.
            William Jennings Bryan was still a crusading reformer, and Senator Robert 
                        Marion
                     La Follette of Wisconsin was at the climax of his career. Theodore Roosevelt, on the
                    basis of his reputation as a zealous progressive, overwhelmed his opponent, a conservative Democrat,
                    in the election of 1904, named his successor in 1908, and led away half of the Re-publican Party in
                    1912. Woodrow Wilson, erstwhile college professor and President of 
                        Princeton
                     University, attracted nation-wide attention as Governor of 
                        New Jersey
                    , and, be-coming President in 1913, he effectively led his party in Congress in a
                    program of constructive legislation. A score of other leaders of strongly progressive tendencies
                    could be named.
            In this period marked by reforming zeal, Indiana shared in the general unrest, but Hoosier
                    progressiveism was not particularly militant or outstanding. Most of the Republican leaders of the
                    time, who attained prominence within or with-out the state, were conservative—J. Frank
                    Hanley, James A. Hemenway, Charles W. Fairbanks, Winfield T. Durbin, James E. Watson, James P.
                    Goodrich. The Democratic leaders of the time were progressive only by comparison—John W.
                         Kern, Thomas R. Marshall, Benjamin F. Shivley, Samuel M.
                    Ralston. It is true that some of the listed Republican leaders sometimes agreed with Theodore
                    Roosevelt when he was President, and, that the Democrats mentioned, while slow to lead, on their own
                    initiative, anyone very far from the straight and narrow path of orthodox economic and political
                    doctrines, were pretty certain to follow where President Wilson led. In marked contrast to the party
                    and industrial leaders who were so clearly characterized by conservative tendencies was Albert J.
                    Beveridge. First elected to the Senate by the Indiana Legislature in 1899, he was reelected in 1905.
                    In 1909, he threw in his lot with the small group of Re-publican Senators who repudiated the
                    Payne-Aldrich Tariff measure. As a result of the election in 1910, the Senator was defeated in the
                    Legislature by John W. Kern. In 1912, Mr. Beveridge championed the cause of Theodore Roosevelt,
                    running for Governor of Indiana on the ticket of the Progressive Party. Two years later, he was
                    named as a candidate for Senator by the same party. The Progressive Party in Indiana was strong
                    enough to leave the state in the hands of the Democrats for a period, but not strong enough to place
                    Mr. Beveridge in any office. It should also be noted, that, after the disappearance of the
                    Progressive Party, the citizens of Indiana did not return this outstanding progressive leader to the
                    Senate of the 
                        United States
                     nor otherwise elevate him to a position of leadership. Fortunately, he devoted his time
                    to historical writing, and Claude G. Bowers later gave him recognition by making him a central
                    figure in his Progressive Era.
            
            In population, Indiana's growth was slower as the state matured. Fifty years ago, the number
                    of inhabitants was 2,192,404. Twenty-five years later, the figure stood some-where between 2,700,876
                    and 2,930,390, the totals for 1910 and 1920, respectively. Many counties showed very little
                    increase, while several showed slight decreases. The economic and social problems of Indiana had not
                    been greatly aggravated by urban expansion or by any large influx of foreigners before 1815, nor
                    have they been since. In fact, the number of foreign born persons in the state was only 150,868 in
                    1920. 
                        Lake County
                     reported 46,046, 
                        Marion County
                     18,185, and 
                        St. Joseph
                     County 17,174 in that year. No other counties ran as high as 8,000, though there were
                    three counties  in each of which the foreign born element
                    numbered between 5,000 and 8,000. When enumerating the reasons for poor government or graft in the
                    cities of the state, people often placed much of the blame on foreigners with no very good basis for
                    their contentions. With no strong tendency towards urbanization, Indiana remained essentially
                    conservative.
            The fact that most Hoosier cities grew slowly, caused a considerable proportion of the young people
                    of the state to migrate to newer states, or to older states with rapidly growing cities. This meant
                    a loss to the commonwealth, since many of those leaving Indiana were persons of aggressive spirit
                    and ability. Besides, most of them left in early maturity, after having received their training and
                    before ther was a chance to return much to the commonwealth that had fostered them throughout
                    childhood and youth. The flow away from Indiana still continues, as it does from other states that
                    have not become more and more highly industrialized. That ideal condition which people sometimes
                    dream about, where society shall become stabilized with a nice balance between agriculture, business
                    and industry is difficult of attainment. Unless the average number of children born and reared to
                    maturity is about two per family, there is little chance for any community or area to maintain
                    itself primarily under an agricultural economy without constantly losing a part of the younger
                    element year by year. This is what has happened for two or more generations in every county in
                    Indiana whose population has remained practically stationary decade after decade.
            Between 1890 and 1915, one may say that Indiana came of age. The pioneer period lingered on till
                    about 1890 in much of the state, but pioneer life and manners had disappeared before 1915. Already,
                    everything was becoming stream-lined. The automobile and moving pictures had come into their own and
                    the age of the radio and the airplane was just ahead. The wants of most families had already
                    multiplied and restless activity was taking the place of the slower, calmer way of life pursued by
                    earlier generations of Hoosiers.
            The panic of 1893 and the several years of depression that followed produced a period of Iow prices
                    long to be remembered. Those who are always sure that they would buy readily and extensively were
                    prices very low are greatly in error. It does not work out that way. On the other hand,  rising prices, instead of discouraging buying, greatly augment it. The
                    upswing of prices between 1900 and 1915 was accompanied by a vastly increased business over that
                    which prevailed in the dull and sluggish 'nineties. It is true, of course, that those who
                    lamented the high cost of living of those pre-war years were to learn that they had passed through
                    tame experiences compared to what the hectic years of the World War and after were to bring.
            With some alleviation of the wrongs and injustices that had come with the expansion of business and
                    industry, the American people could feel, in 1915, that the world had entered a new age. I suppose
                    that Hoosiers were about as hopeful and happy in that year as they had ever been. With more and more
                    modernized homes, an ever-expanding and more expensive educational system, easier access to
                    literature and books, better roads and transportation, why should not blessings continue to shower
                    upon them? Were the currents running true in 1915? Was there a real justification for the happiness
                    and hopes of that year, now one-fourth of a century behind us? Was it the World War which began in
                    1914 and ended in 1918 that deflected the currents, brought the delusions of the gilded age that
                    followed, the business disaster that came in its wake, and the new world conflict of today? If so,
                    when shall the true path of progress be discovered again? One thing is certain-mankind cannot
                    discover or re-discover that path too soon.
         
         
            
               Contributors: Miss Agnes M. Murray is a native of 
                        Canada
                    , having been born at Georgeville, near Montreal. She is now a graduate student at Duke
                    University, Durham, 
                        North Carolina
                    . The subject of her master's thesis is "Mid-Western Life in the
                    Novels of Edward Eggleston." Julie LeClerc 
                        Knox
                     lives at 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, where she is prominent in the local historical society. She has contributed a
                    number of earlier articles, as readers will recall. Major Joseph I. Lambert of the 
                        United States
                     Cavalry, is stationed at 
                        Chicago
                    . Hugh Th. Miller is a citizen of 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, who is widely known over the state. Dr. A. Dale Beeler is professor of
                    European history at 
                        Butler
                     University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Dr. Philip D. 
                        Jordan
                     is professor of history at Miami University, 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , and author of a
                    recent volume, William Salter: Western Torchbearer.
            
         
         
         
         
            Family History in Church Records
            MARY HILL
            A history of Carmel Congregation of the United Presbyterian Church, located near 
                        Hanover
                    , Indiana, from its beginning in 1812 down to 1882, was read by the Reverend H. P.
                    Jackson at the seventieth anniversary celebration of the church on August 23, 1882. This history,
                    later printed and published in pamphlet form by the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier, is of interest to a genealogist because of the names, dates, and family
                    records given in it. The account which follows is based on the Reverend Jackson's paper.
            On August 8, 1797, the Reverend Andrew 
                        Fulton
                    , in company with the Reverend Robert Armstrong, sailed from 
                        Scotland
                     for America, and arrived in 
                        New York
                     on October 13. They went first to 
                        Philadelphia
                     where they hired a wagoner to haul their books and baggage to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . They themselves went by stage to 
                        Lancaster
                    , then to 
                        Carlisle
                    , and from there on foot to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Here they stayed until February 21, 1798, when they embarked for Limestone, now
                    Maysville, 
                        Kentucky
                    . From Limestone they went overland to 
                        Lexington
                    .
            Fulton was born and educated in 
                        Scotland
                    . He was licensed to preach at Kilmarnock on December 17, 1793. He served in 
                        Kentucky
                     at Drennon's Creek in 
                        Henry County
                     and at Bear Grass near 
                        Louisville
                    , for seventeen years. When some of the members of the congregations seceded and moved
                    to 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana, 
                        Fulton
                     visited them there. He preached his first sermon in 
                        Jefferson County
                     at the home of George Shannon, Sr., on the bank of the 
                        Ohio
                    . Sometime in 1812, a congregation was formed, which took the name of Carmel, the first
                    Associate, or United, Presbyterian congregation in Indiana. The names of its first members were
                    George Shannon, Sr., Ann Shannon, John Anderson, James Anderson, Jane Anderson, Samuel
                    Ledgerwood,— Ledgerwood, John Swann, Sr., Jennet Swann, Thomas Taylor William Hay, Jane
                    Hay, Benjamin Miller, Sarah Miller, William Anderson, Sr., Catherine Anderson, and perhaps others.
                    In October 1816, the Reverend 
                        Fulton
                     removed to 
                        Jefferson County
                     and was installed as the pastor of this church. He also preached frequently at Rykers
                    Ridge at the home of Samuel Ledgerwood.
            
            The first building for Carmel congregation was erected in 1816 on the farm of James Matthews. It was
                    a wooden structure, thirty by forty feet. In 1839 an additional twenty feet was added, and in 1853 a
                    brick church was built, forty-six by sixty feet, at a cost of $3000.
            While in 
                        Kentucky
                     Rev. 
                        Fulton
                     had married Margaret Anderson, a sister of James and John Anderson. Of their children,
                    Jane, the eldest daughter married the Reverend James Adams and had one son Thomas Leander Adams who
                    removed to LaPorte. Mary, another daughter, married a Dr. Cowden. She died at 
                  Washington, Iowa
               . Andrew, their son, who was born just a few hours before his
                    father's death, was graduated from 
                        Hanover
                     College in 1836, studied medicine, and died in 
                        Kansas
                     City, 
                        Missouri
                    . Rev. Fulton died on September 10, 1818, aged sixty-three years. His widow married
                    Colonel James Morrow of Xenia, 
                        Ohio
                    , where they lived for a while, but returned to 
                        Hanover
                     where Margaret died and was buried beside her first husband.
            The Reverend Andrew Isaac, then came to Carmel, and, being a Scotsman, the congregation gave him a
                    call in October, 1820. He was born in Carr's Croft near Perth in 1789, educated at
                    Edinburgh and came to America in 1819. He served in 
                        Albany
                     Presbytery until 1820. He preached at Carmel twenty-three Sabbaths, 
                        Madison
                     thirteen, and Big Creek four. In 1827, he was installed as pastor at Londonderry, 
                        Ohio
                    . He died on September 12, 1840. He was married to Jane Rintoul in 
                        Scotland
                    . Their son, William Rose-burg Isaac, was born in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1820 and died at Londonderry, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1845. One daughter, unmarried, lived near New Concord, 
                        Ohio
                    . Mrs. Isaac died at Londonderry in 1872.
            John Wallace was called to Carmel in 1830, and died on March 22, 1833, at Vicksburg, 
                        Mississippi
                    . James M. Henderson was the next pastor. He was born on February 28, 1805, in 
                        Washington
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , of Scottish-American ancestry. He was installed as pastor of Carmel, 
                        Madison
                     and Big Creek on May 8, 1834, from which pastorate he re-signed in 1835. His wife, whom
                    he married on October 3, 1832, was Nancy McClenahan. They had seven children. One son served as
                    pastor at Elmira, 
                        Illinois
                    ; another was buried in Carmel Cemetery.
            The fifth pastor of Carmel Church was Moses Arnott, born on June 18, 1820, in 
                        Cambridge
                    , 
                        Washington
                     County, 
                    
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He came to Carmel in November, 1846, and began his work there on the second Sabbath in
                    July, 1847, preaching at Carmel and 
                        New Washington
                    . While he was there, the Carmel and Bethel congregations were united as related below.
                    He was married in 1848 to Mary H. Pollock, of Westmoreland County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . They had nine children, four of whom were buried at Cannel. Rev. Arnott died at the
                    home of Mary and Eliza Latta, at Cannel, and was buried on July 5, 1874. One daughter, Martha,
                    married R. B. Swann, and a son John Arnott was a lawyer in Canby, 
                        Minnesota
                    .
            The sixth pastor was H. P. Jackson, born on April 18, 1836, near Cedarville, 
                        Ohio
                    . He was married on February 14, 1866, to Maggie Frazier Dunlap of Cedarville. He came
                    to Carmel on June 17, 1875.
            Bethel Church was organized on May 28, 1828. It was first called Jefferson, then Bethel. The
                    following were received as members: Ann Shannon, Margaret Shannon, a Mrs. Gray, John Swann, Sr.,
                    Jennet Swann, William McCasland and wife, Michael Kinnear and wife, James Patterson, George Shannon,
                    Jr., and wife, Andrew Swann and wife, Thomas Baird and wife, John Shannon and wife, Thomas Shannon
                    and wife, George Reed and his wife Jane, William Gordon, and James Swann. George Shannon, Sr., and
                    Thomas Gray, Sr., were elders. Until the church was built in 1830, preaching was held at the home of
                    George Shannon, Sr.
            John McDill was installed as pastor at Bethel Church on June 22, 1835. He was born in Preble County, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1806, and graduated from Miami University in 1820. He married Mrs. Fannie W.
                    Johnson, widowed daughter of the Reverend R. G. Wilson, president of 
                        Ohio
                     University at 
                  Athens, Ohio
               . He died in 
                        Hanover
                     on July 27, 1840, and was buried in Bethel Cemetery, leaving a widow, a step-daughter,
                    Agnes Johnson, a son, James Wilson McDill, a daughter, Mary, who was born in 
                        Hanover
                    , and another daughter, Martha, who was born in 
                        Athens
                    . Agnes John-son was married at 
                        Hanover
                     to the Reverend Robert Hopkins who was drowned in 
                        Minnesota
                    . She later married the Reverend Samuel W. Pond, and lived at Shakopee, 
                        Minnesota
                    . In 1852, the widow of John McDill was married to William Pinkerton of Bloomingburg, 
                        Fayette County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . Mary and Martha McDill both married Pinkertons.
            
            John H. Bonner was installed at Bethel in April, 1845. He preached at Bethel, at 
                        Hopewell
                     in Scott County, and at Grayfriar's, three and one-half miles west of New
                    Washing-ton in 
                        Clark County
                    . The following are the names of preachers who also filled the pulpit: 
                        Campbell
                    , Turner, Worth, Warner, R. E. Stewart, N. C. McDill, Joseph Steel, Reid, Robertson, J.
                    R. 
                        Brown
                    , McCague, Sturgeon, J. S. McCracken, and N. R. Kirkpatrick.
            In 1854, the Bethel and Caledonia congregations were united as one charge with N. C. Kirkpatrick as
                    pastor. In 1858, Bethel and Carmel were united with the Reverend Moses Arnott in charge as mentioned
                    above.
            The first Session of Carmel Church in 1812 was composed of James Anderson, George Shannon, and Samuel
                    Ledgerwood. James Anderson was born near 
                  Brownsville, Fayette County
               , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 1780. He removed with his father's family to a site near
                            
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , then to 
                        Ohio
                    , and finally to Indiana in 1810. He was married by the Reverend Andrew 
                        Fulton
                     on January 29, 1807, to Jennet Laing, of 
                  Henry
                        County, Kentucky
               . They had six
                    children. Mr. Anderson died at the home of his son-in-law, the Reverend James 
                        Brown
                    , in 
                        Madison
                    , on June 3, 1848, aged 68 years. His wife died about the same time.
            George Shannon, Sr., was born March 4, 1759, in Lan-caster County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and was married to Ann Reid on March 24, 1785, in 
                        Lancaster
                     County. They came soon after to Scott County, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Mr. Shannon served through Indian Wars, and was wounded in the battle known as
                    "Crawford's Defeat." He removed to 
                        Greene
                     Coun ty, 
                        Ohio
                    , and, in 1810, to 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana, near where Bethel Church now stands. He died on December 5, 1840, aged
                    eighty-one years, eleven months and one day. He was buried at Bethel Cemetery.
            Ruling elders of Carmel Church included: Alexander Thompson, an elder in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , installed in August, 1817; died July 22, 1823, aged 62 years. William Watson,
                    in-stalled in August, 1817; died on April 15, 1852, aged 76 years. James Matthews, installed on
                    February 23, 1825; died on October 23, 1851, aged 81 years. John Anderson, installed on May 8, 1825;
                    moved west in 1837. George Currie, installed on May 8, 1835; died on March 10, 1868, aged 74 years.
                    James 
                        Hamilton
                    , installed May 8, 1835; died on October  26, 1874,
                    aged 79 years. William Patterson, installed on May 8, 1835; died on October 19, 1869, aged 70 years.
                    Robert Taylor, installed on October 5, 1849; died on October 11, 1872, aged 72 years. Thomas Clegg,
                    installed on March 29, 1839; moved west in 1840. Alexander Hannah, installed on October 5, 1849;
                    moved to 
                        Greene County
                    , Indiana. John L. Anderson, installed on October 5, 1849; moved west and died on
                    September 15, 1876. James A. Cochren, ordained in April, 1872. Robert Taylor, Jr., ordained in
                    April, 1872. John P. Matthews, ordained on January 9, 1877. James Hanna, ordained on January 9,
                    1877. John McKee, ordained October, 1881; moved to 
                        Tipton County
                    , Indiana.
            Ruling elders of Bethel Church included: George Shan-non, Sr., and Thomas Gray, Sr., 1828. James
                    Patterson, in-stalled on June 7, 1828; died on March 14, 1854, aged 77 years. William D. Thorn,
                    ordained June 23, 1838; moved West. Thomas Shannon, ordained on November 12, 1842; died on August
                    16, 1868, aged 73 years. James McMillan, in-stalled on November 4, 1843; died on October 1, 1855,
                    aged 68 years. Robert Irvin, installed on October 2, 1847; removed in 1849. Henry J. Bonner,
                    installed on October 2, 1847; removed in 1851. Andrew Mann, ordained on November 30, 1851; moved
                    west in 1878. James L. Swann, ordained en October 7, 1854; died on December 31, 1878, aged 72 years.
                    Charles L. Gordon, ordained on October 7, 1854; removed in 1860.
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            Query 113: CARTER FAMILY
            I would like to know the birth date of one Rev. Byram (?) Carter, a Methodist clergyman. His
                    daughter, Susan, married David Dannenberger, who was born in Berks County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 1827. Susan Carter was born in Indiana, and died in 
                  Cass County, Illinois
               . Other information about this Carter family would be
                    appreciated.—K.A.T.
            Query 114: BRUNER FAMILY
            Elizabeth Bruner was born on November 24, 1797. She was married on May 19, 1816, to Andrew Dillman
                    who was born in 1790. This Andrew Dillman was the son of Andrew Dillman (b. 1751, in Northumberland
                    County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ), and the grandson of the immigrant Andrew Dillman, who came from Prussia. The Dillman
                    and Bruner families came to Jessamine County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , about the same time. Andrew and Elizabeth (Bruner) Dillman, came to 
                        Monroe County
                    , Indiana, in 1830, and reared a large family. Ancestors of Elizabeth Bruner are
                    wanted.—U.S.
            Query 115: BURLISON-HAMPTON FAMILY
            My great grandfather, Aaron Burlison, married Elizabeth Hampton. He was born in Bowling Green, 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1786. I do not know when or where Elizabeth was born, but she was thought to have
                    been the daughter of a Wade Hampton, of the 
                        South Carolina
                     line. Aaron and Elizabeth were married about 1805 and moved to what was then known as
                    McFadden's Bluff, now 
                  Mount Vernon, Posey County
               , Indiana, about 1816. Two sisters of Aaron
                    Burlison were thought to have been living there at that time. One sister was the wife of Andrew
                    McFadden, and the other, the wife of Wiley Welborn, first postmaster at 
                        Mount Vernon
                    . Any information relative to these families will be welcome, including the addresses of
                    descendants who might give the names of the parents or of the brothers and sisters of Aaron and
                    Elizabeth Hampton Burlison.—W.H.R.
            
            Query 116: HOLMAN FAMILY
            I am interested in the family of Jesse Lynch Holman (1784-1842), and his son William Steele Holman
                    (1822-1897). The son was born near 
                  Aurora, Dearborn County
               , Indiana, and died at 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., while serving his sixteenth term as Representative from the fourth district of
                    Indiana. A biography of Judge Jesse Lynch Holman is being compiled, and definite genealogical
                    records of this Holman family will be appreciated.—I. George Blake, 
                        Franklin
                     College, 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana.
            Query 117: HIATT-ROBERDS FAMILY
            Aaron Hiatt was born on February 16, 1815, in 
                  Grant County,
                            Ohio
               , and died on October 12, 1903, at
                    Greeley, 
                        Colorado
                    . He was married on August 1, 1836, to Lucinda Roberds (Roberts) who was born on May 5,
                    1847, in 
                        Marion County
                    , Indiana. She died on January 5, 1874. The place of her death is wanted. The father of
                    Aaron Hiatt was William Hiatt. He was born in 
                        Randolph
                     County, 
                        North Carolina
                    , and married Elizabeth Sulgrove. Both died in Indiana. Thomas Roberds, father of
                    Lucinda, was born about 1779 in Indiana or 
                        Ohio
                    , and is thought to have married Ann Randall in 1798. Any information concerning these
                    families will be appreciated.—C.H.
            Query 118—SELLERS FAMILY
            The Census of 1820 (and also that of 1830) lists members of the Sellers family (the name spelled in
                    various ways) in a number of Indiana counties. We are interested in Thomas Sellers who married
                    Diadema Curtis. Their son, Allen Davenport Sellers, was born on November 13, 1833, in 
                        Crawford County
                    , Indiana. Thomas Sellers sold his property on April 1, 1835, in Union Township, 
                        Crawford County
                    , Indiana. Ancestral records of Thomas and Diadema (Curtis) Sellers and any related
                    material are wanted.-L. Garrett Myers, Supt. of the Genealogical Society of 
                        Utah
                    , 80 N. Main Street, Salt Lake City, 
                        Utah
                    .
            Query 119: BENTON FAMILY
            Samuel Benton was born about 1785, in Berks County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He was the son of Jonathan 
                        Benton
                    , who is  supposed to have come from 
                        England
                     about 1780. Samuel 
                        Benton
                     lived a few years in Blair County, then in Hunting-ton County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . About 1845, he removed to Indiana and is thought to have settled in Noble County, but
                    there are no Bentons in that county at this time. Further genealogical data on this family in
                    Indiana and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     are desired.—H.J.S., 1031 W. 90th St., 
                  Los Angeles, California
               .
            Answer to Query 98 (March, 1940, p. 71, I.E.T.): Under various spellings, there are records of four
                    McClintocks who signed petitions in 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana, in 1809: John Mc-Clintick, John McClintick, Jr., Sarni McClintick, and Wm.
                    McClentick signed one asking for an extension of the voting privilege to "all free Males
                    who have attained the age of 21 years done military duty & paid taxes"; John
                    Mc-Clintinick, John McClintick, Jr., and Sarni McClintick, but not William, signed a petition asking
                    that Governor William Henry Harrison be replaced by a "Governor whose Sentiments are more
                    Congenial with those of the People." Clarence Edwin Carter, (ed.), The
                        Territorial Papers of the United States, VII., The Territory of Indiana
                        1800-1810 (Washing-ton, 1939), 687-90, 705-7.—Mrs. Sumner Hayward, 224 Richards
                    Road, Ridgewood, 
                        New Jersey
                    .
            Answer to Query 84 (June, 1939, p. 218, S.H.W.): The Parr family of 
                        Crawford County
                    , Indiana, does not seem related to the 
                        Washington
                     County, Indiana, family of this name. H. H. Pleasant, "
                        Crawford County
                    ," Indiana Magazine of History (June, 1922), XVIII, 135-136,
                    makes the statement: "Burton Parr became a very useful citizen of the county. One of his
                    descendants, E. E. Parr, was elected trustee of 
                        Boone
                     township in 1914. At the close of his term of office he was re-elected. John Parr,
                    another one of his relatives, was elected trustee of 
                        Boone
                     township in 1900." In the list of those who bought farms in 
                        Crawford County
                    , Indiana, in 1827, is Thomas Parr. This reference, with court records of 
                        Crawford County
                    , should answer your query.—M.T.M.
            Answer to Query 106 (June, 1940, p. 168, J.A.H.): A sketch of General Joseph Orr in the Illustrated Historical
                    
                    Atlas of the State of Indiana (
                        Chicago
                    , 1876), 196, may help the author of this query. Joseph Orr was born at Mount Rock, 
                        Cumberland County
                    , July 28, 1794. His father was of Scotch-Irish and his mother of English descent. He
                    came West with his parents in 1799, landing in 
                        Cincinnati
                     on April 1. When he was eighteen he was bound out to a carpenter. He read and studied
                    at night, and when twenty-four years of age, he married a schoolteacher three years younger than
                    himself. In 1823, they moved to 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, where they remained for ten years. In 1825, he was elected colonel in the
                    militia, in 1827, brigadier general and in 1830, major general. He served for forty-seven days in
                    the Black Hawk War in 1832. He was a member of the State Legislature for five successive terms
                    beginning in 1828. In 1833, he and his family moved to LaPorte County where he was still living in
                    1876, aged eighty-two years. Records of Frances Orr, daughter of Dr. Joseph and Mary (Graham) Orr,
                    mentioned in the query, are being investigated.—Mrs. Charles R. Emery, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Answer to Query 102 (June, 1940, p. 166, C.C.S.): In the Indiana Magazine of
                    History (December, 1936), XXXIII, 442, among the marriage records of 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , Indiana, is the following marriage record which may help: "Stanley, Joseph,
                    to Lidia Bilderback (consent of Gabriel Bilderback, her father), T [ippecanoe] C [ounty] L [awful] A
                    [gel July 14, 1829; by Abel Janney, J P, July 16, 1829." Further records of the Stanley
                    family in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     may be found in the records of the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historial Society.—M.T.M.
         
         
         
            Cemetery Records
            EAST LEBANON CEMETERY-HENRY COUNTY
            
               Copied by EUGENE STUDEBAKER WIERBACH
            
               Joshua Hickman—Minister of the Gospel in the Regular Baptist Church; d. Aug. 19,
                        1842; aged 76 yrs., 4 mos., 9 days; "He lies in the affections of his
                        friends."
               Josinah—wife of Joshua Hickman; d. June 3, 1857; aged 89 yrs., 4 mos., 19 days.
               James T. Hickman—1837-1921.
               Judith A. Hickman—1842-1909.
               Elcie Dodd—d. Jan. 10, 1865; aged 66 yrs., 7 mos., 24 days.
               James Dodd—d. June 24, 1861; aged 81 yrs., 6 mos., 3 days.
               Lewis Veach—d. Feb. 17, 1859; aged 68 yrs., 6 mos., 7 days.
               Elenor—his [Lewis Veach's] wife; d. April 1, 1865; aged 76 yrs., 6 mos., 2
                        days.
               Mary A.—wife of Henry H. Veach; d. Feb. 1, 1863; aged 28 yrs., 5 mos., 19 days.
               Jesse Veach—d. March 4, 1843; aged 2 yrs.
               William Veach—d. July 15, 1840; aged 1 yr., 2 mos., 26 days.
               William Veach—b. Oct. 9, 1805; d. Jan. 8, 1870.
               Elizabeth—first wife [of William Veach]; b. May 12, 1813; d. Aug. 8, 1854.
               Mary Bales—second wife [of William Veach]; b. April 9, 1824; d. Sept. 3, 1915.
               John Mellett—d. Sept. 13, 1859; aged 47 yrs., 6 mos., 20 days.
               Sarah—his [John Mellet's] wife; d. Aug. 21, 1883; aged 74 yrs., 4 mos., 12
                        days.
               Mary Ann—wife of John Mellett, Esq.; d. Feb. 8, 1853; aged 57 yrs., 10 mos., 1 day.
               John Mellett—d. July, 1838; aged 60 yrs.
               J. Arthur—son of J. and M. A. Mellett; d. Oct. 30, 1839; aged 1 yr., 9 mos.
               William Mellett Sr.—d. March 31, 1855; aged 73 yrs.
               William H. Mellett—d. Aug. 19, 1851; aged 18 yrs.
               John C. Mellett—b. April 27, 1803; d. Dec. 25, 1853.
               Arthur C. Mellett—son of J. C. and Cynthia Mellett; d. Aug. 20, 1833; aged 3 yrs.,
                        11 mos., 8 days.
               Rebecca A.—dau. of John C. and Cynthia Mellett; d. Sept. 5, 1864; aged 17 yrs., 7
                        mos., 12 days.
               Abel Williams—1774-1847.
               Rebecca Williams—1787-1866.
               Joshua L. Williams—1806-1826.
               Van Williams—b. 1817; d. April 1, 1842.
               Rebecca—consort of Dr. Win. R. Williams; d. July 16, 1857; aged 41 yrs., 11 mos., 9
                        days.
               Sarah Ann—dau. of Wm. H. and Rebecca Williams; d. June 15, 1842; aged 6 yrs., 5
                        mos., 14 days.
               Josinah—wife of Wm. Kinsey; d. Oct. 18, 1850.
            
            
            UNION TOWNSHIP, HENDRICKS COUNTY, CEMETERIES1
            
            
               Copied by Roscoe R. LEAK
            
               Cundiff Cemetery: 2
            
            
               Susan—wife of Elias Leach; d. Sept. 23, 1875; aged 56 yrs., 11 mos., 2 days.
               Elias Leach—b. 1815, d. 1906 [b. May 10, 1815; d. Aug. 31, 1906].
               Isaac Vieley—d. Feb. 8, 1849; aged 62 yrs., 2 mos., 18 days.
               Nancy Duncan—d. May 10, 1835; aged 51 yrs. [This is the oldest grave in the
                        township.]
               Francis M.—son of D. S. and L. M. Buzzard; d. Aug. 23, 1838; aged 11 yrs., 9 mos.,
                        13 days.
               William Leak—d. Sept. 11, 1845; aged 43 yrs., 3 mos.
               
                  
                            Virginia
                         O.—wife of Charles M. Leak; d. Feb. 19, 1866; aged 25 yrs.
            
            
               Bailey Form: 3
            
            
               Elizabeth—wife of James Leak; b. Nov. 8, 1786; d. May 22, 18524
               
               James Leak—b. Sept. 21, 1787; d. Nov. 14, 1865.5
               
            
            
               Griffith Cemetery: 6
            
            
               Jackson Griffith—d. June 13, 1860; aged 53 yrs., 7 mos., 22 days.
               William P.—son of J. and N. Griffith; d. Nov. 4, 1864; aged 18 yrs., 3 mos., 28
                        days; Co. H, Eleventh Indiana Cavalry.
               James M.—son of Jackson and Nancy Griffith; d. Sept. 29, 1847; aged 15 yrs., 8
                        mos., 3 days.
               Benjamin Griffith—d. Nov. 22, 1852; aged 70 yrs., 9 mos., 21 days.
               Ruth—wife of Benjamin Griffith; d. June 24, 1855; aged 68 yrs.
               Nancy—wife of John D. Hiatt; d. Jan. 17, 1853; aged 23 yrs., 6 mos.
               Mary—dau. of Henry and Hannah Lewis; d. May 4, 1849; aged 19 yrs., 9 mos., 17
                    days.
            
            
               Groover Cemetery: 7
            
            
               Ida—wife of A. Pigg; 1808-1859.
               Claborn—husband of Bashaba Davidson; d. Aug. 29, 1861; aged 55 yrs., 5 mos., 29
                        days.
               Martha—wife of Henry Hendricks; d. Sept. 11, 1855.
               Henry Hendricks—d. May 19, 1855; aged 87 yrs., 6 mos., 3 days.
               Ely Martin—d. Sept. 8, 1869; aged 30 yrs., 7 mos., 2 days.
               James Martin—1797-1847.
               Mary Martin—1800-1879.
               Evaline—wife of Landrum Leak; d. Sept. 2, 1845; aged 25 yrs.
               George Bishop—d. Nov. 30, 1854; aged 26 yrs., 8 mos.
               Katherine—wife of Thomas J. Pigg; d. Oct. 24, 1855; aged 21 yrs., 2 mos. 
                     
                        1 Hendricks County Cemetery Records are continued from the June,
                                1940, issue of Indiana Magazine of History, %%%VI. 171-78.
                     
                        2 Located in sec. 2, tp. 17N, R1W, one-half mile north of Lizton.
                     
                        3 Located in tp. 17N, R1W, one mile north of Lizton.
                     
                        4 Elizabeth 
                                    Vermillion
                                 Leak was born on the site of 
                                    Washington
                                , D.C.
                     
                        5 James Leak was born in 
                                    Virginia
                                , a son of Robert and Susan (Leak) Leak who died in Bracken County, 
                                    New York
                                .
                     
                        6 Located in sec. 19. tp. 17, R1W, two miles northwest of Lizton.
                     
                        7 Located in sec. 19. tp. 17, R1W, two miles northwest of
                            Lizton.
                  
               
               
               David—son of M. and R. Bishop; d. Dec. 2, 1855; aged 24 yrs., 5 mos., 17 days.
               Editha—dau. of Anderson and Ida Pigg; d. Dec. 14, 1856; aged 16 yrs., 2 mos., 8
                        days.
               Martha—dau. of Miller and Rebecca Bishop; d. June 27, 1857.
               Mary—wife of Jesse Hendrix; d. Jan. 8, 1859; aged 54 yrs., 7 mos., 10 days.
               William Knott—d. June 9, 18132; aged 80 yrs., 5 mos., 4 days.
               William S.—son of Jesse and Mary Hendrix; d. Oct. 25, 1845; aged 18 yrs.
               Eli Hendrix—d. Oct. 2, 1869; aged 68 yrs., 10 mos., 23 days.
               Mary E. Hendrix—wife of Eli; b. 1815; d. Apr. 12, 1882.
               Thomas—son of J. R. and M. Jackson; d. Dec. 22, 1865; aged 21 yrs., 2 mos., 20
                        days; Co. K, 41st Regiment, 2d Cavalry, Indiana Volunteers.
               John Patterson—d. Sept. 11, 1851; aged 60 yrs.
               Mary—dau. of J. and A. Stutsman; d. Oct. 17, 1845; aged 14 yrs., 3 mos., 4 days.
               James H. Groover—1819-1899; and his wife Nancy Hencricks, 1821-1909.
            
            
               Pritchett Cemetery: 8
            
            
               John—son of T. G. and M. Pritchett; d. July 9, 1874; aged 21 yrs., 5 mos.
               Mary—wife of John Pritchett; d. Dec. 10, 1856; aged 75 yrs., 6 mos., 7 days.
               John Pritchett—d. Aug. 5, 1858; aged 75 yrs., 11 mos., 19 days.
            
            
               Leach Cemetery: 9
            
            
               Meredith Leach—d. Oct. 19, 1859; aged 50 yrs., 6 mos., 23 days.
               Eliza—wife of M. Leach; b. March 12, 1808; d. Oct. 9, 1888; aged 80 yrs., 6 mos.,
                        27 days.
               James V. Leach—d. Jan. 30, 1864; aged 15 yrs., 1 mo., 15 days.
               Unmarked double grave under west slab. [John Leach b. Feb. 19, 1777; d. Oct. 9, 1837. Mary
                        Hall Leach—wife of John Leach, 1771-1850.]10
               
            
            
               Leach Cemetery: 11
            
            
               Anderson Leach—d. Sept. 14, 1863; aged 52 yrs., 1 mo., 22 days.
               Matilda—wife of A. Leach; d. Aug. 25, 1873; aged 67 yrs., 8 mos., 5 days.
               Susan—dau. of A. and M. Leach; d. Oct. 18, 1847; aged 12 yrs., 11 mos., 17
                    days.
            
            
               
                  
                            Montgomery
                         Chapel Cemetery: 12
            
            
               
                  
                            Warren
                         E. Hedge—Civil War soldier. 
                     
                        8 Located in sec. 6, tp. 16N. R1W, two miles southwest of Lizton.
                     
                        9 Located in sec. 6, tp. 16N, RIW.
                     
                        10 John Leach was the father of Enos, Meredith, Anderson, Elias,
                                and others. His was the second grave in Union Township.
                     
                        11 This is a second Leach Cemetery. located in tp.17N, R1W.
                     
                        12 Located in sec32, tp,17N, R1W. one-half mile south of Lizton.
                                This Methodist Church was organized in 1832 at the home of William Montgomery.
                  
               
               
               Tranum Toney—d. Jan. 16, 1875; aged 63 yrs., 6 mos.
               William Montgomery—d. Oct. 21, 1856; aged 76 yrs., 10 mos., 11 days.
               Sarah—wife of William Montgomery; d. May 23, 1859; aged 78 yrs., 6 mos., 18 days.
               William W. Kendall—d. Aug. 15, 1879; aged 33 yrs., 10 mos., 23 days; Co. F, 133rd
                        Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, Civil War.
               Francis A. Scott—b. Dec. 13, 1816; d. June 9, 1895.
               Malinda Scott—wife of Francis Scott; b. May 6, 1822; d. Oct. 5, 1862.
               A. W. Jones—d. Jan. 7, 1864; aged 24 yrs., 2 mos., 22 days; Co. C, 51st Regiment,
                        Indiana Volunteers, Civil War.
               Samuel Jones—b. Oct. 17, 1814; d. Sept. 9, 1893.
               Mary M. Jones—b. June 14, 1815; d. Oct. 11, 1873.
               Isom Scott—b. Jan. 5, 1822; d. Aug. 1, 1863.
               Polly Scott—b. Dec. 8, 1821; d. April 8, 1908.
               Sarah A.—wife of A. D. Rainey; d. July 11, 1873; aged 25 yrs., 8 mos., 28 days.
               Margaret S. Scott—d. April 6, 1874; aged 17 yrs., 11 mos.
               William G. 
                            Montgomery
                        —d. June 5, 1875; aged 35 yrs., 29 days.
            
         
         
         
            Abstracts of Early Wills and Executors' Records1
            
            
               By DOROTHY RIKER
            
               
                  Sanburn, Richard Searles. Will dated September 26, 1828; probated February
                        23, 1829. Heirs: wife, Eunice Sanburn; sons, Mathew Pearce and Mathew Isaac (?). Executor:
                        Abednego Richardson. Witnesses: Henry Collins, Henry J. Tobias. Codicil dated November 7, 1828
                        mentions sons John Safford Knappe and Mathew Pearce Sanburn. Owned land in 
                            New Hampshire
                         (
                            Clark County
                         Will Record B, 1817-33, 374-76).
               
                  
                     
                                Montgomery
                            , William. Will dated March 3, 1828; probated April 9, 1829. Heirs: wife
                        (name not given); sons, John (eldest), William, James, Robert, Thomas, Johnson, David, Samuel,
                        Matthew, Alexander; daughters, Mary McMillen, Jane Arbuckle, Nancy Gillespie (wife of Robert
                        Gillespie). Executors: son William and John Rankens (or Rankin). Witnesses: Jacob Rhoads, John
                        Robison (ibid., 377-80).
               
                  Needham, Joseph. Administrator, William Bland, appointed May 25, 1829. Bond,
                        $500. Securities not given (ibid., 380).
               
                  Eller, Peter. Will dated March 1, 1828; probated June 3, 1829. Heirs: wife,
                        Samen (?) Eller; children, Polly, Henry, David. Executor: Jacob Pearsall. Witnesses: John
                        Miller, Henry B. Wair. Pearsall re-fused to serve as executor and John Prather was appointed
                        administrator, August 6 (ibid., 381-82).
               
                  Seveney, James. Administrator, Mordecai Seveney, appointed Au-gust 6, 1829.
                        Bond, $600. Security: Samuel McCampbell (ibid., 383).
               
                  Heaton, 
                                Washington
                            . Administrator, 
                            Butler
                         Dunbar, appointed Au-gust 10, 1829. Bond, $100. Security: William
                        Spencer (ibid., 383).
               
                  Morrison, John. Administrator, widow Elizabeth E. Morrison, appointed August
                        17, 1829. Bond, $700. Security: Isaac 
                            Shelby
                        , Samuel Prather (ibid., 384).
               
                  Baker, Barzillai. Will dated April 22, 1828; probated September 7, 1829.
                        Heirs: wife, Nancy Baker; children, names not given except of son, William. Executors: John
                        Rodgers, Samuel Patterson. Witnesses: Samuel Patterson, David Miller (ibid.,
                        384-86).
               
                  Searles, Ansel. Administrator, Isaac Searles, appointed September 7, 1829
                            (ibid., 387).
               
                  Hilton, Truman. Will dated August 7, 1827; probated November 3, 1829. Heirs:
                        daughters, Velinda, Paesley, Sinthy. Executors: James and Emsley Hilton. Witnesses: Charles
                        Beggs, Henry Summers, William Patrick (ibid., 387-88).
               
                  Bond (?), Jacob. Administrators, David and Jacob Bond, appointed January 5,
                        1830 (ibid., 388).
               
                  Tobias, Henry J. Administrator, Maria Tobias, appointed November 3 (?), 1829
                        (ibid., 389).
               
                  Raymond, 
                                Orlando
                            . Administrator, William H. Hurst, appointed November 3, 1829 (ibid., 389).
                            
                     
                        1 Continued from the September 1940 issue of Indiana
                                    Magazine of History. Compiled from microfilm copies of 
                                    Clark County
                                , Indiana, Will Record B, 1817-1833. made from the Historical Records
                                Survey. Works Progress Administration, in 1936, and deposited in the Archives Division
                                of the Indiana State Library. This installment ends the series from 
                                    Clark County
                                 records.
                  
               
               
               
                  Henly, Jesse. Administrators, widow Polly and son Stephen Henly, appointed
                        January 4, 1830 (ibid., 389).
               
                  Beggs, John. Administrator, Thomas Clegg, appointed May 4, 1830 (ibid.,
                        390).
               
                  Carter, Edward. Administrator, Sarah Carter, apointed May 3, 1830 (ibid., 390).
               
                  Garriott, Elijah. Administrator, Ambrose Garriott, appointed May 3, 1830
                        (ibid., 390).
               
                  Henthorn, Abraham. Will dated March 31, 1830; probated May 3, 1830. Heirs:
                        wife, Anna (?) Henthorn; children, Alfred, Isaac, Elizabeth, Sally, Mary, Enos. Executor: Anna
                        Henthorn. Witnesses: Elisha Long, Daniel Alsott (ibid., 391-92).
               
                  Nichols, Thomas, and Spellman, Anna. Will dated September 27, 1828; probated
                        May 3, 1830. Heir: one who survives the other; Witnesses: John E. Roe, Hezekiah Smith. A codicil
                        representing the will of Anna Spellman was made March 2, 1830, giving Thomas Nichols as her
                        heir. Witnesses: John Reagan, John Louden (ibid., 392-93).
               
                  Daily, Philip. Will dated February 20, 1830; probated May 3, 1830. Heirs:
                        wife, Mary Daily; daughters, Mary Huckleberry, Charlotte T. Boyers, Elizabeth Field, Elenor
                        Applegate; sons, David, Philip, Eli, Jacob; children of daughters, Catherine Carr (deceased) and
                        Elenor Applegate. Executors: sons, David, Philip, Eli. Witnesses: Benjamin Ferguson, Electious
                        (?) Athon (ibid., 393-95).
               
                  Nichols, Thomas. Will dated April 23, 1830; probated July 8, 1830. Heir: W.
                        G. Armstrong. Executors: John Cummings, John Fislar. Witnesses: Elijah Cummings, Thomas Lomas
                        (Lomax ?) (ibid., 395).
               
                  Stockwell (or Stackwell ?), Samuel. Administrator, Mary Stock-well,
                        appointed July 9, 1830 (ibid., 395).
               
                  Jenkins, Charrity. Will dated July 11, 1830; probated August 26, 1830.
                        Heirs: sons, John, Jason (?), 
                            Bartholomew
                        ; daughters, Elizabeth Riggle, Margaret Willy (or Wilby ?), McGill. Executor: son,
                        John F. Jenkins. Witnesses: Richard Slider CO, Bennet Nugent (ibid., 396-97).
               
                  Cleghorn, John. Will dated July 10, 1828; probated August 31, 1830. Heirs:
                        wife, Elizabeth Cleghorn; daughter, Martha Prather, and her two sons, Peter and John Smith.
                        Executor: grandson, John Smith. Witnesses: John Douthitt, James Scott (ibid.,
                        397-98).
               
                  Johnson, Baker. Administrators, John N. Lewis and Martha Johnson, appointed
                        August 31, 1830. Bond, $1200. Securities: John Johnson, Samuel Prather (ibid., 398).
               
                  McDonald, Daniel. Will dated April 17, 1830; probated September
                        —, 1830. Heirs: wife and children, names not given except of son, Daniel; brother and
                        sister, John and Molly; mother. Executors: Henry Huckleberry, Benjamin Ferguson. Witnesses:
                        Benjamin Ferguson, Philip Daily (ibid., 399-400).
               
                  Stewart, David. Administrators, widow Minty (?) and son James W. Stewart,
                        appointed September 22, 1830. Bond, $800. Security, William Adams (ibid., 401).
               
                  McCormick, James. Administrator, widow Susannah McCormick, appointed  September 24, 1830. Bond, $600. Security: Asa
                        Glover, Joseph 
                            Bartholomew
                         (ibid., 401).
               
                  Biggs, William. Administrator, widow Elizabeth Biggs and Henry E. Sutton,
                        appointed October 13, 1830 (ibid., 402).
               
                  Dickeson, Moses D. Administrator, William Lewis (?), appointed November 6,
                        1830 (ibid., 402).
               
                  Houghland, 
                                Spencer
                            . Administrator, John McCoy, appointed November 6, 1830 (ibid., 403).
               
                  McCalley, Hugh. Administrators, Eli McCalley and George Carr, appointed
                        November 22, 1830. Bond, $4000. Securities: Samuel Stackwether, James Sharpe (ibid., 403).
               
                  Overman, Joseph. Will dated Aug. 28, —; probated November 27,
                        1830. Heirs: wife, Jane Overman, and children (names not given). Executor: Peter Arnet (?).
                        Witnesses: Elias Long, Daniel Covert, Burgon (?) Covert. Arnet refused to serve as executor and
                        Thomas Overman was appointed administrator. Securities: John Conner (?), William A]lstott,
                        William Covert (ibid., 404-5).
               
                  Owen, Timothy. Administrator, widow Lucy Owen, appointed February 24, 1831.
                        Bond, $300. Security, James Wair (ibid., 406).
               
                  Sylvester, Perdue. Administrators, widow Rachel and William Sylvester,
                        appointed February 25, 1831. Bond, $1000. Securities: George and Aaron Scott (ibid., 406).
               
                  Reynon, Patrick. Administrators, widow Priscilla and William Reynon,
                        appointed March 26, 1831. Bond, $600. Security, John Denolly (?) (ibid., 408).
               
                  Williams, Samuel. Administrator, widow Rhoda Williams, appointed April 25,
                        1831. Bond, $600. Security, Peter McCaskey (ibid., 408).
               
                  Swartz, John. Administrator, widow Martha Swartz, appointed June 8, 1831.
                        Bond, $500. Securities: George Grismore and John Hobson (?)' (ibid., 409).
               
                  Cline, Daniel, of 
                            New Washington
                        . Will dated July 27, 1830; pro-bated [left blank]. Heirs: wife, Nancy Cline; sons,
                        John, William; daughter, Elizabeth Russel. Executor: Nancy Cline. Witnesses: Joseph Bower, J. T.
                        Roe, Louisa Russel (ibid., 409-10).
               
                  Seaver, John. Will dated June 13, 1831; probated July 8, 1831. Heirs: wife,
                        Eve Seaver; Nancy Athen (or 
                            Athens
                        ); James Smith; John, William, and Henry Patterson, infant children of Robert
                        Patter-son; William Boyer; Margaret, Thomas, and Amanda Athen; James L. Patterson, son of
                        Francis Patterson; Executors: Francis Patterson, Esrom Hutchings. Witnesses: 
                            Randolph
                         Pangburn, Joseph Hutchings, Corneals (?) Watson (ibid., 411-12).
               
                  Hopkins, Robert. Administrator, Ezra Kemp, appointed September 19, 1831.
                        Bond, $2000. Security, John Austin (ibid., 412).
               
                  Abbott, George. Administrator, John Henderson, appointed October 30 (?)
                        1831. Bond, $200. Security,— Rodgers (ibid., 412).
               
                  Bower, Adam, of 
                            Washington
                         Township. Will dated April 23, 1826; probated September 10, 1831. Heirs: children,
                        Polly or Mary (Mrs. Jesse Henly), Solomon, Joseph, Elizabeth (Mrs. Eli Wright), Daniel, Barbara
                        (Mrs. Shem Hostetler), Absalom. Solomon married to Jemina Parr, Joseph to Rachel Carroll, Daniel
                        to Elizabeth Hostetler. Executors:  Jesse Henly and son,
                        Daniel. Witnesses: Nancy Henly and Nancy Bower. Owned land in 
                            Illinois
                         Grant and in 
                            Monroe County
                         (ibid., 413-14).
               
                  Travis, Robert. Administrator, David Denny Mudd, appointed January 7, 1832
                            (ibid., 415).
               
                  Coombs, Sarah. Will dated May 26, 1831; probated January 18, 1832. Heirs:
                        Hiram Coombs; sons, John, Jesse, David. Other son, Joel, and heirs of deceased sons, William and
                        Joseph, already provided for. Executor: Absalom Carr. Witnesses: Jonathan Jennings, James Beggs,
                        Benjamin Mather (ibid., 415-16).
               
                  Wilson, Thomas D. Administrators, Catherine E. and Edward B. Wilson,
                        appointed January 7, 1832 (ibid., 416-17).
               
                  Hutsell, Stephen. Administrator, widow Mary Hutsell, appointed February 29,
                        1832. Bond, $800. Securities: Adam Troutman, Andrew Guiltner (ibid., 417).
               
                  Work, John. Will dated December 19, 1831; probated March Term, 1832. Heirs:
                        wife, Sarah, and son, John R.; daughters, Anna Reid (widow of William Reid), Rebecca and
                        husband, John Faris; sons-in-law, Stephen Hutchings, John Shannon; John and James Drummond
                        [possibly grandsons]. Executor: wife and son. Witnesses: John S. Simonson, Joseph Work, Joseph
                        L. Bowman. Owned mills and land in 
                            Illinois
                         Grant (ibid., 417-22).
               
                  Staley (or Statey), John. Will dated August 3, 1831; probated March 30,
                        1832. Heirs: son, Eli (given lands in 
                            Ohio
                        ); Cornelius Burkshire; daughter-in-law, Polly Staley, wife of Jacob Staley,
                        de-ceased, for her children. Witnesses: Thomas Wilson, John Weathers, Isaac Cox. James Ridge
                        appointed administrator (ibid., 422-23).
               
                  Roe, William. Administrator, Lewis Fouts, appointed April 25, 1832. Bond,
                        $6000. Securities: Thomas Dougan, Christopher Cole (ibid., 423-24).
               
                  Allen, Eleazer. Will dated March 6, 1832; probated June 9, 1832. Heirs:
                        wife, Elizabeth; sons, Samuel, Archibald, George, Stephen; daughters, — Huff, Lucinda
                        Smith, Anna Musick (?), Celesta Allen. Executor: Bennet Nugent. Witnesses: Bennet Nugent, Isaac
                        Slider (ibid., 424-25).
               
                  Daily, Jacob. Will dated June 10, 1829; probated July 20, 1832. Heirs: wife,
                        Isabella; four eldest children, Jacob, Mahala, Philip, Mary Ann; three youngest, Elizabeth,
                        David, John. Executor: brother, David W. Daily. Witnesses: Christian Crum, John Nusem (ibid., 425-27).
               
                  Wildman, Aaron. Administrator, Zenas K. 
                            Fulton
                        , appointed Au-gust 1, 1832. Bond, $400. Securities: John S. Simonson,
                        James C. 
                            Caldwell
                         (ibid., 427).
               
                  Hall, Peter. Administrator, Asa Glover, appointed September 28, 1832. Bond,
                        $400. Securities: Martin Huckleberry, William Reynon (ibid., 428).
               
                  Lutz, David. Will dated August 18, 1832; probated October 9, 1832. Heirs:
                        wife, Catherine; sons, George, Henry, John, David; daughters, Catherine, Elizabeth. Executors:
                        sons, Henry and John. Witnesses: Daniel McGrady, William [illeg.] (ibid.,
                        428-30).
               
               
                  Espy, Hugh. Administrators, Sarah and John Espy, appointed November 12, 1832
                            (ibid., 431).
               
                  Gibson, Burrel. Administrator, Keziah Gibson, appointed November 29, 1832.
                        Bond, $600. Securities: John Williams, John Jackson (ibid., 431).
               
                  Watson, Francis. Administrators, Cornelius and Alexander Watson, appointed
                        December 18, 1832. Bond, $400. Securities: Thomas Hutchison, Richard Hawkins (ibid., 431-32).
               
                  Bottorff, George. Administrator, Henry Bottorff, appointed January 21, 1833.
                        Bond, $600. Security, William Bottorff (ibid., 432).
               
                  Lane, William. Administrator, Mary E. Lane, appointed January 2, 1833. Bond,
                        $400. Security, Stephen Henley (ibid., 432).
               
                  Rodgers, James. Administrator, Moses Rodgers, appointed February 20, 1833.
                        Bond, $400. Security, Thomas Rodgers (ibid., 433).
               
                  Hiltibiddle, Peter. Administrator, Rosanna Hiltibiddle, appointed March 26,
                        1833. Bond, $600. Securities: Jacob and John Hiltibiddle (ibid.,
                        433).
               
                  Cravens, Samuel. Will dated March 7, 1833; probated [not given]. Heirs:
                        wife, Mary; sons, James M. (youngest), John C., Samuel M., William C.; daughters, Jane Fisler,
                        Mary A. Mathews (?) Elizabeth and Martha Ann Cravens. Executor: wife. Witnesses: Thomas Stevens,
                        Anthony Kelley (ibid., 433-35).
               
                  Howk, Isaac. Administrator, Elvira Howk, widow, appointed June 12, 1833.
                        Bond, $4000. Securities: Charles Dewey, John Austin, John Shelby (ibid., 435).
               
                  Loughery, Newton. Will dated April 14, 1831; probated July 9, 1833. Heirs:
                        wife, Margaret, and any children that may be born. Executor: wife. Witnesses: John Douthitt, J.
                        C. 
                            Caldwell
                        . Codicil dated February 4, 1832, says he now has son, five months old. Wife to be
                        sole guardian of son (ibid., 435-36).
               
                  McCalley, John. Administrator, Eli McCalley, appointed July 16, 1833. Bond,
                        $1000. Security, George Carr (ibid., 437).
               
                  Slider, Richard. Administrators, Margaret, John, and James Slider, appointed
                        August 5, 1833. Bond, $1000. Securities: James Sharp, Joshua Thompson (ibid., 437).
               
                  Kisler, Solomon. Administrator, Andrew Giltner, appointed Au-gust 8, 1833.
                        Bond, $600. Securities: Dennis Cain, C. Cole (ibid., 438).
               
                  Langford, Benjamin. Administrator, Harris Smith, appointed Au-gust 13, 1833.
                        Bond, $1000. Securities: Samuel Reynolds, James A. Randall (ibid.,
                        438).
               
                  Robinett, Enoch. Administrator, Enos Copple, appointed August 16, 1833.
                        Bond, $1000. Securities: James Robertson, Andrew Eruman (?) (ibid.,
                        439).
               
                  Giles, Henry. Administrator, Joseph Robinson appointed Au-gust 28, 1833.
                        Bond, $1200. Security, Jacob Fisher (ibid., 439).
               
                  Rodgers, Andrew. Administrator, Patrick Welch, appointed August 24, 1833.
                        Bond, $800. Security, John Denny (ibid., 440).
               
                  Peyton, Micajah. Administrators, Christian and Lorenzo Peyton, appointed
                        September 24, 1833. Bond, $300 (?). Security, Daniel Peyton (ibid.,
                        440).
               
               
                  Arbuckle, James H. Administrator, Sina Arbuckle, appointed September 2,
                        1833. Bond, $600. Securities: Robert Tilson, William Montgomery (ibid., 441).
               
                  Brinton, Stuart. Administrator, Hannah Brinton, appointed September 4, 1833.
                        Bond, $300. Securities: William Stalworth, John Copple (ibid.,
                        441).
               
                  Overman, Jacob. Administrator, Samuel Ramsey, appointed September 7, 1833.
                        Bond, $400. Securities: John C. Huckleberry, C. Cole (ibid., 442).
               
                  Miller, John, of Utica. Will dated June 17, 1829; probated September 10,
                        1833. Heirs: son, Abraham. Witnesses: John Clark, John Black-burn (ibid.,
                        442-43).
               
                  Bird, Jeremiah. Administrators, Mary Bird and George Swartz, appointed
                        September -, 1833. Bond, $3000. Securities: Christian Swartz, Adam Coons (ibid., 443).
               
                  Pettit, John. Will dated March 6, 1833; probated September 23, 1833. Heirs:
                        wife, Catherine; daughters, Lydia Stover (or Stoner), May Croe (?), Catherine Reed. Executors:
                        Daniel Pettit, William Kirkpatrick. Witnesses: Thomas Rodgers, Samuel Plasket. Pettit died
                        September 6, 1833 (ibid., 443-45).
               
                  Taylor, Levi. Administrator, Moses Rodgers, appointed September 25, 1833.
                        Bond, $200. Securities: Solomon David, John Kelly (ibid.,
                    445-46).
            
         
         
            OF INTEREST TO GENEALOGISTS
            Through the courtesy of Anna Allen Wright, of 
                  Ithaca,
                            New York
               , and Reginald Ray Stuart, of
                    San Leandro, 
                        California
                    , the Indiana Historical Society has received a chart, "Index of Descendants of
                    Hugh McMillen and Lydia South-wick." This includes all data available as of May 15, 1940.
                    It is reproduced by offset process, carries reduced photo-graphs of nearly all persons in the direct
                    line of descent, and is conveniently folded. It is a model which all genealogists will find both
                    interesting and suggestive.—Christopher B. Coleman.
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
