
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 12, Issue 4, pages 287-374. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:12+issue:4+year:1916&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               
                        Monroe County
                     in the Mexican War
            By H. C. DUNCAN
            
            This paper will not discuss the war with Mexico, the cause of the war, its
                    campaigns and results. That is all history and can be found in the many
                    histories of that short but decisive conflict.
            By reason of pressing demands on my time I have not been able to give the subject
                    the time and attention I desired and its importance demanded. I was compelled to
                    depend largely upon the memories of persons then living in which two persons
                    rarely agreed. Time had either obliterated the early impressions or had left
                    them so blurred that the information sought was at least of doubtful
                    authenticity. Within the past few years General Oran Perry, a late adjutant
                    general of the State, has compiled a work on Indiana in the Mexican War which
                    has the general orders, proclamations, etc., of the governor and adjutant
                    general of the State covering that period, together with extracts from the
                    newspapers of the time, giving copies of private letters written from the front
                    to individuals and published in the papers, and from letters written to the
                    papers, but nearly all of these were local, referring only to the particular
                    company and concluding with lengthy contemporaneous letters discussing the
                    conduct of the Second Indiana Regiment at the battle of Buena Vista. It has also
                    the roster of the five 
                  
                     1 Read before the 
                                Monroe County
                             Historical Society, Jan. 13, 1911. Judge Duncan died Jan.
                            30, 1911. See INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY VII, 31.
               
                     regiments furnished by Indiana to the
                    Mexican War, together with the mounted riflemen. There is but little in these
                    except to show the time of muster in and out, deaths, discharges and desertions,
                    and nothing showing the residence of the individual soldier.2 In fact, the opportunities for getting information with reference to the
                    particular part played by 
                        Monroe county
                     men in that campaign with all it accomplished, with what it added
                    in wealth and numbers to 
                        United States
                    , are indeed meagre. At that time the special correspondent had not
                    been discovered, the modern newspaper had not been developed and there is
                    nothing to which we can go except the ill-kept records and the memories of old
                    people. The former is never of interest, the latter uncertain.
            On May 13, 1846, President Polk approved the Act of Congress declaring war with
                    Mexico and calling for 50,000 volunteers to serve for one year, or during the
                    war, and appropriating $10,000,000 for defraying its expenses. On May
                    16, 1846, the secretary of war called on the governor of Indiana for three
                    regiments of infantry or riflemen, practically 3,000 men, as its quota. On the
                    22nd of May Governor James Whitcomb issued his proclamation calling for
                    companies to be raised, each company to report its organization to him as soon
                    as filled and the officers selected, to march to 
                        New Albany
                     preparatory to organizing into regiments and to moving on to
                    Mexico, saying the communication from 
                        Washington
                    , calling for the volunteers was dated "the 16th and was
                    received late last evening." This you will see was before the days of
                    telegraph or fast mail and required five days to reach 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 
                        Washington
                    , and then got there "late in the evening."
            The order of the adjutant general, accompanying the governor's message
                    goes into very great details of the organization of the troops. It limited each
                    company to eighty privates, four corporals, four sergeants, two lieutenants and
                    one captain. It did not authorize anyone to raise a company, but promised that
                    after a company was filled there should be an election for all of the officers
                    from captain down which 
                  
                     2It would be a valuable contribution to State
                            History it some competent person in each county which sent soldiers to
                            the Mexican War would do what the author has done in this
                                paper.–ED.
               
                     should be certified to the governor who
                    would issue commissions to the commissioned officers.
            At that time Indiana was without any military organization. There had been no war
                    since that of 1812. The country was new, everybody was engaged in subduing the
                    wilderness and in other peaceful pursuits. Peace reigned throughout the country.
                    The old days of militia muster had passed and there was no military
                    establishment from which to draw or around which the military spirit, could
                    concentrate. So far as Indiana was concerned the military organization must be
                    built from the ground up. As soon as the governor's proclamation
                    calling for troops was received at 
                        Bloomington
                    , recruiting began. Lieutenant Governor Paris Dunning, James S.
                    Hester, Willis A. Gorman and John M. Sluss all had military aspirations and
                    entered into the work of recruiting with energy and enthusiasm. By the 15th of
                    June the full company had been recruited; an election of officers was held and
                    John M. Sluss was elected captain, John Eller, first lieutenant; Aquilla Rogers,
                    second lieutenant, and Thomas Rogers, third leiutenant. The regulation made no
                    provision for a third lieutenant, but nearly all the companies elected one and I
                    have not been able to learn their duties or what became of them. The company was
                    recruited and organized, reported to the governor and commissions received, and
                    the company was ready to march in twenty-four days from the time the
                    governor's proclamation was issued. When it is considered there was
                    no telegraph nor telephone, that mail came only by stage which took a whole day
                    from Blooming-ton to 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; that the stage made only about two trips a week, it will be
                    understood that the company was recruited and organized in a remarkably short
                    space of time. On the 15th of June, 1846, the company started to the front.
                    While the company was being recruited the ladies of 
                        Bloomington
                     bought the silk and with their own hands made a flag for
                    presentation. This was presented to the company by Miss Sarah E. Markle, late
                    the wife of our honored and esteemed fellow-townsman, William F. Browning.
                    Fortunately the speech of presentation has been preserved and is as follows:
            "Gentlemen of the 
                        Monroe
                     Guards: On behalf of the ladies of 
                        Monroe County
                    , I present to you this flag, and with it their warmest applause  for the choice you have made. You are about
                    to sacrifice the comforts to which you have been accustomed, to undergo and
                    endure the privations of a soldiers' life, and to exchange your
                    peaceful and happy homes with their cheerful firesides for the field of battle
                    and camp life. Yet in this there is no cause for regret. You make the sacrifice
                    not at the call of a despot nor to satisfy a criminal ambition, but in the name
                    of that beloved liberty which is dearer to you and to us than life. Your choice
                    is that of patriotic, brave men, and as such we honor it and you. And while you
                    are lighting the battles of our beloved country for liberty, thereby endangering
                    your lives, we shall wait with impatience for the glad tidings of your welfare
                    and success. A portion of the glory achieved by you will be reflected upon the
                    thousands who are here today to say goodbye and to bid you Godspeed and to
                    pledge you our prayers and good wishes for the glorious triumph of this flag
                    and' of our country.
            "Take this flag as the emblem of liberty and union and may its presence
                    ever be the true emblem of the downfall of the enemies of American
                    freedom."
            It is not certain just where the presentation took place. One who was present
                    says that it was in front of the Butler Corner, now the Bowles Hotel. Another
                    who was also present, says that it was on the common just east of the Christian
                    church. Mr. Markle, the father of Miss Markle, lived in the two story, hewed log
                    house in which Elias Able died, at the southeast corner of Rogers and Seventh
                    streets. The departure of this company was a sad day for 
                        Bloomington
                    . Many of the best young men were going to a foreign land, to an
                    inhospitable climate, to endure the hardships of a military campaign. They were
                    to go to 
                        New Albany
                     where they would be organized in regiments. There was no railroad
                    and the farmers of the community gave a lift with wagons and teams. Our old
                    friend, Esquire William L. Adams, was then a young man of seventeen and at the
                    time was working for Isaac Buskirk, who lived near Mt. Gilead church on the
                    Unionville road. He had two boys in the company and sent a wagon which Esquire
                    Adams drove. John Whisenand, Isaac Whisenand, James Storms, David Rader and
                    Joseph Dear-man all sent wagons. The line of march was down Walnut street on to
                    the 
                        Salem
                     road, past Fairfax, where the company camped the first night, on
                    through Heltonsville, Lees-ville and Sarem to 
                        New Albany
                     which was reached on the third day. The company went into camp
                    there and became Company A of the Third regiment, commanded by Colonel  James H. Lane of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , afterwards a major general in the Civil War and a 
                        United States
                     senator from the State of 
                        Kansas
                    . At that time the science of war had not advanced to its present
                    efficiency. The volunteer army of this State was organized on a decidedly
                    democratic basis. Both the field and line officers were elected by the men of
                    the regiment, the staff officers were appointed by the President and the
                    non-commissioned staff by the colonel of the regiment. While the company was the
                    actual unit in the Mexican war, it was designated by name. Each company had a
                    name and carried it with it into history. The men were not known as members of a
                    regiment or brigade, but of a certain named company. Thus Captain
                    Sluss's company was the "
                        Monroe
                     Guards," the company from Lawrence county, the
                    "Lawrence Grays," the Brown county company, "Brown
                    County Blues," the 
                        Greene county
                     company, "
                        Greene County
                     Volunteers," etc.
            The men furnished their own clothing, although subsequently they were reimbursed
                    by the government. This company got its uniforms at 
                        New Albany
                    , which consisted of a gray cashmere sack coat with black velvet
                    stripes up the front, pants of the same material with black velvet stripes up
                    the legs, broad brim, gray hat with the brim turned up at the side. By an order
                    from the ordinance office at 
                        Washington
                    , the Indiana troops were to be supplied at 
                        Baton Rouge
                     with musketry and accoutrements, forty cartridges and two flints
                    for each musket. The old muskets issued were pretty crude. They were smooth
                    bored with flint locks and muzzle loaders. The cartridges were hand made and
                    consisted of one large ball and three buck shot.
            Of course there was great enthusiasm manifested during the organization of the
                    company. The military spirit was thoroughly aroused. A desire to march into the
                    enemy's country and to resent the insults to the flag were manifested
                    on all sides. Some of the volunteers in their fiery zeal while on the streets of 
                        Bloomington
                     delighted to shoot down imaginary Mexicans who might be straying
                    into the interior. Two of these blood-thirsty ones, who delighted in this
                    harmless but appalling pastime, after marching to 
                        New Albany
                     and seeing the probabilities of war, remembered the helpless  condition of loved ones at home, cried and
                    begged so piteously to be returned that Captain Siuss permitted them to go.
            This company was mustered into the 
                        United States
                     service by Colonel Churchill of the regular army on June 22, 1846,
                    and on the 8th or 9th of July took a steamboat for 
                        New Orleans
                    , where it landed on the battlefield just below the city on the
                    15th, and was immediately transferred to ocean vessels and started to Point
                    Isabella at the mouth of the Rio Grande, at which point the boat arrived in
                    three days, when a storm came up which blew the vessel out to sea where it
                    remained eight days, buffeting the waves. Nearly everybody on board suffered
                    from sea-sickness, but the vessel finally landed in safety. I have not been able
                    to get the name of this ship. The regiment was in Taylor's army,
                    participated in the battle of Buena Vista and companies A and B under the direct
                    command of Major Gorman brought on and closed the battle.
            After the expiration of its term of enlistment the company came home by steamboat
                    to 
                        Madison
                    , then by the old 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     road to 
                        Columbus
                     and from there marched to 
                        Bloomington
                    . On its return a big barbecue was given in Dunn's Woods,
                    now the College Campus. Speeches were made. Every man was made a hero and a
                    general glorious time was had. Long trenches were dug in which great quantities
                    of wood were placed which was fired. Cattle and sheep, furnished by the farmers
                    of the community, were butchered and barbecued over the roasting coals.
            The members of this company were: John M. Sluss captain, Henry R. Seall first
                    lieutenant, Allen Crocker second lieutenant, Isaac S. Buskirk first sergeant,
                    William C. Foster sergeant, James Frits sergeant, Edward J. Pullen sergeant,
                    Robert K. Nelson corporal, Daniel Iseminger corporal, Dudley Rogers corporal,
                    Richard Radcliff corporal, William B. Crocker musician, E. F. Harney musician.
                    Privates: Owen Adkins, Oliver Adkins, John M. Armstrong, W. G. Applegate,
                    Benjamin Bruner, William Boyd, William Campbell, James A. Dale, James I. Davis,
                    Christopher C. Fleener, Garlin F. Fleener, James Fleener, John B. Givens, Robert
                    W. Graham, William H. Harvey, Adam Hunter, William L. Har-desty, Samuel G.
                    Jamison, William Johnson, John Knight, John 
                    B. Langewell, Thomas Langewell, Isaac S. Leabo, James Little, William Lamkins,
                    William J. Lake, John Martin, Elijah Morgan, Thomas McNaught, Trayless Mize,
                    James Matlock, John Nuckles, John Osborne, Joseph W. Pullen, John Phillips,
                    William Rowe, Addison C. Smith, Sylvester Stongar, Strother Stongar, Robert
                    Strong, Leonidas P. Skirvin, Simpson S. Skirvin, John H. Strain, L. R. Thompson,
                    Austin Truit, Samuel S. Taylor, Solon 0. Whitson, Numa M. Whitson, Richard G.
                    Walker, Morris L. Baker, George A. Buskirk. Privates discharged: Joseph Thomas,
                    Solomon Langewell, Solomon May, John A. Dale, William McPhetridge, Phillip H.
                    Smith, William Cox, Samuel Sexton.
            In the organization there was considerable rivalry for position. Governor
                    Dunning, Captain John M. Sluss, Colonel James S. Hester and Captain Frank
                    Ottwell all wanted to be captain. Sluss was elected. Governor Dunning got an
                    appointment as sutler and none of the others went. Willis A. Gorman was a
                    popular young Democratic politician, who had been a member of the legislature,
                    enlisted among the first, was accused of military aspirations which he denied,
                    took the position of orderly sergeant and in the organization of the regiment
                    was elected major. He served with great distinction, before the expiration of
                    his term came home and was elected colonel of the Fourth regiment. He afterwards
                    was elected to Congress, was appointed governor of 
                        Minnesota
                     territory by President Buchanan, was colonel of the First 
                        Minnesota
                     regiment in the Civil War and got to be a brigadier general.
            Captain John M. Sluss was a ktrge man, a Kentuckian, who had moved here from the
                    Blue Grass part of the State, was an exceedingly popular man, returned and lived
                    to a good old age, honored and respected by everybody as an honest,
                    conscientious, Christian gentleman and a good soldier.
            Lieutenant John Eller was a brother of Henry and George Eller, and an uncle of
                    John T. Eller, a very popular man and sheriff of the county at the time he
                    enlisted. He died October 4, 1846. The boat on which his body was being brought
                    home sank in the Mississippi river July 29, 1847, just
                    below 
                        Baton Rouge
                     and his body was never recovered. Henry R. Seal  was promoted to first lieutenant from the ranks. He
                    was subsequently a merchant at 
                        Ellettsville
                    . Aquilla Rogers was a second lieutenant but resigned. Thomas Rogers
                    was promoted from third lieutenant, died May, 1847, and Allen Crocker was
                    promoted to second lieutenant.
            A greats many of this company subsequently acquired considerable distinction both
                    in military and civil life. Isaac Buskirk, who succeeded Colonel Gorman as
                    orderly sergeant, was a captain in the Tenth Indiana cavalry. Edward J. Pullen,
                    a duty sergeant, was a colonel in the Confederate army. Daniel Iseminger, a
                    corporal, was a captain in an 
                        Iowa
                     regiment and was killed at the Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     in command of the regiment.
            Private John M. Armstronga was a captain of Company K of the Fourteenth Indiana
                    and served during the Civil War. James I. Davis, a private, was the first man
                    wounded at the Battle of Buena Vista. He lived south of town near Smith-ville
                    and was the father of Mrs. John P. Foster and died within the last few years.
                    Private E. E. Heney was a colonel of an 
                        Iowa
                     regiment in the Civil War. Private Thomas Mc-Naught was colonel of
                    the Fifty-ninth Indiana in the Civil War, was breveted brigadier general and now
                    lives in 
                        Spencer
                    , a hale and hearty octogenarian. Austin Truitt at the Battle of
                    Buena Vista, tore the flag which had been presented to the company by Miss
                    Markle, from the staff, stuffed it in his bosom and carried it back seven miles
                    to Saltillo. George A. Buskirk was a prominent man in this community, was common
                    pleas judge, state agent, member of the legislature, founded the First National
                    Bank of 
                        Bloomington
                    , acquired the greatest fortune of any man in the county at that
                    time and died at the age of forty-five. Private Morris L. Baker was captain of
                    Company A of the Third 
                        Iowa
                     cavalry in the Civil War, serving over two years. At the Battle of
                    Pea Ridge in 
                        Arkansas
                     he was ordered to charge with his own and another company, went
                    into ambush by which his command suffered terribly. Captain Baker and General
                    Mc-Naught are the only living members of the 
                        Monroe
                     Guards, who left 
                        Bloomington
                     for Mexico on June 15, 1846. John Service, Israel Winkler, Robert
                    Black, John Turner, Lieut. John Eller, John Moore, Robert A. Givens, Benjamin
                    Adkins,  Lieut. Thomas Rogers, and Randolph
                    Sloan died of disease. William B. Holland, James M. Buskirk and David I. Stout
                    were killed at the Battle of Buena Vista.
            On the 19th of April, 1847, the secretary of war called for additional volunteers
                    "to serve during the War with Mexico unless sooner
                    discharged," of which one regiment was assigned to Indiana. On the 24th
                    of the same month Governor Whitcomb issued his call "to the brave,
                    enterprising and patriotic citizens of our State to respond to the
                    call." By instructions of the adjutant general the companies, as soon
                    as organized were to report to "Old Fort Clark" near 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . Immediately upon receipt of the governor's call the
                    organization of another company was begun in this county which was completed and
                    reported to the governor on May 30, 1847. The company was named the
                    "Rough and Ready Guards," was officered by Captain Daniel
                    Lunderman, William McPhetridge, first lieutenant, Barton Acuff and Thomas A.
                    Reynolds, second lieutenants, and became Company G of the Fourth Indiana,
                    commanded by Colonel Willis A. Gorman. I can find very little of the details of
                    the organization of this company. It was presented with a flag by the ladies of 
                        Bloomington
                    , but who made the presentation speech, I am unable to say. The
                    company, after being organized, marched to 
                        Columbus
                    , took a train there to 
                        Madison
                     and presumably went from there by boat to 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . On the 28th of June, 1847, the Fourth Indiana left 
                        Jeffersonville
                     for 
                        New Orleans
                     on three steamboats, Captain Lunderman's company going
                    on the steamboat "
                        Franklin
                    ." The regiment went from 
                        New Orleans
                     to the mouth of the Rio Grande and was a part of General
                    Scott's army and with him went to the City of Mexico. The regiment
                    returned to 
                        Madison
                    , was mustered out July 16, 1848, came by rail to 
                        Columbus
                     and then marched home on foot. A list of the men in this company is
                    as follows: Daniel Lunderman captain, William McPhetridge first lieutenant,
                    Barton Acuff second lieutenant, Thomas A. Reynolds second lieutenant, David
                    Skillman first sergeant, James Eson sergeant, Charles G. Corr sergeant,
                    Archibald F. Ump-staddt sergeant, Truman Buckles corporal, Henry Baugh corporal,
                    John W. Day corporal, John Sullivan corporal, Columbus C. Mershon drummer,
                    Robert Laudrum fifer. Privates:  Edward
                    Armstrong, George Armstrong, Henry A. Bailey, Jackson Bales, James Bales,
                    Stephen Bales, John Baugh, James Bean, George H. Butler, Morgan Carter, John
                    Chaffee, Lewis Crarey, Robert Daniels, James R. Dearmin, Joel Deckard, Jonas
                    Devenport, Jesse Elsett, John A. Garrett, John Glessner, Abraham Goodnight,
                    Elijah Havvons, Silas B. Hovions, William Hovions, Valentine Heans, William
                    Hunt, Daniel Jacobs, John Jones, Wiley Jackson, Stephen Lindley, George
                    Marshall, William Mattock, John McWaught, Andrew J. Mefford, John Miller,
                    Alexander Moberly, Thomas Pickle, James Richardson, Young I. Robinson, Harmon I.
                    Rockett, Hamilton Slough, Daniel Spencer, Lawson Summitt, George Smith, Caleb H.
                    Stone, James Thompson, William H. Virt, James M. York, David Wooster, John
                    McClure, Samuel Bon-sall, C. S. Chipman, John Neal, Jonathan Bruison, Benjamin
                    F. Welts.
            No man of this company was killed in battle although several died of disease. The
                    deaths were William Dawson, Isaac Peterson, William Blair, Hiram Carter,
                    jSolomon JJ_ Grunt, Joel Hancock and Henry B. Wilson.
            Captain Lunderman was a brother-in-law of Colonel Gorman. Both married daughters
                    of Ellis Stone, a pioneer of 
                        Monroe county
                    , who lived in a brick house just south of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Southern Railroad about two miles west of the city. He there owned
                    a large body of land and raised a large family. Caleb H. Stone, a private of
                    Lunderman's company, was a son of Ellis Stone and a brother-in-law of
                    both Colonel Gorman and Captain Lunderman. In the early fifties Captain
                    Lunderman took a body of men from this vicinity and went overland to 
                        California
                    , taking with him a drove of cattle. He was a captain of the
                    Twenty-second Indiana regiment in the Civil War, for years a justice of the
                    peace in this city, living on College avenue just north of Third street.
            William McPhetridge, first lieutenant, had been a private in Captain
                    Sluss's company, was discharged, came home and assisted Lunderman in
                    raising his company. Barton Acuff lived and died in 
                        Ellettsville
                    . Charles G. Corr, a duty sergeant, was for a long time a prominent
                    citizen of 
                        Washington
                     township and lived and died a few years ago in this city. George H.
                    Butler, a private, was a captain in the Civil War.  I have not been able to learn of a single man of
                    this company now living. After making very exhaustive investigation and making
                    many inquiries of the old citizens, I have been unable to learn anything with
                    reference to the circumstances of the organization or anything pertaining to the
                    company, except what I find in print.
            In the spring of 1847 Congress authorized the organization of the 16th Regulars
                    which was almost wholly recruited in this State and in 
                        Kentucky
                    . It was largely a political organization commanded and officered
                    almost wholly by Democratic adherents of President Polk's
                    administration. Company D was recruited largely from this county. James Hughes,
                    afterwards judge of the circuit court, a member of Congress, a judge of the
                    court of claims, and an all around Democratic politician, was first lieutenant,
                    and the officer who did most of the recruiting. Colonel Richard Owen afterwards
                    colonel of the Sixtieth Indiana and from 1863 to 1879 a professor in the State
                    University, was captain of the company. While the company was being recruited,
                    the men boarded at "Bob Farmers" on the south side of the
                    Public Square where the Allen Block now stands. At one time in order to
                    stimulate recruiting Judge Hughes marched the men to Finley's Mill in 
                        Brown county
                    , where they remained about ten days being boarded by the farmers in
                    that locality. The men would be formed in a line, the flag unfurled, the drum
                    beat, the fife played, the men marched and counter-marched, but the military
                    spirit was not. rampant and but few recruits were obtained in that locality.
            The company was filled in about a month, was marched to 
                        Columbus
                    , then taken by rail to 
                        Madison
                    , then by a boat to 
                  Newport, Kentucky
               , where on May 12, 1847, they started to Mexico,
                    going by boat to 
                        New Orleans
                    , then by sailing vessel to the mouth of the Rio Grande and by boat
                    from there to Monterey. Their campaigning was not hard, the most of the time
                    being on detached duty, guarding prisoners. They returned home August 12, 1848.
                    I have not been able to get a list of the men in this command. I have been able
                    to get the names of the following, who, nearly all, lived in Salt Creek and Polk
                    townships: Coleman A. Carter, Jack Wam-pler, Silas D. Chandler, Robert
                    Rutherford, William Rutherford  Elisha
                    Maples, Benjamin McFarland, Calvin McFar-land, Noah Cox, Hiram T. Sherrall,
                    Solomon C. Payne and Jesse Devers; the last was drowned in the Rio Grande.
                    Solomon C. Payne of Paynetown and Hiram T. Sherrall. of Bloom-ington, both
                    veterans of the Civil War, are the only members belonging to that company now
                    known to be living. Dr. Jerry Wooden of Gosport was in the same regiment but in
                    another company.
            Of almost three hmidred men who went from 
                        Monroe county
                     to the Mexican War, I now know of but five men living, General
                    McNaught, Captain M. L. Baker, Solomon C. Payne, Hiram T. Sherrall and 
                        Granville
                     Jackson.
            To me it is sad that these men who left their homes and their firesides to go
                    into a foreign country to an inhospitable climate, to the burning sands of the
                    Rio Grande and Mexico to fight the battles of their country, to maintain the
                    dignity of their flag, whose bravery, sufferings, and fortitude added so much to
                    the material wealth of the country, who by their valor and patriotism added an
                    empire, should almost wholly be forgotten. What would this country have been
                    without the effects of the Mexican War? Gold taken in a single year from the
                    territory acquired by this conflict would many times pay the expense of the
                    short and decisive campaigns.
            It cannot be charged to these men that they went with a mercenary spirit. Their
                    compensation was $7.00 per month. At the time of enlistment they were
                    required to furnish their own clothing with the promise that it would
                    subsequently be repaid. Much has been written of the glories and achievements of
                    the soldiers in the War with Mexico. O'Harra, a Mexican soldier from 
                        Kentucky
                    , wrote the immortal lines which will be found in enduring form in
                    every national cemetery throughout the Union: 
                        On fame's eternal battlefield, Their silent tents are spread,
                            While glory guards with solemn round, The bivouac of the dead.
                    
            
         
         
         
            Development of the City School System of Indiana–1851-1880
                    (Concluded)
            HAROLD LITTELL, A.B. Logansport, Ind.
            THE PROBLEM
                    OF GRADING
            
            Primarily the thing which differentiated a majority of the city or town systems
                    of schools from the rural schools was that the former were graded while the
                    latter were not. Although all advantages existed in grading pupils, and there
                    was no argument against it, yet this system, in several places, had its struggle
                    along with the other phases of educational development. People looked upon it as
                    a fad; they would not hear to such a thing being instituted in their buildings.
                    Another class considered it expensive. Where two or three teachers had
                    previously handled eighty or ninety pupils without gradation, it would take six
                    or eight teachers to handle the same number after they were classified. The
                    first objection was easy to overcome. It was only a question of educating the
                    people up to it. The second was a more diffcult problem, the solving of which
                    took time. Many places desired graded schools long before they were able to
                    finance them.
            The nongraded school, which has been referred to several times, needs but a word
                    of explanation. In such a school was usually, though not always, but one or
                    perhaps two teachers. The rooms contained all classes of pupils, from the
                    entering age of six, or even lower, to those who had passed twenty-one. There
                    was no division line that marked one grade from another, the big boys and girls
                    going into the class which suited their size and age. In some cases, the parent
                    dictated the class to which his child should belong by sending the latter to
                    school with a book and telling the teacher to let his child use it. This was
                    done regardless of whether the child could master it or not. It was the way of
                    promotion. The school situation presented a problem which the teacher had to
                    work out the best he could with the material  he had to work with. As a rule very little was done. A child on leaving
                    school at the end of the year did not know where he would belong the following
                    year. A change of teachers might demote him or promote him, just as the teacher
                    felt about the matter. If a teacher was sufficiently well educated to draw any
                    line of distinction between his pupils on that basis, the subject considered
                    first of all was "figuring." The power to use numbers was
                    considered about all that was worth while among the patrons.
            In schools of earlier origin, the instruction was given to each individual
                    separately. Usually there were as many text books as pupils, if each was
                    fortunate enough to own one. Spelling was given out to all the school at the
                    same time, standing in a row, but the words were selected to suit the ability of
                    the child.
            Such schools were largely dominated by the influential patrons, whose children,
                    as a rule, received most of the teacher's attention, and consequently
                    progressed fairly well. The others had to get along the best way they could.
            In 
                        Salem
                    , in 1857, a school was organized under H. D. Wilson. This school
                    was not graded, and there was no prospect of the inauguration of such a system.
                    A majority of the people strongly oposed it. At 
                        Muncie
                    , the same year, conditions were even worse. There were two public
                    schools in the city, both failures, not on account of any fault of the teachers,
                    but because all the children in the town, of every grade, were crowded into the
                    small school houses, rendering it impossible for any teacher to effect an
                    organization that would work to advantage.
            As late as 1867, 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , with two school buildings, had not yet instituted the graded
                    system. It was during the fall of that year that the trustees decided to place
                    their schools on that basis. In the same year, the following report came from
                    Bluffton:
            "The schools of this place have never been graded, the citizens claiming
                    the inestimable right to send to the school which they prefer. As a consequence
                    of this there are as many separate schools as houses, namely, three."
            In 
                        Rochester
                     (1867) with two hundred and fifty pupils the schools had not yet
                    been graded. It was during that year  that
                    the trustees, examiners, and patrons, after a consultation, decided to introduce
                    the system the following year. 
                        Logansport
                    , in 1867, was another city which had as many separate schools as it
                    had houses. Each was independent of the other, and no system of grading was
                    maintained anywhere. Two years later (1869) the schools were all graded and put
                    in a systematic form. Worthington, in 1870, had not yet been incorporated, hence
                    a town school system had not been instituted. The citizens began a movement that
                    year to incorporate, whereby they might be able to levy a local school tax and
                    organize a graded school system. In the same year (1870) 
                        Washington
                     still contented herself with ungraded schools. At that time there
                    were three separate schools working individually and without any system. These
                    drew on the public funds while they lasted, then for the remainder of the year
                    were supported by a few patrons. 
                        Tipton
                     made a start toward gradation in 1870. A movement was started all
                    at once for the betterment of educational conditions in that place. Special
                    taxation, a graded system of schools, uniform textbooks all over the city, and a
                    new school building, all marked a change for the better. 
                        Lebanon
                    , in 1872, had not yet perfected a graded system. Sullivan, in the
                    same year, made provisions for gradation by building a fine school building. It
                    had to do this in order to cope with its neighbors, 
                        Carlisle
                     and Paxton, in the same county, where there were good graded
                    schools. 
                        Danville
                     (1872) had a very poor system of schools. There was no careful
                    grading and no supervision. These latter usually went hand in hand. Up to 1874, 
                        Jeffersonville
                     had a very imperfect system of grading in its schools. An attempt
                    was made to separate the sexes, from the lowest grade up to the high school. In
                    so doing two or three grades of boys, with two teachers, were in one room, and
                    in another room were duplicated grades of girls. This worked very badly. In 1874
                    this custom was abolished, and new ones set up as follows: (1) All pupils were
                    to be graded according to age and advancement, regardless of sex. (2) One grade
                    to each room. (3) One teacher to a grade. Considerable opposition was manifested
                    by the parents, especially in regard to the mixing of sexes, but they soon
                    became perfectly satisfied with the new system. At  Winchester, in 1873, each teacher had from two to
                    three grades. The superintendent, Mr. Ault, did his best to keep the work
                    systematic, and was supported by an earnest corps of teachers. He laid out the
                    month's work for each teacher, and required much oral work done in
                    the primary grades.
            It is seen that in some sections of the State graded schools were several years
                    getting a start. Lack of funds, as has just been pointed out, was the principal
                    reason. Yet, although this condition existed in many places, there were numerous
                    cities and towns which got their schools graded in a very short time after their
                    organization. Such cities had profited by the experience of the private,
                    individual schools before the law gave them the power to establish public
                    institutions. In such places, too, the superintendent was a man of experience
                    and knew the advantages to be gained from a centralized, graded system of
                    schools. In fact this was his business.
            At 
                        Evansville
                    , as early as 1856, the schools were graded closely. The chain of
                    gradation extended from the primary to the high school. At that time the schools
                    were classified into four grades, high school, grammar, intermediate, and
                    primary. By 1860, with the erection of a large building, the system was still
                    further extended. 
                        Lafayette
                    , in 1856, had a similar system of gradation, the primary,
                    secondary, intermediate, and grammar departments constituting their complete
                    cycle at that time. 
                        Richmond
                    , under the superintend-ency of J. Hurty, had, by 1856, a good
                    graded system of schools, although the buildings were crowded. As early as that
                    date the school board hired no teacher who had not had some professional
                    training. The schools were all classified and graded, and a careful system of
                    discipline and instruction was maintained.
            By 1857 the schools of 
                        Indianapolis
                     had assumed a place among the best in the State. The grading was as
                    perfect as the time would permit, and the course of study laid down in each
                    department was pursued to the letter. Superintendent George B. Stone devoted
                    almost his entire time to the matter of supervising his teachers. The people
                    were proud of their graded system. There were five departments, primary,
                    secondary, intermediate, grammar, and high school. 
                        Shelbyville
                    , in 1859, had a unique system of gradation in its  schools. Superintendent W. T. Hatch gave out the
                    following statement in February of that year:
            "Our Grammar School lias just closed its first session for 1858-59. We
                    have had on our register over 400 pupils In the English department, which
                    consists of seven grades, and about 50 pupils in the German department under a
                    native German teacher. Over 50. also, of our English pupils have been studying
                    German. Our school is in a more flourishing condition now than ever
                    before."
            By 1862, 
                        Muncie
                    , under the leadership of Superintendent Richards, had its schools
                    systematically graded. The State superintendent at that time reported the
                    schools among the best arranged in the State. 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , in 1866, had 2,050 pupils enrolled in its schools. They were
                    classified under the head of primary, secondary, intermediate, grammar, and high
                    school. The following table taken from the city superintendent's
                    report for December, 1865, will give an idea of the systematic arrangement of
                    grades maintained: 
                  
                     Schools
                     Number Enrolled
                     Average Dally Attendance
                     Number of Seats
                  
                  
                     West Division–
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Grammar
                     83
                     63
                     92
                  
                  
                     Intermediate
                     92
                     70
                     92
                  
                  
                     Senior Secondary
                     80
                     69
                     58
                  
                  
                     Junior Secondary
                     99
                     68
                     54
                  
                  
                     Senior Primary
                     94
                     65
                     54
                  
                  
                     Junior Primary
                     105
                     88
                     54
                  
                  
                     Boys' Primary
                     134
                     94
                     72
                  
                  
                     Girls' Primary
                     111
                     80
                     72
                  
                  
                     East Division–
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Grammar
                     39
                     34
                     60
                  
                  
                     Intermediate
                     54
                     36
                     72
                  
                  
                     Senior Secondary
                     75
                     50
                     72
                  
                  
                     Junior Secondary
                     103
                     76
                     60
                  
                  
                     Boys' Primary
                     116
                     88
                     66
                  
                  
                     Girls' Primary
                     102
                     73
                     71
                  
               
            
            Another table from the same school gives one further evidence that they kept
                    relatively close watch over the subjects themselves. Numbers engaged in the
                    various studies were reported as follows: 
                  
                     Reading
                     1580
                  
                  
                     Spelling
                     1426
                  
                  
                     Writing
                     1426
                  
                  
                     Arithmetic
                     917
                  
                  
                     Geography
                     809
                  
                  
                     Grammar
                     158
                  
                  
                     Drawing
                     16
                  
                  
                     Composition
                     587
                  
                  
                     Declamations, 1747 (included High School).
                     
                  
               
            
            
            Attica, in 1872, had developed a system of gradation. The children of the first
                    and second primary grades had their work so arranged that they were kept in
                    school but three hours daily. This is quite in harmony with the plan of today,
                    1912. 
                        Elkhart
                    , in 1871, had a very good system of organized schools. The grades
                    below the high school were divided into two classes of four grades each.
                    Grammar, A, B, C, and D; primary, A, B, C, and D. The system of grading at 
                        Cambridge City
                     in 1874 marked another deviation from those already given. The
                    course of study for the schools of this city comprised nine grades, exclusive of
                    a three-year course in the high school. This was a year more than the other
                    cities allotted to grade work.
            In order to get an idea of what the cities did in developing their systems, the
                    following table is given for 1871. The data is for the month of September of
                    that year: 
                  
                     Name
                     Number Enrolled
                     No. Days School.
                     Average No. Belonging
                     Average Daily Attendance
                     Percent of Attendance
                     Number Cases of Tardiness
                     Number Neither Tardy Nor Absent
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                            
                     5359*
                     
                     18
                     4874
                     4691
                     92.2
                     613
                     2751
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Muncie
                                
                            
                     652
                     –
                     585
                     510
                     88.7
                     –
                     127
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Richmond
                                
                            
                     1534
                     181/2
                     1391
                     1315
                     94.
                     170
                     599
                  
                  
                     Seymour
                     464
                     20
                     408
                     376
                     92.
                     116
                     119
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Wabash
                                
                            
                     555
                     18
                     480
                     453
                     94.3
                     12
                     244
                  
                  
                     Attica
                     400
                     17
                     337
                     306
                     90.
                     18
                     109
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Evansville
                                
                            
                     3577
                     20
                     3453
                     2320
                     96.1
                     716
                     1974
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Lawrenceburg
                                
                            
                     575
                     18
                     496
                     473
                     95.2
                     21
                     394
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Elkhart
                                
                            
                     599
                     20
                     517
                     491
                     95.
                     41
                     214
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Franklin
                                
                            
                     604
                     20
                     546
                     531
                     96.4
                     35
                     358
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Noblesville
                                
                            
                     370
                     10
                     361
                     349
                     97.
                     49
                     275
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Princeton
                                
                            
                     445
                     17
                     401
                     377
                     94.
                     297
                     100
                  
                  
                     Edinburg
                     412
                     –
                     396
                     389
                     98.2
                     53
                     251
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Frankfort
                                
                            
                     369
                     20
                     353
                     319
                     91.
                     171
                     109
                  
                  
                     
                                
                           
                              * Includes high school
                                        pupils.
                        
                            
                  
               
            
            In conclusion, it is seen that the matter of organizing a graded school was not
                    an easy matter, for the following reasons: 
                  The people had to be educated up to it.
                  The graded system was more expensive than the ungraded system.
                  
                  It required a skillful superintendent to make grading worth while.
                  Grading was not uniform.
               
            
            Yet the system was begun and well worked out in some places. It was the graded
                    system that paved the way for the success of a more advanced school, which is
                    discussed in the following chapter. This was the high school.
            THE HIGH SCHOOL
            
            After the adoption of the graded systems in the town and city schools, the next
                    step was the high school. In some places the latter was organized along with the
                    graded elementary school, so that the two went hand in hand. In other localities
                    the high school had to come later.
            The questions naturally arise, why did the people want the high school at that
                    time? What was its function? Did it serve its purpose? The answer to the first
                    question can best be answered by a statement from the report of the board of
                    trustees of the 
                        Lafayette
                     public schools in 1856:
            "The trustees hope that the public spirit and parental affection of our
                    citizens will ere long demand the establishment of a high school endowed with
                    every faculty for an advanced or collegiate education, so that the children of
                    our city may be kept under the influence of good examples and just restraints of
                    home until prepared to take their parts in the active duties of life. What
                    should be, can be done, and when accomplished no one would desire to return to
                    the old paths."
            Had this ambition been realized the high school would have become the
                    "People's College" in reality and not in name only.
            For the first few years of its existence the high school course was directed
                    toward the training of teachers. To do this a normal course was instituted and
                    work along that line given, as will be shown later. From this one would judge
                    that the age of the average high school pupil was much higher than today (1912).
                    This was true.
            
               
                        Richmond
                     started her public high school in 1856, amidst embarrassments of
                    every kind, the chief of which was in not knowing just what to do. The high
                    school at that time was composed of young men and women, many of whom had
                    attended academies and colleges previously. The normal class  was composed of fifty-six pupils, many of whom had
                    taught during the summer. These students were taught matters pertaining to
                    practical teaching. The whole enrollment for the high school was 124. This was
                    rather large when compared with 
                        Indianapolis
                     for the same year. The latter had a high school enrollment of 98,
                    but their high school system was placed on a firm basis from the very beginning.
                    Hence what it lacked in quantity it made up in quality. The Supreme Court
                    decision of 1857 completely disorganized the 
                        Indianapolis
                     high school, which was progressing nicely under Principal W. T.
                    Webster. There being no financial support, Mr. Webster left the State. It was
                    not until 1864, when W. A. Bell, formerly of the second ward grammar school of
                    the city, was.elected principal, that this phase of educational work was offered
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Yet Mr. Bell took up the work as systematically as Mr. Webster had
                    left it. The entrance examinations to the high school were made effective, and
                    in so doing the standard of the school was kept up.
            It is interesting to note that as early as 1875 some cities were alive to present
                    day situations and tried then to correct the existing evils. For example, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , during that year it was found that less than fifty per cent of
                    those entering high school continued until the third year. To correct this evil
                    a two year course was organized. The purpose was to fit the pupil for future
                    life work as well as they possibly could. This two year course was as follows:
            FIRST YEAR: Algebra. Arithmetic (reviewed),
                    English, Geography (reviewed), General History, Free Hand Drawing, Morals,
                    Elocution and Music.
            SECOND YEAR : Plane Geometry, Commercial
                    Arithmetic, Physical Geography, Natural Philosophy, General History,
                    Bookkeeping, Mechanical Drawing, Zoology, and lectures on Commercial Law.
            
               
                        Evansville
                    , by 1856, had its high school organized under B. P. Snow, a
                    graduate of Bowdoin college. During the year 1855-1856 fifty-one pupils were
                    admitted into the high school. It had an average attendance of 40. Ten years
                    later (1866) the high school was large in numbers, and the course broad,
                    requiring four years for its completion. The course of study offered at that
                    time included among other subjects, algebra, geometry, trigonometry, surveying,
                    Latin through Cicero's  orations,
                    Greek through the reader, chemistry and mental and moral philosophy. In 1868 
                        Evansville
                     completed a new high school building at a cost of
                    $45,000. The high schools of this city progressed steadily.
            In 1860 Anderson had a high school, organized under I. N. Terwilliger as
                    principal. Mr. Terwilliger was a master of his profession, being especially
                    adapted to the teaching of elocution and mental arithmetic. He had also under
                    his care a. promising normal class. This was a sort of a semi-private
                    institution, however, and did not last. It was several years after this before
                    Anderson had a substantial public system.
            
               
                        Madison
                    , from the beginning of 1852, had a good high school, but in trying
                    to be economical as well as educational it starved out its high school work, and
                    by 1857 offered no work above the grammar grade. This, coupled with the
                    "Decision of '57", made a reorganization impossible
                    for several years. All cities suffered the loss of their high schools during
                    this period. They did well to keep a semblance of the grades going. It was not
                    until the early and middle 60's that the high school in general began
                    to take firm root and work on a permanent basis. The following will give an idea
                    of how the school situation was looked upon by the people:
            "We are justly proud of our new high school building and are gratified
                    to be able to chronicle this element of advancement in the material interest of
                    our schools. Though 
                        Madison
                     has not, within the last few years, moved as vigorously as some
                    other cities in the State, it deserves credit for early vigor. It moved
                    vigorously when it was not so popular to be vigorous. It opened its public
                    school in 1852, immediately after the adoption of the new constitution providing
                    for the present system. Under the able superintendency of Charles Barnes, it,
                    for several years, has stood among the first cities in the State, in point of
                    buildings and general efficiency."
            Laporte, in 1867, with a population of 8,000, had developed a high school. That
                    year the city had under construction a $50,000 high school building,
                    which was one of the finest in the State. To insure a greater degree of success
                    in their schools, all applicants to teach in them were required to pass a
                    special examination independent of the regular State examinations.
            Peru, in 1869, had a well organized high school under the  direction of Superintendent D. Eckley Hunter. The
                    important phase of their high school work at that time was the "normal
                    class," whose members were preparing themselves to teach. At that time
                    there were thirteen ladies and four gentlemen taking this work.
            
               
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , in 1869, maintained a high school course which covered a period of
                    three years. At that time there were enrolled in this department 42 boys and 41
                    girls. Three years later, 1872, four girls and one boy constituted the first
                    class to graduate from this high school. The occasion of their graduation was
                    one of great interest. The same year five young ladies were graduated from the
                    high school of 
                        Greensburg
                    . The schools here had been developed under Superintendent C. W.
                    Harvey, to a stage where they compared favorably with the best at that time.
            The practice of co-education was not carried out in all the high schools of the
                    State. This caused an added expense, for in such places two separate schools
                    were maintained, one for the boys and another for the girls. 
                        Knightstown
                    , although only a small place, had the double system in 1872. The
                    State superintendent in commenting upon the situation at the time, said that it
                    was decidedly "old fogy" and with proper supervision these
                    schools could be brought together with mutual benefit and with half the cost.
            
               
                        New Albany
                    , too, maintained separate high schools for girls and boys. In 1874
                    there were enrolled in the female high school 110 pupils; in the male high
                    school 76. Seventeen girls and two boys graduated that year. The reason that
                    only two boys graduated was that the junior class was graduated the year before
                    from a three year course. There were 40 girls and 22 boys admitted to the high
                    schools upon examination at the close of the term. The average age of those
                    admitted was 14½ years.
            
               
                        Jeffersonville
                    , the sister city to 
                        New Albany
                    , had worked up a good system of schools by 1875. At that time there
                    were twenty-four teachers in its schools, besides the superintendent. There were
                    two German and three colored teachers. There were eight grades below the high
                    school, and a four year course in that. In 1875, sixty-three were enrolled in
                    the high school. Latin and German were required, with Greek elective.  The early high school did much to foster
                    interest and bring the people in touch with the school situation.
            
               
                        Franklin
                    , in 1873, had a high school lecture course for the benefit of the
                    library fund. The following lecturers were engaged: Robert Collyer, H. A. Ford,
                    W. H. Milburn, Mrs. Mary Livermore, Daniel Hough, Hon. William Parsons, Thomas
                    Nast, and E. B. Fairfield. It was a success in every way. 
                        Franklin
                     demanded the best of teachers. Out of a corps of nine teachers in
                    their system, four were graduates of the Oswego Normal School, three were
                    graduates of the Indiana State Normal School, and the other two had attended
                    normal schools but had not graduated. This city had one of the best school
                    buildings in the State.
            
               
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , in 1875, had a course of lectures during the term at the rate of
                    two each month. They were very successful. The first three lectures paid for the
                    whole list, ten in number. This insured success to the enterprise and showed
                    what could be done when the proper effort was made. The pupils of this high
                    school during the same year gave a public concert which was quite creditable.
                    Under the direction of Superintendent R. G. Boone, a course of lectures was
                    given at 
                        Frankfort
                     in 1876, for the purpose of raising money with which to purchase a
                    reference library for the school. 
                        New Castle
                     graduated her first class from high school in 1875. One feature of
                    this school was the completeness of the course of study. Mrs. Lois G. Hufford,
                    the principal, held her pupils to a four year course, with Latin and Greek as
                    electives.
            Another feature which existed in the early high school was the training school.
                    It compared very favorably with the "cadet" system employed in
                    some of our cities today (1912).
            
               
                        Logansport
                     had such a system in 1875. At that time Miss Fannie C. Kimber was
                    principal and teacher of methods. Miss Ella Miller was critic teacher. Both were
                    graduates of the Oswego Normal School. Eight pupil teachers were admitted. There
                    were four practice rooms. One-half of the class took methods, while the other
                    half taught under the critic teacher. These pupil teachers received no salary.
                    It was economical for the city as well as advantageous. The amount paid the
                    principal and critic amounted to the same as the salary of the four regular
                    teachers would have been. This allowed them a principal  in the person of the teacher of methods, without
                    extra compensation.
            By 1874, the high schools of several places had assumed a respectful place in the
                    State system. Most of them had begun to graduate classes at this time. The
                    following table may give an idea as to what the schools were doing: 
                  
                     
                     Graduates
                     Number in the High School
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     City
                     Male
                     Female
                     
                     Principal
                     Superintendent
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Shelbyville
                                
                            
                     1
                     4
                     30
                     T Harrison, C.Jenkins, Asst. W.A.Boles
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    New Albany
                                
                            
                     2
                     17
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Franklin
                                
                            
                     None
                     62
                     Mrs. E. W. Thompson
                     E. W.Thompson
                  
                  
                     Jeffersonville
                     1
                     5
                     82
                     
                     O. H. Smith
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Fort Wayne
                                
                            
                     2
                     3
                     70
                     
                     J. H. Smart
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Greensburg
                                
                            
                     2
                     9
                     56
                     
                     C. W. Harvey
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Logansport
                                
                            
                     
                     2
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Vincennes
                                
                            
                     2
                     13
                     110
                     R. A. Townsend.
                     T. J. Charleton
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Lafayette
                                
                            
                     3
                     5
                     78
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Terre Haute
                                
                            
                     3
                     6
                     81
                     
                     W. H. Wiley
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Wabash
                                
                            
                     Total, 6
                     45
                     
                     D. W. Thomas
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Evansville
                                
                            
                     4
                     5
                     93
                     J. A. Leller
                     A. M. Gow
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Princeton
                                
                            
                     2
                     4
                     39
                     
                     D. E. Hunter
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Kokomo
                                
                            
                     None
                     54
                     
                     Sheridan Cox
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Huntington
                                
                            
                     None
                     28
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                            
                     2
                     7
                     375
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Richmond
                     2
                     4
                     69
                     Mrs. J. G. Holcombe
                     
                  
                  
                     Seymour
                     Total, 5
                     
                     
                     
                  
               
            
            In summing up this chapter, one notices likenesses and differences in the various
                    high schools. Most of them at the close had the four year course. In the early
                    period the training of teachers predominated in practically all these schools.
                    The difference existing was the way in which the schools went about it. Some
                    gave practice work, others merely gave the theory. In the beginning also,
                    several places took almost anyone they could get into their high school, age
                    being the principal entrance requirement. Others, like 
                        Indianapolis
                    , had a very strict examination, hence their number of students was
                    below that of 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     for several years. Among other interesting facts to be noted is the
                    fullness of the curricula. This had its cause and its effect. The next  chapter on the
                    "Curriculum" will deal with this phase more extensively.
            THE CURRICULUM
            
            What shall we teach and how? has always been a question confronting school men
                    from the very beginning of educational institutions. It is a question which
                    school men thought they had solved in the early times. Yet it has changed from
                    year to year with advancing civilization, until the thing which was so
                    fundamental then is only a minor part in the educative process today (1912). As
                    one traces the curriculum in Indiana schools from 1856 up till 1880, he notices
                    this change. The question then arises, what caused such a change? Was it the
                    influence of eastern schools? Was it due to social pressure? Or, was it the
                    development of the teacher?
            As far as the early elementary schools were concerned, there is no question but
                    that the subjects taught were influenced by all three of the above. As has been
                    pointed out, many of our early teachers were imported from 
                  Ohio, Massachusetts
               , and elsewhere. They taught what was
                    taught in their States, since they dominated their own systems.
            Again, many of the inhabitants of that time (1852-1860) were born and reared in
                    the East. Their ideas were brought with them as to what should be taught their
                    pupils. It was not an uncommon saying in those days for a parent to tell his boy
                    "What was good enough for me is good enough for you."
            The three R's–reading, writing, and
                    arithmetic–formed the backbone of the graded systems. Arithmetic was
                    considered the most fundamental subject taught. To be able to
                    "figure" was considered worth much in the early days. Each
                    edition of the Indiana School Journal for several years after
                    its foundation in 1856, gave from two to six pages discussing and working out
                    certain problems in this subject. Historically, the next subject which received
                    the most attention from the educators, was spelling. There had been method after
                    method devised for the correct teaching of this subject, but none would work. In
                    1856 the Phonic method of spelling was brought before the teachers of the State
                    and discussed from all angles. In that year the Indiana State
                    Teachers' Association  passed a
                    resolution favoring this method and recommended its adoption in the schools of
                    the State. All schools did not adopt it, however, at that time, and it was some
                    years before they did. 
                        Muncie
                    , for example, did not consider it before 1864. Strange to say, the
                    teaching of reading did not take any systematic form until a much later date. It
                    was thought, at that time, to be easy to teach, hence no method was needed.
            German received more attention at this time than English. Some cities maintained
                    both an English and a German department in their schools. One can readily see
                    that this was due to the early German settlements, the inhabitants of which
                    could not speak any other language. 
                        Shelbyville
                    , in 1859, had a German department in her schools, with a native
                    German teacher at the head. Fifty pupils were enrolled in this department. Many
                    in the English department also took German.
            Nevertheless the larger schools began to enrich their course of study for the
                    grades. 
                        Terre Haute
                     by 1865 gave the following courses below the high school: 
                  
                     (The figures show the number of pupils taking each subject.)
                     
                  
                  
                      Orthography (includes high school)
                     2420
                  
                  
                     Reading
                     2349
                  
                  
                     Mental Arithmetic
                     1105
                  
                  
                     Written Arithmetic
                     813
                  
                  
                     Penmanship
                     1059
                  
                  
                     Geography
                     945
                  
                  
                     English Grammar
                     314
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    United States
                                 History
                     51
                  
                  
                     Analysis
                     38
                  
                  
                     Vocal Music
                     2420
                  
                  
                     German for Children
                     123
                  
                  
                     Composition and Declamation
                     70
                  
               
            
            With the exception of manual training, one sees a close resemblance between the
                    two last courses above given and those given in the same cities today (1912). It
                    all goes to prove that the elementary phase of education had been fairly well
                    worked out by this time. Mental arithmetic, a few years later, was considered
                    useless and dropped. It was, however, revived, and now holds an important place
                    in the teaching of numbers. The elementary schools of the State varied widely,
                    however. The advantages of the larger cities were lacking in  the smaller, where the grade teaching consisted
                    mainly in the teaching of Reading, Spelling, Writing, Arithmetic, Geography, and 
                        United States
                     History.
            One finds the high school in the same position, the size of the school
                    determining to a large extent its course of study. As we have seen above, many
                    of the early high schools had what they termed the "normal
                    class." This was influenced as you may see, by social pressure. In 
                        Richmond
                     a third of the pupils constituted this normal class. In other
                    cities it has been shown that there were many pursuing this line of work. But
                    there was another phase of the high school curriculum which is of more interest
                    to us still, since it was the beginning of what we term a high school today.
            The subjects taught in the normal courses at 
                        Richmond
                     were the common branches, viz: Arithmetic, Reading, Spelling, etc.,
                    with some of the theories of teaching at that time. Much stress was laid upon
                    Elocution, Writing and Rhetoric. These schools compared favorably with our
                    summer normals found in every locality, before the high school requirement was
                    enacted by the legislature. Much of the training was to prepare the pupil to
                    make a license rather than to increase his professional strength.
            The subjects taught in the early high schools were many. There is distinctly an
                    imitation of the eastern schools, copied by the old academies, seminaries, and
                    at last taken over by the public high school. The following list taken from the
                    report of the superintendent of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    'schools (1865) will give an idea of what constituted the
                    high school course of study at that time, together with the number of pupils
                    taking each subject: 
                  
                     Number enrolled in high school
                     74
                  
                  
                     Physical Geography
                     40
                  
                  
                     Algebra
                     33
                  
                  
                     Latin (Lessons, Caesar, Virgil, Cicero)
                     30
                  
                  
                     Philosophy
                     18
                  
                  
                     Drawing
                     16
                  
                  
                     German
                     10
                  
                  
                     Greek (Lessons, Testament, Anabasis)
                     6
                  
                  
                     Chemistry
                     6
                  
                  
                     French
                     4
                  
                  
                     Composition
                     5871
                     
                  
                  
                     Declamation
                     17471
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  1 Includes grade pupils.
            
            
            A table from the same school the year following adds Rhetoric, Geometry,
                    Trigonometry, and Instrumental Music.
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                    , in 1865, accordingto her superintendent's report, gave
                    the following for the high school: 
                  
                     Rhetoric
                     13
                  
                  
                     Algebra
                     65
                  
                  
                     Geometry
                     3
                  
                  
                     Trigonometry
                     3
                  
                  
                     Bookkeeping
                     7
                  
                  
                     Physiology
                     14
                  
                  
                     Physical Geography
                     15
                  
                  
                     General History
                     9
                  
                  
                     French
                     5
                  
                  
                     German
                     27
                  
                  
                     Latin
                     23
                  
                  
                     Greek
                     3
                  
                  
                     Normal Class
                     9
                  
               
            
            In 1869, W. A. Bell, principal of the high school at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , worked out a course of study, setting forth his reasons for so
                    doing. Mr. Bell said:
            "A course of study is not a matter of little consequence. A real
                    advancement, the actual mental growth of the pupil, depends not a little upon
                    the character of his studies and the order of their succession.
            The great problems now to be solved by educators are: (1) How does mind
                    grow'.' What is the natural order of the development of
                    the faculties'.' (2) What are the studies best adapted to
                    this development and how shall they be presented? The second proposition
                    involves necessarily a course of study. The following course for high schools
                    has been arrived at with difficulty, and it Is not entirely satisfactory. It is,
                    however, the result of some years experience, much thought, and close study. and
                    the examination and comparison of the courses of many of the best high schools
                    in the country.
            
               
                  
                  First Year
                  
               
               
                  First Term
                  Second Term
                  Third Term
               
               
                  (1)Algebra
                  (1)Same
                  (1)Same
               
               
                  (2)Latin,German, or the Science of Common Things
                  (2)Same
                  (2)Same
               
               
                  (3)Aids to Composition
                  (3)English Grammar
                  (3)Same
               
               
                  (4)Reading and Spelling
                  (4)Same
                  (4)Same
               
               
                  
                  Second Year
                  
               
               
                  First Term
                  Second Term
                  Third Term
               
               
                  (1)Arithmetic
                  (1)Same
                  (1)Geometry
               
               
                  (2)Latin, German, or Analysis of English Words
                  (2)Same
                  (2)Latin, German, or Bookkeeping
               
               
                  (3)History
                  (3)Same
                  (3)Natural History
               
               
                  (4)Reading and Spelling
                  (4)Same
                  (4)Reading and Spelling
               
               
               
                  
                  Third Year
                  
               
               
                  First Term
                  Second Term
                  Third Term
               
               
                  (1)Geometry
                  (1)Trigonometry
                  (1)English Grammar
               
               
                  (2)Physiology
                  (2)Same
                  (2)Latin, German, or Universal History
               
               
                  (3)Latin, German, or Universal History
                  (3)Same
                  (3)Botany
               
               
                  (4)Natural Philosophy
                  (4)Same
                  (4)Physical Geography
               
               
                  
                  Fourth Year
                  
               
               
                  First Term
                  Second Term
                  Third Term
               
               
                  (1)Physical Geography
                  (1)Astronomy
                  (1)Moral Phikosophy
               
               
                  (2)Botany
                  (2)Latin, French, or Chemistry
                  (2)Latin, French, or Geology
               
               
                  (3)Chemistry
                  (3)Rhetoric
                  (3)Chemistry
               
               
                  (4)Latin, French, or Constitution of the United State
                  (4) — — —
                  (4)English Literature
               
            
            In addition weekly exercises in Composition, Declamations, etc., should be
                    required throughout the entire course.
            
               
                        Evansville
                    , in 1866, had a very extensive course requiring four years for its
                    completion. Among the subjects taught were Algebra, Geometry, Trigonometry,
                    Surveying, Latin through Cicero's Orations, Greek through the Reader,
                    Chemistry, and Mental and Moral Arithmetic.
            To meet the demands of the times (the social pressure element), 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1875 followed 
                        Chicago
                    's plan and adopted a two year course in her high school.
                    This was done because more than fifty per cent quit school before reaching the
                    third year of high school. This course consisted of the following:
            FIRST YEAR: Algebra. Arithmetic (reviewed).
                    English, Geography (reviewed), General History, Free Hand Drawing, Morals,
                    Elocution, and Music.
            SECOND YEAR : Plane Geometry. Commercial
                    Arithmetic, Physical Geography, Natural Philosophy, General History,
                    Bookkeeping. Mechanical Drawing. Zoology, and lectures on Commercial Law.
            Since our early high schools were very much like the eastern schools, one is not
                    surprised to find Greek and Latin, as well as French and German,
                        all in the course of study. All the larger schools–
                        Indianapolis
                    , 
                  Fort Wayne, Terre Haute
               , 
                    
                        Evansville
                    , 
                        New Albany
                    –had these. Such schools were the offshoots of the
                    original "classical" institutions of learning. The teaching of
                    science was poorly done in the early schools. As the course of study will show,
                    they tried to give a little of all the sciences instead of one or two in a
                    thorough manner. Notwithstanding this, 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Fort Wayne
                     both had installed in their schools very good apparatus for
                    teaching physics and beginning chemistry. They were exceptions. As the languages
                    took such an important place in the course, English took a lower place. English,
                    at first, was taught by the mechanical method, rather than by any method looking
                    toward appreciation. Moral philosophy was taught at first in the high school,
                    but later was deferred until the pupil had entered a college.
            In many ways the early course was a good one, and compared favorably with ours of
                    today. As stated above, the poor teaching of English and the fragmentary
                    presentation of the sciences were a detriment to the early course. While the
                    high schools have always been designated as the "people's
                    colleges," the main factor in making up their curricula was not the
                    people. It was pure imitation of the older schools in which university and
                    college requirements dominated the course. Strange to say, the old time-worn
                    paths are still followed today (1912). Schools have tried to meet the needs of
                    the people, as 
                        Indianapolis
                     tried it in her two-year course, but soon they found themselves
                    back in the classical atmosphere. Usually those who attended the high school in
                    the earlier period were those who were better off financially than the average
                    elementary school pupil. They were sent to school for one thing. There was but
                    one aim in view. It was culture. This phase of education has always dominated
                    the course of study in the high school.
            Summarizing the influences which affected the growth of the curriculum, it is
                    found that the greatest factor was the influence of the eastern schools.
                    Teachers from the eastern section of the country brought to the early schools of
                    Indiana the ideas which they had learned in the East
            Financial conditions of communities conditioned to a large extent what was
                    taught. This was especially true of the high school. As the school grew, the
                    course of study grew. Social  pressure was
                    effective in another way, viz: the determination of certain courses for special
                    purposes. This was shown very well in the case of the two-year course at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It is very difficult to show just where the influence of the
                    teacher leaves off and that of the community begins. They have always been very
                    closely connected.
            PROFESSIONAL TRAINING
                    OF TEACHERS
            
            Another factor which entered into city supervision was the matter of professional
                    training of teachers. The complexity of the graded systems, together with the
                    ever-increasing curriculum, made it necessary that the teacher as well as the
                    supervisor have more than a mere knowledge of the subject-matter. The question
                    during the early period was how and where should this training be given. At that
                    time Indiana possessed no State normal school. But it was at this early period
                    that a need for one was felt, especially by city superintendents. It was during
                    the infancy of Indiana's school system that these school officials
                    began a movement whereby professional instruction might be given those who
                    wished to teach, by means of State aid. Until that time came, when the
                    legislature saw fit to establish such an institution, each corporation had to
                    provide in the best way it could for the training of teachers.
            Since many of our early teachers, especially the superintendents, high school
                    principals, and the high school teachers in general, were imported, this problem
                    was partially solved in this respect. Almost all of them had training in the
                    normal schools of 
                  Massachusetts, New
                    York
                and 
                        Ohio
                    , the States from which they usually came.
            But, as stated above, graded teaching became more difficult. The teacher could no
                    longer systematize her six or eight classes of students as she wished. It was
                    necessary that her work fit in with the work of the teacher a grade above or a
                    grade below her own. It was a question of making a whole out of many, instead of
                    having a whole in itself, as in the case where the single teacher had all grades
                    under her care.
            The problems of the graded school presented themselves in great numbers. It was
                    the matter of overcoming these problems with which the trained superintendent
                    had to deal.  Teachers had to be trained
                    some way, somehow. It was, then, with the earliest graded system that the idea
                    of professional training of teachers came. It was at this time that the
                    superintendent took upon himself the duty of training his own teachers. This was
                    conducted in many ways. It was during this period also that memorial after
                    memorial was presented to each succeeding legislature for the establishment of a
                    State institution whereby grade teachers might be trained at the cost of the
                    State; and this pressure upon our law-making body did not cease until the work
                    was accomplished by an act for the establishment of a State Normal School,
                    December 20, 1865. The object of such a school was "the preparation of
                    teachers for teaching in the common schools of Indiana."
            As early as 1856 
                        Richmond
                     had established a normal department in her high school, where
                    students were regularly taught matters pertaining to practical teaching. This
                    work was largely done by Superintendent Josiah Hurty. Mr. Hurty was from 
                        Ohio
                    , and was one of the originators of the 
                        Ohio
                     State Teachers' Association. This fact of training
                    teachers was made more imperative by an order of the school board that none but
                    professionally trained teachers should be engaged in the city schools of 
                        Richmond
                    
            
            Normal training classes were conducted in other cities also, with the same
                    purpose in mind. 
                        Terre Haute
                    , 
                        Evansville
                    , 
                        Indianapolis
                     and other places offered this instruction to those who cared to
                    become teachers. This work was conducted in some cities long after the
                    establishment of a normal school at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and still exists in some cities today (1912).
            Taking into consideration the traveling facilities at that time, one can well
                    judge the number who could or would go away from home to take professional work.
                    City superintendents, after they had worked so hard getting an institution
                    established, could not get their teachers to attend it. Teachers were not yet
                    able to cope with the new duties which their far-sighted supervisors had planned
                    for them to do. The fact was plain that the teachers had to be educated up to
                    this standard as well as the citizens to the graded schools.
            In 1866 the school trustees of 
                        Indianapolis
                     established at  that place a
                    training school for teachers, planned after the Oswego system. This was carried
                    forward for a while and later dropped. In 1871, however, the board of school
                    commissioners directed the superintendent to reorganize the training school for
                    teachers in connection with the public schools of the city. It was a great step
                    in the matter of training better teachers for the schools.
            In 1871 the 
                        Indianapolis
                     school board also had the superintendent organize a Saturday
                    Teachers' Institute, to be held on each alternate Saturday during the
                    year. The object was to afford teachers all possible facilities to fit
                    themselves for their work, and to assist them in the preparation of obtaining
                    the higher grades of certificates which would be required after that year. The
                    board appropriated $300.00 to pay competent instructors for this
                    institute work. As early as 1873, 
                        Indianapolis
                     had two supervising principals, two lady superintendents of primary
                    schools, a Writing teacher, and a teacher of Elocution, all of whom were
                    directly associated in the training of the grade teachers. To keep the standard
                    high and insure the best possible work from each teacher, the following
                    resolution was adopted this year:
            "That those teachers in the public schools who are required to teach
                    Arithmetic, Grammar, Physiology, Geography, and History, together with the
                    higher branches, shall not be permitted to use text-books during recitations iu
                    these several branches. The teacher may, however, be allowed to prepare an
                    abstract of the lesson, if desired, to be used during the exercises."
            In 1873 E. H. Butler, superintendent of the Lawrence-burg schools, laid out a
                    regular course of study for his teachers at their semi-monthly meetings. It was
                    as follows: "An exhaustive treatise of intellectual science. A course
                    of oral instruction, embracing language lessons, object lessons, natural history
                    and physics." The above was their regular work. They also had to make
                    special preparation for each recitation. In addition they were compelled to
                    formulate lessons on "home geography," including maps of their
                    own city, county and State. Teachers were required to learn and teach the
                    townships in the county; the counties, county seats, etc., in the State. They
                    were also required to learn methods of teaching the common school branches. All
                    this goes to show  the professional wrork done in the cities themselves. The teachers were really
                    trained after they were in the service.
            
               
                        Logansport
                    , on the other hand, maintained a critic school, both for practice
                    teaching and instruction in the theoretical part of the work. Two competent
                    instructors, graduates of the Oswego Normal School, conducted this work. Here
                    the students were taken out of high school and taught matters pertaining to
                    practical teaching. Eight pupils a year were taken, four teaching and four
                    taking theory. This was a movement ahead of its time.
            Some cities did not seem to take the matter of professional training of teachers
                    very seriously. As a rule their schools showed a lack of harmony.
            For this reason, 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1870 had a very poorly organized system. Three of their teachers
                    at that time weflfi licensed and employed without a legal examination. The
                    school in no way met any requirements or standards set by other schools at that
                    time. Very few of the smaller corporations required any professional training.
                    '
            Much of this good work was done under the direction of men who had been trained
                    in other States. Superintendent Hurty of 
                        Richmond
                     came from 
                        Ohio
                    , where he had been engaged in school work. In 1869 
                        Union City
                     secured the services of Professor E. Tucker, formerly of Liber
                    College. 
                        Leavenworth
                    , in 1866, secured the services of Mr. Odell from 
                        New Hampshire
                    , who conducted a prosperous school at that place. Seymour, the same
                    year, secured Mr. Taylor, from 
                        Ohio
                    . 
                        Indianapolis
                     had W. T. Webster, of 
                        Maine
                    , as principal of her high school in 1858. 
                        Aurora
                     in 1870 secured the services of Edward Clark as her superintendent.
                    Mr. Clark came from 
                        Ohio
                    , where he had been for several years a successful teacher in the 
                        Lebanon
                     Normal School. 
                        Evansville
                     secured as her first high school principal B. P. Snow, a graduate
                    of Bowdoin College.
            The influence of such men as these was very marked, since they brought into the
                    new system of schools the ideas which had been worked out in older systems of
                    the East.
            Another scheme which the early superintendent worked out was the professional
                    skill gained by teachers in visiting good schools. In 1870 Superintendent A. C.
                    Shortridge, of 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    , with eight or ten of his teachers, visited the 
                        St. Louis
                     schools. Six or eight other teachers visited the 
                        Cincinnati
                     schools at the same time. In 1872 Superintendent H. H. Boyce did
                    still better by taking all his teachers to 
                        Cincinnati
                     for observation, where they spent a week visiting the 
                        Cincinnati
                     schools. This same year (1872), Superintendent J. J. Miles, of 
                        Wabash
                    , visited the 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools with several of his teachers. It was such work as this that
                    inspired many teachers with the desire for more training. Some cities were
                    fortunate in having their teachers attend normal schools. 
                        Franklin
                    , for example, had, out of a corps of nine teachers, seven who were
                    graduates of normal schools, and the other two had been in attendance but had
                    not graduated.
            From this it is seen that professional training of teachers was not looked upon
                    as something unnecessary. From the earliest period it was deemed a necessity.
                    The transition from the old single-room building to the new many-roomed
                    structure, put the ordinary teacher in a new teaching world. No longer did the
                    single teacher rule over all he surveyed. He was only a part in a machine. The
                    future of the system depended upon how well he fitted into this complex
                    mechanism. New methods were employed, new ideals set forth. It was the one who
                    succeeded in working out these methods and ideals that served as a factor in
                    making the city school system of Indiana a success.
            THE CENTRALIZING TENDENCY
            
            Throughout this discussion of the early city schools of Indiana, among the other
                    facts to be taken into consideration is the tendency toward centralized
                    organization. This organization had its beginning in the single building itself.
                    Afterwards, an organization was effected in the city or town by a centralization
                    of power in the hands of a superintendent. The third step was the gradual growth
                    toward centralization of all the city schools into a State unit. It might be
                    well to state here that State organization has never yet been fully worked out
                    (1912).
            Taking the early school as an example of the first type, it is seen that
                    organization was fairly well worked out. The  purpose of the school was merely to give a limited knowledge of the three
                    R's. The teacher was the master of the situation in all respects, and
                    depended upon no one for advice as to how the school should or should not be
                    graded. If there was any problem or organization, it was the
                    teacher's problem as an individual
            But the system of gradation came into prominence. With gradation came several
                    teachers in the place of one or two. Instead of being a simple unit, as it
                    formerly was, it now became a complex organization. It was this change to
                    complexity which brought forth new problems to both teachers and patrons. Such
                    towns as 
                  Salem, Bedford, Rockport
                and Anderson were unable to adjust
                    themselves to this new movement, hence graded schools lagged.
            With the employment of several teachers in one building, it became necessary for
                    the whole school to be organized into a unit, instead of having each room a unit
                    in itself. It was the situation here which necessitated the introduction of the
                    principal. This official was designated as high school principal, or grade
                    principal, depending upon the grade of work which was given. Here new duties
                    arose. Each teacher was but a part of a highly centralized unit. It was
                    necessary that this individual's work be in harmony with all the
                    other units in the building. It was the principal who was the head of this
                    organization, who kept the work in line. As the towns grew in size, the single
                    building was not sufficient. Expense and distance both became factors of
                    organization, especially the latter. Many cities of the early period attempted
                    to meet the demands of the school population by erecting very large buildings
                    which would serve the whole city. These structures varied in size from fourteen
                    to twenty rooms. 
                  Vincennes,
                            Logansport, Valparaiso, Madison
                and many other cities constructed such
                    buildings in the early '70s, hoping to escape the complexity as well
                    as the expense of running their schools in two or more separate buildings.
            The growth of the cities in population and area demanded a change. The single
                    structure no longer sufficed, and buildings had to be located in all parts of
                    the city, to meet the demands of the times.
            This change was not made in all cities at the same time.  As early as 1852, 
                        Indianapolis
                     had several structures in use, and more being built. 
                        Evansville
                    , at the early period of 1856, was conducting her schools in
                    separate buildings, while some of the smaller cities, such as those named above,
                            
                  Logansport, Vincennes
               , etc., had the single
                    school plant in operation. This condition existed as late as 1880
            The use of several buildings was another step in the tendency toward
                    centralization. Not only was it necessary for one building to be a unit in
                    itself, but it was now essential that each building be an organized part of the
                    whole system. It was not an easy matter for such organization to be brought
                    about. In an earlier chapter it was shown how, in several cities, each building
                    worked along independently of the others. Different text-books were used,
                    different methods of teaching, and, in fact, each individual building was a unit
                    itself.
            In 
                        Indianapolis
                     we found in 1856 a well-organized system. By 1875 there was a
                    superintendent, two assistant superintendents, three special supervisors, and
                    principals at all buildings. Here the third step toward centralization had been
                    effected nicely. 
                        Evansville
                     also had her whole system organized, as did 
                        New Albany
                    , 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            But there was another factor in centralization which had to be worked out with
                    great care, on account of its great importance to the State as a whole. The
                    matter of unifying the building and the group of buildings was very easy when
                    compared with a State organization. It is well to state that such a
                    centralization has not been worked out satisfactorily to the State school
                    authorities (the State board of education) to this date (1912).
            For several reasons State centralization has not been effective in all respects.
                    First, the size of the State, embracing geographical conditions which were
                    vastly different. The rich, level land of the north and central portion was far
                    more valuable than the hilly land of the south. Second, the people of different
                    sections of the State were of different characters, and demanded varied local
                    institutions of different types, schools being among the others. The two
                    foregoing factors, wealth and inherited traits of the people, made State
                    centralization of schools a very difficult problem. Notwithstanding  these barriers, certain attempts were made to get
                    the schools of the State working on some definite plan
            First was the organization of the State Teachers' Association, in
                    1854. While this covered the rural schools directly, city systems and their
                    teachers were well represented. The methods and ways of teaching were discussed
                    at length. The subject-matter to be taught in the schools was arranged and plans
                    laid for unity in that line.
            Perhaps the organization which stood nearest the city school system, and the one
                    which did most to promote unity as far as it was concerned, was the City and
                    Town Superintendents' Association, which was organized at 
                        Shelbyville
                    , July 30, 1863. This organization was only the beginning of a
                    permanent organization which was effected at 
                        Richmond
                     December 29 of the same year. The following resolution was adopted
                    at 
                        Shelbyville
                    :
            "Resolved, That for the purpose of discussing from time to time the
                    various subjects connected with the management of city and town schools, and for
                    the further purpose of discussing questions of a scientific and literary
                    character, we make a permanent organization of school superintendents for the
                    State, to meet annually."
            In 1873 another organization of the same kind and for the same purpose was
                    organized at 
                        Seymour
                    . The organization was known as the Convention of Public School
                    Superintendents of Southern Indiana.
            These organizations did much in standardizing certain parts of the school
                    systems. In conjunction with the State Teachers Association, they worked out
                    very definitely a common school course of study. But they each and all failed on
                    the high school proposition. Since these schools were planned and carried on in
                    different towns and cities, for different purposes, it was hard to bring about a
                    compromise as to what should be taught. However, by general imitation, as well
                    as by argument, the course was more definite in 1880 than it was in 1860. The
                    requirements for entrance were practically the same all over the State, and the
                    four-year course prevailed with but few exceptions.
            The cities had much in their favor for centralization that the rural districts at
                    that time could not hope to have. The principal factor was the length of term.
                    Where the district  schools varied in length
                    from two and one-half to ten months, the city schools only varied from eight to
                    ten months. The majority had the latter length of term. This made unity all the
                    more possible.
            Another factor in State centralization was the State Board of Education. This
                    body, when first organized in 1852, did very little toward organizing the school
                    systems of the State. What little was done mostly concerned the non-urban
                    schools, since the law gave the latter much power as to their own control. Later
                    its power became of great importance.
            In conclusion, it is seen that there have been three steps toward centralization,
                    as follows: 
                  From the ungraded room to the graded building.
                  From the single graded building to a number of buildings, nil in a
                            single system.
                  From the city system to a State centralization of systems.
               
            
            While it is difficult to pass from one to the other, the matter of unity was well
                    accomplished until State centralization was attempted. The latter has only met
                    with partial success, and its problems remain for the future educators of the
                    State to solve.
         
         
         
            Social Effects of the Monon Railway in Indiana
            BY DR. JOHN POUCHER, Orleans, Indiana
            This treatise is undertaken to portray some of the component factors in our
                    social life, to indicate what part thoroughfares like the river, canals and the
                    old-fashioned "pike" as well as railroads take in molding the
                    domestic, economic and civic affairs of the people. The Monon railway is chosen
                    as an example because for many years it was the longest stretch of line under
                    one management in the State of Indiana. It largely determined the direction
                    taken by a broad stream of emigration, and in traversing the State from south to
                    north contributed in a marked degree to the commingling of the diverse elements
                    of people arriving from the South and East. Other roads followed routes where
                    the citizens were likely to be more nearly homogeneous in their antecedents. The
                    Monon has been a good mixing machine.
            This, one of the earliest ironways constructed in the State, was first known as
                    the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     Railroad, designed ultimately to connect 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    . At the time when the work was begun waterways were the chief and
                    most important' means of general communication in the 
                        United States
                    , and 
                        Louisville
                     figured about as prominently as 
                        Chicago
                    , which has since become our interior metropolis. The Ohio
                        river, then and always destined to be one of the principal
                    arteries of commerce, was the main channel from the northeast section of the
                    country to the dominant South. Population, with 
                        Louisville
                     as one of the gateways, was moving in a northwesterly direction
                    from the Carolinas, East 
                  Tennessee, Georgia
                and 
                        Kentucky
                    . Indiana has always contained a relatively large element of
                    population from the Southern States, visibly affecting the political complexion
                    of its citizenship, quite noticeably in 
                  Washington, Putnam
                and 
                        Montgomery
                     counties, with a decisive bearing on national policies. A very
                    considerable contribution of intelligent and thrifty people came down the river
                    from 
                  Virginia, Maryland
                and the farther
                    East, taking passage on the steamboats at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and  stopping at the Falls,
                    where they were met by alien and native emigrants at what was then an
                    insurmountable barrier in navigation. In the intermingling a vigorous,
                    intellectual and warm-hearted race has been produced which has figured enviably
                    in the social life of the whole country.
            While the Monon railway has become an important factor in the development of the
                    region through which it passes, it encountered many embarrassments in
                    management, and did not at first offer the means of rapid and convenient travel
                    toward the coming emporium on Lake Michigan. The trip could
                    not be completed in one day. Patrons stayed overnight at 
                        Lafayette
                    . The projectors of the enterprise were seemingly influenced in
                    selecting their routes by the promise of ease and cheapness in construction.
                    Saving of time for running gear was apparently a secondary consideration. The
                    lengthening of the line served the same purpose which nature accomplishes in its
                    winding streams, which increase the territory that reaps special benefits from
                    the thoroughfare. The steam-grader was not then in use. It was no easy matter to
                    make a fill or blast through hard, unyielding rock to overcome precipitous
                    ascents or bridge wide or capricious streams.
            When the east fork of White river was reached four or five
                    miles south of 
                        Bedford
                     the trains could go no further, and some of the State maps of that
                    date marked the line as the "
                        New Albany
                     and Juliet Railroad." A wooden bridge built by Thomas
                    Grant, an Englishman, later of 
                        Evansville
                    , after much delay spanned the river, and the extension continued
                    until in 1852 the road was completed between 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Michigan City
                    , a junction deviating considerably from a direct line but
                    connecting with the 
                        Michigan
                     Central for the desired terminus. The event was celebrated at 
                        New Albany
                     with a famous Fourth of July barbecue, then a very popular
                    festivity, at which Governors Joseph A. Wright of Indiana and Lazarus W. Powell
                    of 
                        Kentucky
                     were speakers. 
                        Lafayette
                     was practically the most important station at the north end of the
                    route. Here trains were reversed. The time schedule was arranged for daylight
                    service. Strap iron spiked on wooden beams laid longitudinally across the ties
                    constituted the first tracks, and later the "T" rail was
                    substituted without angle-couplers, occasioning a peculiar thudding  sound as the wheels passed over the joints. An
                    attempt was afterward made to remedy the jar by bolting pieces of timber about
                    three feet long on the outside of the rails. Travelers accepted the meager
                    conveniences whereby they might reach a distant place with so little expenditure
                    of muscular energy. Time was not a very important consideration with a class
                    leisurely by antecedents and unoppressed with nervous ambition to secure food so
                    abundantly supplied from the forests and clearings, or to meet the social
                    demands, which were simple and inexpensive.
            The scenery was romantic and suggestive. Trains skirted along at the foot of The
                    Knobs until they arrived at New Providence—now called
                    Borden—eighteen miles from 
                        New Albany
                    . Here speed was somewhat checked until the long steep grade could
                    be surmounted, leading in devious lines aside the watercourses, passing through
                    cuts of very hard limestone and sweeping unaccountably along low swags. The road
                    for private vehicles between 
                        Pekin
                     and 
                        Salem
                     is three or four miles shorter than the iron route. The mention of 
                        Pekin
                     gives occasion to call attention to the concurrent naming of
                    contiguous villages in that section of 
                        Washington county
                     for large cities—
                        Pekin
                    , 
                        Canton
                    , 
                        South Boston
                    , 
                        New Philadelphia
                     and 
                        Little York
                    . A great horseshoe bend formed apparently with little cause is one
                    of the picturesque features of the railroad three miles north of 
                        Bedford
                    . It is related that as late as 1868 a man alighted from the
                    southbound train at 
                        Salem
                    , went north two blocks to the "public square,"
                    engaged in an altercation in which he killed his antagonist, loosed one of the
                    horses tied at the courthouse hitchrack, and rode to Harristown, now Norris,
                    arriving there before the train, which stopped on the road to take wood for
                    fuel, and reboarding the cars, he disappeared and escaped from justice. An
                    amusing anecdote is also told concerning one of the officers of the company
                    while on a tour of inspection that, when he was asked what he thought of the
                    road, he said he saw one straight stretch where a curve might have been made.
                    Such jests in regard to any public utility are quite common, though the
                    perpetrators are often among its best friends.
            Evidently the projectors aimed to reach as many points of local importance as
                    possible for feeders to the line on its  way
                    to the principal marts. As a result of this survey there are many way stations
                    that owe an incalculable debt in their prosperity. While the course of the route
                    is generally northward, it leads through 
                        Salem
                     and Campbellsburg almost due west, and fresh-comers are usually
                    much confused in fixing the points of the compass in those towns. Trains from
                    the south come from a northeasterly direction to Orleans, an important station
                    now the junction for the branch to the West Baden and French Lick country. The
                    spur that reaches the famous watering resorts, and forms prorating connections
                    with the Southern Railway was constructed about 1887. It is laid over the
                    "dry bed" of Lost river, and before
                    touching the terminus it skirts the banks of that queer stream that emerges from
                    the earth at the hamlet of Orangeville. This territory for eighteen miles is
                    fraught with much historic interest, and owes greatly to the railroad for its
                    progressive spirit as well as adventitious prosperity.
            Though the stock invested for construction brought no dividends, these
                    investments after seventy years have brought abundant return to the public at
                    large in the increased assets of the community. The patronizing zone was very
                    slow in coming to its own. Wild blackberries was an appreciable item of shipment
                    as late as the seventies. Now the strawberry crop employs growers as far as
                    twenty miles from the road. The renowned oolitic stone did not begin to move for
                    several years. The writer remembers when the sole freight service for a day
                    would consist of an engine, caboose and one car. The management in those days
                    was often incompetent and invariably provincial. No field had yet been
                    discovered for railroad magnates or experts; at least they did not feel invited
                    here, though James Brooks, the first president, was a noble man and highly
                    influential citizen with whom modern officials can scarcely vie in capacity for
                    civic service. John B. Anderson, the first general superintendent, was
                    afterwards president of a fashionable college for young women. Once on a train
                    that had stopped for water where a blind man with bucksaw was cutting cordwood
                    for the company a person remarked to the roadmaster, who was in the caboose,
                    "That is a strange way of doing." The officer replied,
                    "Poor folks have poor ways." Some years later I recognized the
                         same roadmaster so far reduced in
                    circumstances as with hoe in hand to be cleaning the streets of a nearby city.
                    The merging of the line with connecting links at 
                  Chicago, Louisville
                and 
                        Indianapolis
                     may have swollen the dividends, in fact became a necessity, but
                    gone forever is the sense of a residential partnership in the possession and
                    management of the road. 
                        New Albany
                    , the original starting point, especially, was in a state of
                    pathetic mourning when the words "
                        New Albany
                    " were dropped from the monogram title. The overshadowing
                    of the terminal cities was inevitable.
            Facilities in travel were few and limited. Often the morning train out from 
                        New Albany
                     had to wait for the bus that brought the passengers on an uncertain
                    ferry boat schedule from 
                        Louisville
                    , five miles away, and its arrival was signal for some extra
                    scurrying on the platforms. There was little catering to the whims of appetite,
                    though one peanut boy is now a large capitalist in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Passengers never dreamed of chair or sleeping coaches, and very
                    few of the patrons could have afforded the luxury. Just after the memorable cold
                    New Year of 1864 the writer had occasion to travel from 
                        New Albany
                     to 
                        Greencastle
                    , a distance of one hundred and forty miles. He boarded the train at
                    2 :20 p. m. on Monday and alighted at 
                        Greencastle
                     at 5:25 a. m. on Wednesday. A truck under one of the coaches flew
                    the track in Salt Creek Bottoms at 8 o'clock Tuesday morning, and by
                    the methods then employed could not be replaced until after dark. Trainmen and
                    passengers alike had to shift for themselves in getting food or drink, but all
                    took it without complaint. People off as well as on the road were used to
                    discomforts now regarded as unbearable.
            Officers in those times were on terms of familiar intercourse with patrons. The
                    employees wore no uniforms, nothing to distinguish them except the title of
                    their several positions laid over the hatband. Conductors were allowed great
                    latitude of discretion in the transaction of business, and they were nearly
                    always agreeable and accommodating. A company of hilarious Methodist preachers
                    were on their way to annual conference. Among them was a dark-skinned wag with
                    sunken eyes, of whom the conductor asked his fare, oftener purchased on the
                    train than by ticket. Clergymen's  certificates for reduced rates were not then considered necessary. The
                    passenger asked, "How much?" with an answer calling for the
                    regular fare. "But," said he, "you charge me more
                    than the other fellows; I am a preacher, too." "You, a
                    preacher!" said the conductor; "you
                    don't look like one." Determined to have a little fun, the
                    minister parried payment until the conductor left him to attend to one of their
                    frequent stoppings. On returning the officer again solicited the passenger, who
                    in apparent amazement, said, "Are you the conductor?"
                    "Yes, sir," was the reply. "You the
                    conductor! You don't look like one." To which he
                    good-naturedly rejoined, "Oh, go along!" and he
                    charged no pay at all in return for the joke. Conductors had to be men of
                    courage and ready presence of mind in those days. One of these, Thomas Han-Ion,
                    though palsied in one arm, was invariably master of the situation, and after a
                    long, sensational and successful career beginning in 1854, still lives, and is
                    now in the 
                        United States
                     government employ in 
                        Washington
                     at nearly four-score. William F. Sears, a far-advanced
                    octogenarian, highly respected and now residing at 
                        Orleans
                    , served as baggage-master when the road reached no farther than 
                        Bedford
                    . A round trip was made daily.
            Much of the passenger traffic being local and the trains moving slowly with
                    frequent and protracted stops, opportunity was afforded for friendly
                    conversation in the cars. There was little reserve of intercourse among the
                    travelers, even with strangers. No one hesitated to address himself to his
                    neighbor on any subject. Talk took a wide range on theological questions,
                    politics, the markets, local occurrences, etc, A considerable sensation would be
                    produced in the coach, seldom crowded, by the advent of some distinguished civil
                    officer, or of a college dignitary at 
                  Bloomington, Greencastle
               , or 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . The presidents of the college institutions enjoyed the courtesy of
                    a free pass. Much valuable information and culture would be gained in the
                    interviewing of intelligent citizens when newspapers were comparatively scarce,
                    high-priced, and restricted in their news columns. A scene of thrilling interest
                    included the crowds that gathered each day at the depot in 
                        Bloomington
                    , students in great number, though a catalogue rule actually forbade
                    the same class at 
                    
                        Greencastle
                    , farmers for miles away, freeholders and common loafers, it would
                    seem as if the whole region had turned out just to see the train and its
                    passengers and one another, the chief event of the day. Though the platform
                    alongside of which the cars stopped was elevated and narrow, very few accidents
                    occurred.
            The rough and ready folks of that period were expected to take care of
                    themselves, though not without instructions. On the green oilcloth lining of the
                    car walls between all the windows was stencil-stamped a long list of warnings
                    against putting head, arm or limbs out of opened windows, or changing coaches, a
                    very risky proceeding, while the train was in motion. On account of numerous
                    obstacles on the unfenced track, cattle, pigs, horses, landslides, fallen trees,
                    there was constant peril for life or limb with few suits for damages. Professor
                    Miles J. Fletcher, on the way to the 
                        Shiloh
                     battlefield in 1862, riding in the same seat with Governor Morton
                    on an 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                     train which was suddenly jolted at 
                        Sullivan
                    , lost his life by putting his head out of a window to see what was
                    the matter, being struck by a freight car which lifted the crown off his skull.
            Large sums of money were used in the erection of depots designed to be depots
                    indeed, for the sidetrack generally led right through the middle of the house,
                    where it had been expected great lots of freight would be stored for
                    considerable time. These were expensive brick structures which it was soon found
                    were wholly unnecessary.1 When one would be destroyed a
                    smaller and more suitable building would be erected.
            While patronage in those times was not so extensive as on some other
                    thoroughfares, especially those lying in an east and west direction, the old
                    road became a very influential agency in connection with the sociological
                    development of the country. At almost every little station there was located
                    some private educational institution, like that of the Mays at 
                        Salem
                    . Three of the chief colleges in the State were seated at points now
                    become more accessible by the building of the road—Indiana University
                    (State), Indiana Asbury University 
                  
                     1.Several of these old depots are still standing
                            notably at Gosport Orleans etc–ED
                  
               
                     (Methodist), and 
                        Wabash
                     College (Presbyterian). Doubtless more college students have taken
                    passage on the Monon than on any other route in Indiana. Dr. Cyrus Nutt,
                    afterwards president of Indiana University, in his autobiographical sketch
                    relates how in 1837, when he became the first preceptor at 
                        Greencastle
                    , he rode part of the way on a hay wagon from Putnamville, reached
                    by a National Road stage, and walked the rest of the distance. In the more
                    modern period Purdue University was established at 
                        Lafayette
                    , also Borden Institute, the Southern Indiana Normal College at
                            
                  Mitchell, Bedford
                Male and Female College, 
                        Ladoga
                     Academy, and no doubt several others. Occasion has been taken for
                    the sportive remark that though there are five colleges on the line, it leads to
                    the State Reformatory at one end and to the State Prison at the other.
            A palpable effect of the railroad's contribution to civilization is
                    shown in the distinctive character of the population collected on either side of
                    the route. Their ancestors were emigrants from the Southern States, a region on
                    account of slavery and local situation somewhat behind the times. The people
                    were slow in discovering themselves. To the sprightly Yankee who must move
                    briskly in a more frigid climate, the backwoods Hoosier was a common butt of
                    ridicule from which the native was inclined rather sullenly to withdraw himself,
                    and thus to fall still further in the rear. He was not yet conscious of his
                    inherent powers. His parents had not concerned themselves about their
                    Scotch-Irish ancestry, were not aware that it was worth mentioning. Pride of
                    pedigree was rather discountenanced, as is likely in every newly settled
                    country. It was mistakenly supposed that we in America must do nothing to pamper
                    a blood aristocracy, though now beginning to be recognized in scientific
                    eugenics. The railroad introduced teachers who cultivated the innate faculties
                    of ingenuous fellows from whom have developed so many preachers, statesmen,
                    orators, pedagogues and financial magnates who have astonished the inhabitants
                    of other regions possessed of greater natural advantages.
            Another social effect of the Monon is evident in the theological bias of the
                    population. Simultaneous with the phenomenal growth of the Church of the
                    Disciples under Alexander  Campbell and
                    like-minded spirits in West 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    , the railway made a wide and long scope of territory accessible in
                    which this denomination of Christians is unusually thrifty and strong. The
                    Baptists from 
                        Georgia
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     continue to be well represented in their descendants. While
                    Methodists are numerous all along the line, and predominated, according to Mr.
                    Hanlon, in employee service, their relative prosperity, like that of some other
                    church organizations, is due chiefly to causes inherent in themselves.
            The modernizing of railway management which took place about the time when this
                    company extended its valuable branch line to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the busy spur to West Baden and French Lick has also affected
                    the contributory regions both in the make-up of its inhabitants and their
                    character, customs and tastes. The oolitic stone quarries extending along the
                    tracks for thirty-five miles have called the world's attention to
                    this section. Immense capital has been invested, requiring a prodigious number
                    of laborers, skilled and unskilled, being worth much more to the country than
                    mines of the precious metals that employ no further labor when the original
                    product is obtained. While palatial car service may not remunerate the
                    management, it has attracted well-to-do travelers, of whom some have seen enough
                    to induce them to settle there, and a new atmosphere has been created,
                    especially at the junctions or other more frequent stopping points. Exterior
                    initiative, combined with indigenous potentiality, has tended to effect a new
                    social order, a steady and reliable progress in genuine and desirable
                    civilization. The advance is recognized with much satisfaction by those who,
                    knowing the country sixty-five years ago, take broad views of community welfare.
            The following letter from Mr. Hanlon to Dr. Poucher is worth preserving in this
                    connection:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              HOUSE
                                 OF'' REPRESKNTATIVES, WASHINGTON, 
                                    D. C.
                                 
                              
                           ,
                                        July 21. 1916.
                        I have received your letter of July 17. which I appreciate very
                                    much. asking for information of what I know and remember of
                                    myself and other friends connected with the 
                                        New Albany
                                     and 
                                        Salem
                                     Railroad. I remember well when the 
                                        New Albany
                                     and 
                                        Salem
                                     Railroad was controlled and managed by the
                                    employees and a large majority of them members of that
                                    (Methodist) church.
                        John R. Daniels was agent at 
                                        New Albany
                                    ; Col. McCray, division  superintendent from 
                                        Bloomington
                                     to 
                                        Lafayette
                                    ; William Foster, from 
                                        Lafayette
                                     to 
                                        Michigan City
                                    ; John B. Anderson was the first superintendent and
                                    general manager of the whole line from 
                                        New Albany
                                     to 
                                        Michigan City
                                    . The agent at 
                                        Providence
                                     was a man by the name of Shaw. John Mc-Kinney
                                    superseded him in those days as agent and was a Methodist
                                    (Error. I think—J. P.). At Harristown a man by the
                                    name of Norris was agent, and a Methodist, and I believe his
                                    daughter is still agent there. At Salem John Parker was agent;
                                    at 
                                        Campbellsburg
                                     a man by the name of Brown; at 
                                        Lancaster
                                     a man by the name of Henry Monyhan was agent; at 
                                        Orleans
                                     a man by the name of Walker was agent and John D.
                                    Carter took his place. At 
                                        Mitchell
                                     a man by the name of Captain Budd was agent when he
                                    went into the army, and a man by the name of Humston took his
                                    place. At 
                                        Bedford
                                     a man by the name of Peter Vestal was agent; at 
                                        Bloomington
                                     a man by the name of Carter; at Gosport a man by
                                    the name of Johns who was murdered in the ticket office; at 
                                        Quincy
                                    , 
                                        Arnold
                                    ; at 
                                        Greencastle
                                     a man by the name of Arp was agent. I give you this
                                    list, and could give you the names of all the engines and those
                                    that manufactured them.
                        Tom Burch, an old Englishman, was for fifty years In the baggage
                                    room in 
                                        New Albany
                                    , a member of your church and everybody knew him.
                                    John Donaldson ran the old "
                                        New Albany
                                    ", an Englishman. Mr. Bennett. the father
                                    of Rev. Bennett, who is now pastor of the DePauw church at 
                                        New Albany
                                    , was the head blacksmith. Tom Lanahan was the boss
                                    carpenter and repairer in the car department.
                        W. W. Wellman was one of the old conductors, born and raised in 
                                        Orange county
                                    . He married J. K. Woodward's daughter in 
                                        New Albany
                                    . Abe Haynes was one of the old conductors, Sam
                                    Boruff another. E. W. Blunk, Charlie Maynard and Blain Marshall
                                    were the old line conductors who had charge of passenger trains
                                    in those days. Marshall went south and was superintendent of the 
                                        Louisville
                                     and 
                                        Nashville
                                     Railroad during the war.
                        Now as to myself: I started on the 
                                        New Albany
                                     and 
                                        Salem
                                     Road carrying water on a gravel train for three
                                    summers, washing out coaches and cleaning windows in the winter
                                    months in the 
                                        Lafayette
                                     yards. From there I was promoted to a peanut boy on
                                    Mr. Compton's train from 
                                        New Albany
                                     to 
                                        Lafayette
                                    . His son is now the general manager of the 
                                        Louisville
                                     and 
                                        Nashville
                                     system south of the Ohio
                                    river, and it contains nine thousand miles of
                                    railroad. From being a peanut boy they gave me a job as
                                    brake-man on a freight train which I held for four years; from
                                    there on to the 
                                        Mitchell
                                     night train, and was promoted from there to conduct
                                    the same train on which I had many ups and downs.
                        Oh, those were days!
                        Travel just after the war was mild only in spots and in between
                                    the conductor had something besides fares and stations to
                                    attract his attention. Between 
                                        New Albany
                                     and 
                                        Michigan City
                                    , Ind., there are points still on the map that rise
                                    to memory dear and painful. But fast followed the days marked
                                    only by schedule risks of life on the rail, and my bones grew
                                    back in original grooves. A bunch of drummers that beat me up at 
                                        Ladoga
                                     subsequently sent me a leather medal with a box of
                                    cigars tied to it, and a 
                                    baseball crowd that tried to break car windows with nie at 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                     elected me an honorary umpire of the 
                                        Athens
                                     league. They declared that my
                                    'responding' powers were too highly
                                    cultivated to be wasted. But I buried the coupling pin along in
                                    '83 and kept the brakeman in training.
                        At those times soldiers lay around the depots awaiting to go to
                                    the army or coming back. All depots had convenient saloons, and
                                    will say at 
                                        Orleans
                                     without exception one at one end of the platform.
                        I was promoted to the day train No. 3 and 4 between 
                                        New Albany
                                     and 
                                        Lafayette
                                    , and this 1 held until I was elected auditor of
                                    Floyd county, and then at the request of the company I ran it
                                    three months in the winter and at the same time was auditor of
                                    the county. I served sixteen years and two months as auditor of
                                    that county, was appointed by 
                                        Cleveland
                                     collector of internal revenue, was elected to the
                                    legislature, and was chairman of tlie Railroad Committee. I have
                                    been elected twice as delegate to the National (Democratic)
                                    Convention, and have served two terms as chairman of the
                                    district committee and four for the county. I am here now at 
                                        Washington
                                     as doorkeeper of the Members'
                                    Families' gallery. I always had a great aspiration to
                                    go up, and I certainly did go as far as my education would
                                    permit me to go. It was my great fortune to land right under the
                                    dome of the Capitol, my office being located there.
                        Bishop Bowman (then President of Asbury, now Depauw, University)
                                    I will ever remember as being my best adviser when young. I love
                                    his memory today, and when he went down to the Five-Mile Lane
                                    (below 
                                        New Albany
                                    ) and dedicated Embury church, I made a little talk
                                    to those old farmers and said it was a shame we could not
                                    dedicate that church. I surprised them all by giving fifty
                                    dollars because I was a guest of Bishop Bowman. I remember the
                                    old presiding elder days, and it would take them two days to
                                    come from French Lick when they came in frozen and muddy through
                                    a week or two weeks' hard labor attending to their
                                    ministerial work, such as your father (Error; Perhaps
                                    Talbott—J. P.), Welker and Kiger. Those were days
                                    when they had to labor in the performance of the duty they were
                                    called to.
                        In the days of your going to school at 
                                        Greencastle
                                     the conductors were John Bently, Dan Bonsall, Billy
                                    Garrett, Tom Hani on, Henry Williams, and Andy Mcintosh, who
                                    married DePauw's daughter. James Brooks was president
                                    of the old 
                                        New Albany
                                     road. There is a stone a mile and a half south of
                                    Smithville. it lies on the left hand side of the track. It was
                                    blown out there by Brook's management on placing
                                    sixteen kegs of powder. In those days if anything happened in
                                    the Smithville hill, the boys would refer it to the distance
                                    from Brook's monument. Lots of accidents and deaths
                                    which I could state to you happened on the line of this road
                                    that I know of and they would make an interesting book.
                        
                                    Your friend,
                                    THOMAS HANLON.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Catholic Education in Indiana; Past and Present
            BY MRS. ELIZABETH
                        DENEHIE, 
                        Terre Haute
                    
            
            From the earliest beginnings the Catholics have maintained that education and
                    religion must go hand in hand; that morality is best taught when based on
                    religion, and finally that education cannot be severed from religion without an
                    intrinsic loss to the former.
            All students are wont to quote Spenser, who defines education as the
                    "preparation for complete living." If we accept this
                    definition, which is very praiseworthy, shall we not say then that the Catholics
                    are building their system of education on a firm foundation? Who will deny that
                    "complete living" necessitates a thorough knowledge of
                    religion, ethics and morality, as well as the purely secular training offered in
                    our public schools?
            Because of this Catholic idea of education, it seems but logical that we first
                    turn our attention to the work of the Catholic missionaries as an educational
                    force in Indiana. The first invaders of a new coutnry are generally hunters,
                    traders and missionaries, and this of course is true of the country that came in
                    time to be Indiana. When we think of Indiana as still a component part of that
                    splendid stretch of country called the Northwest Territory, we can get our first
                    glimpse of the Catholics at work as the pioneers in education in Indiana. The
                    country adjacent to the Great Lakes and 
                        Canada
                     is still rich in cherished memories of a great work done by Jesuit
                    priests, who early traversed the paths that were to open the gateway to
                    civilization in the Hoosier State.
            These priests from across the sea, from homes of refinement and culture,
                    renouncing all earthly ties of affection and duty, and entering into this
                    unknown land upon a field of spiritual work, lived lowly lives in close
                    communion with their swarthy flocks, which were scattered over a wide expanse of
                    territory. They associated intimately with them, and hence could help them in
                    various ways.
            
            Perhaps we have a vague notion that these Jesuits came, talked religion, built
                    churches here and there, but accomplished nothing of real value to us living
                    here now. However, this idea must be rectified, for is it not a lasting honor to
                    any man or woman who has the courage of his convictions to take the initiative
                    in any great work that will raise humanity to a higher plane? These missionaries
                    were not seeking man-made glory, nor ascendancy of power, nor material wealth;
                    they followed the dictates of their consciences and became the means by which
                    this new country was opened and made more habitable and promising to those less
                    fearless than themselves.
            We must keep in mind that the Jesuits, as our priests today, must engage in and
                    complete a systematic course of college as well as theologic training. Between
                    1611 and 1791 there came three hundred and twenty of these Jesuits, who taught
                    many of the people who were the forbears of much of Indiana's
                    population today, and we will give them the credit for having done a good work.
            At this juncture in the story, it seems well to mention that in the Treaty of
                    1763, when 
                        France
                     ceded to 
                        England
                     all the territory east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     as well as 
                        Canada
                    , she inserted a provision bearing on the religious rights of the
                    people. The proviso was that all Roman Catholics might continue in the worship
                    of that church without being molested.
            Bearing more directly upon the history of Indiana was the work of Father Pierre
                    Gibault. It was he who, in 1778, enthused the people of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, to take the oath of allegiance to the government of the 
                        United States
                    . He actually administered the oath himself to these French
                    followers of his faith, in the rude little church of St. Xavier's in
                    that village. Father Gibault had paved the way for the Americans by teaching to
                    the people of his missions the issues and their significance, which caused the
                    war between 
                        England
                     and America. In his kind but masterful way he was able to present
                    this subject of democracy, its aims and hopes, to his people so that he induced
                    them to declare for the 
                        United States
                     as against 
                        England
                    . Without education on his own part and an ability to dispense it to
                    his followers, there might have been a different story to tell about Indiana.
                    Father  Gibault worked in harmony with
                    George Rogers Clark, and indeed shares the honors for having accomplished the
                    conquest of the Northwest Territory. The late Hon. William H. English of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in his history says, "During the long period between
                    Father Gibault's arrival in the 
                        Illinois Country
                     and the capture of 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , he was a leading character in everything pertaining to the
                    spiritual, social, educational and material prosperity of the ancient French
                    villages."
            History records that the first known regular school in the State of Indiana was
                    that of the Catholic priests, Father Rivet, at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1793.
            Alongside that honor belongs the credit to the Catholics of inaugurating and
                    establishing free school education in Indiana, the first free school in the
                    State being that of the Right Reverend William G. Brute, the first bishop of the
                    old Diocese of 
                        Vincennes
                    , in 1834. Among the most discouraging surroundings and also against
                    the expressed judgment of his non-Catholic neighbors and acquaintances, besides
                    the remonstrance of his own flock, he practically gave rise to the system by
                    making, in 1834, the schools which he had just established at 
                        Vincennes
                     free to all, whether Catholic or non-Catholic, without any
                    reservation whatsoever. This start for free education, it must be remembered,
                    was made twenty years before the present system of free public schools was
                    established in Indiana.
            There is an erroneous opinion among some people that about all the parochial
                    schools teach is religion. This belief also needs to have a little light shine
                    upon it. Always, as today, the Catholic parochial schools have interwoven
                    religious and secular training; but Catholics are not opposed to universal
                    education, or to taxation for schools, or to compulsory education. Neither do
                    they oppose any methods or contrivances of whatever kind which may assist in the
                    diffusion of knowledge to the masses. But parochial schools do insist, moreover,
                    that a knowledge of religion is the primal and most essential element of true
                    human culture.
            For the most part the regular work in our Indiana parochial schools begins at
                    8:30 in the morning, when one regular period is given over to catechism
                    instruction. Once or twice a week the time of another recitation unit is given
                    over  to Bible history. These are about the
                    only directly religious subjects taught in our parochial schools. However, in
                    some of the grades, more frequently in the lower, when the mind is in its best
                    stage of plasticity, Catholic readers and some other distinctively Catholic
                    text-books are used. For the remaining grades many of the text-books are those
                    approved by the State and hence do not differ from those of the public school.
            At present there are in the State of Indiana two hundred nineteen parochial
                    schools presided over by about thirty-eight hundred teachers.
            All Catholics must pay double taxation for the maintenance of schools because for
                    the greater part all parochial schools are kept up by tuition paid by the
                    parents to the head of the school. Wherever a parish is able, there are schools
                    maintained by a special fund, and such schools are free. Frequently it happens
                    that a wealthy individual dies and leaves an endowment to maintain free Catholic
                    schools. But generally speaking, Catholics are required to pay taxes into the
                    public school fund as well as to maintain their own schools.
            While this work is a hardship on some, still the Catholics are alive to the needs
                    of their children and bear the burden as graciously as possible. In Catholic
                    parochial schools the tuition is ordinarily fifty cents per month. In cases of
                    people too poor to meet this obligation arrangements are made with the pastor to
                    remit even this small amount.
            A rather remarkable state of affairs prevails at 
                        Jasper
                    , Indiana. In this little town of some four or five thousand
                    inhabitants all are Catholics save about four hundred. Here all schools are
                    presided over by Catholic sisters, but State textbooks are used by the pupils
                    the same as in public schools. For the Catholic pupils instruction in catechism
                    is given from 8:30 to 9 a. m. The small minority of Protestants do not have to
                    come until 9 o'clock, at which hour regular school work begins. These
                    sisters take the regular State examination and receive their salaries from the
                    public school fund. I am told that this arrangement in 
                        Jasper
                     is quite harmonious and agreeable to everybody.
            While we do not hear of the Catholic teachers taking the teachers'
                    examination on the last Saturdays of the month,  nevertheless they attend a school and take a normal
                    course of three years, and many complete college courses before teaching in the
                    parochial schools. They then must pass a satisfactory examination before
                    receiving their appointments. Every Catholic sister in the school is constantly
                    urged to fit herself to teach the higher grades, and so they are not allowed to
                    get into that blissful stage of a "finished education."
                    Promotions come with the capabilities displayed by the sisters. When we consider
                    for a moment that the majority of the Catholic high schools are now commissioned
                    and certificates from the eighth grades accepted without entrance examination,
                    we must concede the fact that parochial schools are doing a high standard of
                    work. All over the State of Indiana parochial schools are working towards
                    standardization and are endeavoring to keep up with the best that is offered in
                    education. Many of these schools have introduced courses in domestic science and
                    manual training wherever funds permit, but of course these courses are more or
                    less limited by finances.
            The parochial school system is diocesan in its organization. The supreme
                    educational authority is the bishop, who administers and governs the schools of
                    his diocese through the assistance of a school board. The immediate authority is
                    vested in the pastor, whose task it is to provide a building, salaries,
                    teachers, etc. The principal of the school is usually appointed by the religious
                    community to which she belongs. There is a strong tendency and much has already
                    been done towards unifying and systematizing our parochial schools. During the
                    summer different institutes are held similar to public school normal sessions,
                    only lasting a shorter time, usually about six weeks. Our local sisters attend
                    St. Mary's of the Woods to avail themselves of this summer training.
                    In 1911 the Sisters' College, under the auspices of the Catholic
                    University of America, was opened in 
                        Washington
                    , 
                        D. C
                    , and there Catholic sisters may attend courses in professional
                    training
            The sisters in the parochial schools do not mingle with the world in a large
                    sense, but rather isolate themselves, keeping in mind the training of the
                    children entrusted to their care and little else. They have no ties calling for
                    the expenditure  of time outside of their
                    religious and professional worlds and hence can indulge in careful, quiet,
                    thoughtful study, which is indeed a fruitful field for the teacher who would
                    succeed.
            The salaries of parochial teachers range from about two hundred to three hundred
                    dollars per year, this being about one-half the amount paid to public school
                    teachers for the same grades. Catholic sisters are far removed from entering the
                    profession for utilitarian purposes. Other fields are open to them, but they
                    choose teaching because it appeals to them as conducive to the greatest good to
                    the greatest number. The teachers are Catholic nuns in all parochial schools,
                    except perhaps in some outlying country districts where it is preferable to have
                    a man instructor.
            Not only did the Catholics blaze the way for education in the State of Indiana,
                    but they have also remained at their post, pursuing higher education as well. As
                    evidence of their earnestness in this field, Indiana now has twenty-four
                    Catholic colleges and academies, all in good financial standing as well as being
                    accredited with the colleges maintained by the State.
            As types of Catholic schools for higher education, I will recount briefly the
                    history of four of these. Our attention is first drawn to St. Mary's
                    of the Woods, for this is the pioneer conventual school, established in Indiana
                    in 1840. On October 22, 1840, six sisters belonging to the Order of 
                        Providence
                     arrived from Ruille Sur Loir, 
                        France
                    , to begin a great task.
            Primarily, they purposed to teach their students right conduct, and to teach them
                    culture and the value of sestheticism through the medium of art, languages and
                    literature. Music and philosophy were also to aid in the process of developing
                    refinement and all the fine ideals that the world regards as more purely
                    womanly. The sisters thought and proposed to inculcate their ideas in the minds
                    of their students by constant vigilance, and by zealously guarding them against
                    any influences that might hinder such development. By their companionship with
                    the girls and by emphasizing always the highest ideals of womanhood, they sought
                    so to mold their characters that they would possess minds well equipped to enter
                         and influence human society and
                    institutional life. Later in the history of St. Mary's of the Woods
                    science and other branches were added to the curriculum, to meet the evergrowing
                    demand of a well-rounded education.
            The illustrious but unassuming leader of the six who first came to St.
                    Mary's of the Woods was Mother Theresa Guerin, widely celebrated for
                    her beneficent and religious activities. Today at St. Mary's are the
                    highly prized gold medals Mother Guerin earned at the French Academy in 
                        Paris
                    . These had been given her with the plaudits of the court and
                    religious authorities.
            To be able to image clearly the conditions encountered by Mother Guerin upon her
                    arrival, I quote her words:
            "Suddenly we stopped hi the midst of a dense forest. It was growing
                    dark. Father Beteux briefly announced that we had arrived. We were perfectly
                    silent; the gravity of the moment excluded any loquacity. Imagine our
                    astonishment upon finding ourselves still in the midst of the forest, no
                    village, not even a house in sight. Walking a short distance down the hill, we
                    beheld through the trees on the other side of the ravine a log house with a shed
                    in the rear. 'There' said the good priest, 'is
                    the farm house, where the postulants awaiting you have a room in which you may
                    lodge until your house is completed.' "1
            
            To many people the Catholic nuns are a quiet, shy, retiring set of women with no
                    interest outside a narrow little sphere; but such notable examples as the
                    saintly Mother Guerin and her little band prove the depth of character, the
                    nobility of a fearless life and a sustaining courage not usually accredited to
                    womankind.
            The great advocates of woman suffrage are unearthing all the examples of heroines
                    who have influenced the world's history. Frequently we hear of the
                    women who have been factors in the reformation of slum and tenement districts,
                    or of workers on the child labor question and many other momentous questions.
                    These ideals are all praiseworthy, but it were well not to forget the grandeur
                    of the work, exemplified in Mother Guerin, who, modestly and unnoticed by the
                    world, has established a monument that will be handed down to posterity as a
                    means for great good to a vast number of people.
            Arriving October 22, 1840, Mother Guerin found three or 
                  
                     1. Life of Mother Guerin-Betuex
               
                     four little log huts scattered among the
                    woods, one of which was used as a chapel. A short distance farther were the
                    half-finished walls of what was to be St. Mary's Academy. At last
                    they were domiciled in Indiana, a place they had come far to find. At once they
                    went to work to learn the language of their newly adopted country. They also
                    rolled logs and assisted in the clearing of one hundred thirteen acres that the
                    bishop had bought to be the site of the school. Despite most delicate health,
                    Mother Guerin was the life and soul of every endeavor, keeping up the spirit of
                    these exiles and directing their hopes to the future. Growth was slow, but four
                    months after their arrival sixteen persons had assumed the training of
                    postulants in their religious life. In short trips to 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Mother Guerin took occasion to visit schools and consult with the
                    missionaries in regard to the best manner of conducting her work. She had taught
                    seventeen years as superior in one of the largest establishments in 
                        France
                     before coming over.
            In 1841, a year after her arrival, Sister Guerin was ready to open a boarding
                    school in their now finished six-room brick school. Displaying her absolute
                    faith in the Maker, she said: "We must make a beginning and trust to 
                        Providence
                    . If it is God's work it will not fail." On July
                    the fourth the first pupil presented herself, and on the next day four more
                    came. At last the new work was launched—an American school opened for
                    American girls, with classes both in French and English. From the very inception
                    of St. Mary's Institute, as it was then called, the higher education
                    of women was its prime object. In 1846 the charter granted by the Indiana
                    legislature empowered the sisters to confer degrees when time and progress would
                    authorize it. Mother Guerin was not satisfied to conduct a boarding school only,
                    but was indeed blessed with the capacity of vision. Her great desire to extend
                    her good work in Indiana materialized in a number of missions scattered
                    throughout the State and all were under her supervision.
            In 1889 St. Mary's of the Woods was visited by a very disastrous fire,
                    which caused about $18,000 damage. Much of it, however, was covered
                    by insurance. The fire came when  the men
                    who worked about the school were two miles distant cutting ice, so the work of
                    fighting the fire devolved upon the sisters and pupils. A message to 
                        Terre Haute
                     resulted in the dispatch of eight hundred feet of hose. This
                    arrived at St. Mary's over the old wagon road, consuming about
                    three-quarters of an hour. Through many vicissitudes and trials, St.
                    Mary's of the Woods has risen from the most meager beginning to one
                    of the finest and most up-to-date academies and colleges in the 
                        United States
                    . The whole keynote of this marvelous growth is found in one of
                    Mother Guerin's maxims, I think. She said, "Let us make no
                    account of our personal feelings except to sacrifice them." This was
                    what she did in very truth.
            From the time of alighting from the train and going up to the entrance of the
                    college one has ample time to think about the vastness of the undertaking of the
                    founder of St. Mary's of the Woods. The approach to the college as it
                    now stands is a very long driveway, perhaps equal in length to several city
                    blocks. There, away from all noise, sequestered among sturdy old trees of early
                    Indiana history the magnificent buildings, stands the work of the good Sisters
                    of 
                        Providence
                    . During the last twenty-five years the institution has shown
                    remarkable growth. From a poor frame building St. Mary's of the Woods
                    has expanded to an array of buildings massive, elegant and adapted to all the
                    growing needs of a first-class college. It encloses within its precincts a six
                    hundred-acre plot and is a little world in itself. It is self-governing,
                    self-sustaining and presents all the charm of sylvan environment, yet possessing
                    all modern conveniences. The principal buildings are arranged in a semi-circle
                    with a frontage of eleven hundred feet. A beautiful white stone church occupies
                    the center of the group. To the east is the convent and to the north is the
                    normal training school for those who aspire to become members of the community.
                    A dormitory to house the students, a conservatory of music, a gymnasium and
                    natatorium are all elegant structures and form a part of the whole, to say
                    nothing of the pharmacy, laundry, bakery, power house, kitchen and other
                    buildings. Every summer the sisters return to this mother house at St.
                    Mary's of the Woods  from the
                    cities in which they have been engaged during the scholastic year. A regular
                    normal institute is conducted there, during which lecture courses and studio
                    work by eminent educators, professors and artists are given. A new college hall
                    known as the Ann Therese Guerin hall now houses the college students who desire
                    professional training. Normal courses of three years are also maintained with
                    special courses along all lines for those who care to specialize. The work being
                    done at St. Mary's of the Woods is now up to the standard of the best
                    colleges in the 
                        United States
                    . First chartered, as has been said, to confer degrees in the
                    college work, the power was confirmed and extended in 1908 by the legislature of
                    Indiana. St. Mary's of the Woods is accredited as a standard college
                    by the Indiana State Department of Education and is affiliated with the Catholic
                    University of America, 
                        Washington
                    , 
                        D. C.
                    
            
            In the crypt beneath the main altar of the church now repose the hallowed remains
                    of Sister Guerin, founder and leader in this great work. With a little stretch
                    of the imagination one could imagine himself in the Catacombs underlying 
                        Rome
                     as he slowly follows the winding passages to this little tomb of so
                    noble a woman. The air of quiet reverence and sanctity pervaded the whole
                    atmosphere and for a few minutes one loses himself in thought of the power that
                    enabled Sister Guerin to undertake such a great work, so far away from her home,
                    in an alien land, among unknown people.
            During the last scholastic year there were about two hundred students at St.
                    Mary's of the Woods. These Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     now have twenty-nine missions. Aside from the school work the
                    Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     are engaged throughout the country in hospitals, where as nurses
                    they are devoting their lives to nursing the sick back to health. Many are also
                    engaged in charity work of one kind or another while many are caring for the
                    orphans in Catholic asylums, scattered here and there.
            On the whole the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     are exercising a far-reaching influence, doing noble work along
                    educational, religious, and charitable lines in many different communities and,
                    while their accomplishments are not heralded abroad,  nevertheless results prove their courage,
                    self-sacrifice, and perseverance.
            The University of Notre Dame traces its humble origin back to 1842. Father Sorin
                    with seven brothers of The Holy Cross set out for a new location of their
                    school. For a year previous the Holy Cross Community was located at St.
                    Peter's about twenty-seven miles from 
                        Vincennes
                     in 
                        Daviess county
                    . It had been in contemplation to erect a college at this point but
                    as there was already a Catholic college at 
                        Vincennes
                    , the bishop demurred and offered the community a tract of land he
                    owned on the St. Joseph river, provided a college should be
                    erected there within two years. After consideration the brothers accepted and
                    set out for the new place. After travelling through the wilderness in bitterly
                    cold weather they stood on the ice-bound shore of lake St. Mary, November 28,
                    enchanted with the marvelous beauties of the scene of their future labors. The
                    total amount of money at the command of the young community on its arrival at
                    the lakes, was $1,500. Material and labor were volunteered and a log
                    structure, 24 x 46 feet, was erected in December, but was not dedicated until
                    March 19, 1843. But this building was needed for other purposes than a chapel
                    and a second story was added as a dormitory for the sisters, who were expected
                    to arrive from 
                        France
                     the same spring to take charge of the domestic department of the
                    university and a little Indian chapel, erected by Father Badin about 1830, was
                    utilized as a dormitory for the brothers. The exchequer was exhausted and 1842
                    passed without the erection of the contemplated building. A square house, now
                    known as the farm house was erected at the edge of the lake, in 1843. This
                    served for collegiate purposes for nearly a year, the first pupil being Alexis
                    Coquillard, afterward the wealthy wagon-maker of 
                        South Bend
                    . The terms per quarter for students were fixed at eighteen dollars
                    for tuition, board, washing and mending. Like all other institutions, the growth
                    was gradual and in 1844 the legislature gave Notre Dame university power to
                    grant degrees. Literature and oratory have been cultivated from the very
                    beginning at Notre Dame, dramatic and debating clubs were
                    formed and many were the  orations heard
                    even in its early days. Father Sorin (1842-1865) was the first president of
                    Notre Dame and Father Patrick Dillon the second (1865-1866). The present
                    president is Father Cavanaugh. There are now six distinct colleges at
                        Notre Dame offering twenty-two different courses. It is
                    making great progress in arts, letters, science, engineering, architecture and
                    law, and possesses the latest and most complete equipment. The main library has
                    75,000 volumes and 16,000 manuscripts. In the general museum the historical
                    collection is especially noteworthy and valuable. Notre Dame is doing for the
                    American youth what St. Mary's of the Woods is doing for American
                    girls; to give them a thorough understanding of secular training added to an
                    appreciation for the religious side, which makes for the broadest possible
                    culture.
            Located one mile west of Notre Dame is St. Mary's Academy conducted by
                    sisters of the Holy Cross. It was established by Father Sorin also in 1844, in 
                        Bertram
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    . In 1855 the community moved from Bertram to St. Mary's
                    in 
                        St. Joseph county
                    , Indiana, the present site of the mother-house of the Sisters of
                    the Holy Cross. In 1857, the union of temporal interests between Notre Dame and
                    St. Mary's was severed and a separate administration has been
                    maintained ever since, though by special privilege Rev. E. Sorin was allowed to
                    act as ecclesiastical superior over both congregations, that composed of the
                    priests and brothers and that of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. About this time
                    Mother M. Angela, a woman imbued with the highest religious aspirations and
                    endowed with rare mental gifts was elected provincial and until her death in
                    1887, she held the office. Today St. Mary's Academy is a city in
                    itself including a system of buildings, connected yet distinct, embodying
                    college, academy, music hall, convent, loretto, presbytery, infirmary, laundry,
                    etc. It is built in the form of a T and every room is an outside room with an
                    abundance of daylight and fresh air. The course of studies is as extensive, long
                    and thorough as long experience in teaching and a large and capable staff can
                    make it. The degree of excellence attained at St.  Mary's in the musical and art
                    departments has long been recognized by people all over the country. While
                    special attention is given to the fine arts, they are not cultivated to the
                    neglect of the practical sciences, as a visit to the classes of Natural
                    Philosophy and Chemistry would fully demonstrate, no pains having been spared to
                    secure a physical cabinet worthy the name and as a result, the academy at St.
                    Mary's has a collection of instruments from the best manufacturing
                    establishments of Europe for illustrating the laws of sound, light, electricity,
                    heat and magnetism as well as the principles of mechanics. The Sisters of the
                    Holy Cross at St. Mary's have three objects: education, the care of
                    the sick, and the care of the orphans. St. Mary's is constantly
                    growing and bids fair to become one of the largest Catholic institutions in the 
                        United States
                    .
            The convent of the Franciscan Fathers at 
                        Oldenburg
                     came into being under its present name August 7, 1866. It is
                    located in 
                        Franklin county
                    , Indiana, and in 1868 a class of clerics belonging to the same
                    province took up their residence here in order to pursue their studies in
                    preparation for the holy priesthood. The convent of the Sisters of St. Francis,
                    at 
                        Oldenburg
                     was established in 1850 by Rev. F. J. Rudolph. On January 6, 1851,
                    the first steps were taken towards the founding of a teaching community with the
                    auspicious aid of Sister, M. Theresa. She became its first superior general
                    under the title of Mother. The old convent was reconstructed in 1899-1901. The
                    community has advanced steadily, though under great difficulties. The
                    mother-house at 
                        Oldenburg
                     consists of the convent proper, the novitiate, the infirmary, the
                    academy and other buildings. At present (1916) Oldenburg numbers seventy-three
                    mission schools in which 13,500 children are educated. These schools are located
                    mainly in Indiana, 
                  Illinois,
                            Ohio, Kentucky
                and 
                        Kansas
                    . The mother general always has been and still is its president with
                    the di-rectoress as vice-president. In 1876 the conservatory of music was added
                    to the academy building.
            The grounds at 
                        Oldenburg
                     comprise 400 acres and the church which was built at a cost of
                    $80,000 is one of the  finest
                    structures in the State. In 1900 a new convent was completed and dedicated; the
                    same year the community of St. Francis Sisters celebrated their golden jubilee.
                    The efficiency of this school has been recognized by the Indiana State Board of
                    Education and its normal department has been accredited by the State
                    Teachers' Training Board.
         
         
         
            Grand 
                        Prairie
                     Harmonical Institute
            By HARRY EVANS, Superintendent of 
                        Warren County
                     Schools
            IN 1851 a company of people who felt that their best interests
                    could be better served by a community form of living, organized the
                    "Grand 
                        Prairie
                     Harmonical Institute," or, as it was more generally known,
                    "The Community Farm." This was located in 
                        Prairie
                     township, 
                        Warren county
                    , Indiana, where Wiliam Goodacre now lives. This farm at one time
                    comprised about 350 acres. It was the intention of the founders of the
                    institution to teach handicraft, especially black-smithing, carpentry and allied
                    trades, and to allow students to work their way through the school.
            The country was entirely new, much of the soil was still covered with the native
                    verdure; game was plentiful, deer, geese, ducks, cranes and prairie chickens
                    could be seen in great numbers at almost any season of the year. Their attempt,
                    at this distance, seems unique. An unimproved country where there was little
                    need of skilled labor was to become the seat of an institution of learning where
                    the pupils were to be taught various trades. To us it seems that such an attempt
                    was the limit of the visionary. The Transcendental-ists at the Brook Farm in 
                        Massachusetts
                     and the Owen experiment at 
                        New Harmony
                     seem now to have been as vague as this little colony set down in
                    the midst of a vast prairie country with no neighbors and no demand for their
                    work.
            The first president and one of the moving spirits in the enterprise was John O.
                    Wattles, a man who had a more than ordinary education and who had spent some
                    time at 
                        New Harmony
                    , where he may have imbided some of the communistic ideas of the
                    Owens's. The Wattles family consisted of Mr. and Mrs. Wattles and
                    their three daughters, Lucretia Celestia, Harmonia and Pheano (or Theanna, as it
                    is spelled in a deed). Lucretia Celestia was born at "Fryback
                    Hall," an institution similar to the Harmonical Institute and located
                    in 
                        Pine
                     township, a few miles east of the "Community
                    Farm." She had a right to such a name, for her mother had travelled  all day in the rough conveyance of that
                    time and had reached Fryback Hall in the evening. That night, during a most
                    severe storm, the little one made her entrance into the world about two
                    o'clock in the morning.
            Horace Greeley was said to have been a silent member of the Grand Frairie
                    Harmonical Institute company, one deed showing him to be a trustee. John Gass,
                    father of Will Gass, of Attica, was another prominent member and at one time the
                    treasurer. Alvin High, Cyrus Romine and a number of others were connected with
                    the movement. The school was managed by a board of trustees, of whom Ida
                    Greeley, Thomas Truesdale, Alvin High and John Gass were the last to hold
                    office. For a time a number of families seemed to have lived the common life,
                    but, like all such experiments, it failed. While the race is gregarious, there
                    must be a certain amount of rivalry to make life a success. We seem to need the
                    stimulus of competition to spur us on to do the best that is in us. Whatever the
                    cause of failure in this particular experiment of community living, it lasted
                    little more than a year.
            The property remained in the hands of the trustees for nearly twenty years, when
                    an order from the 
                        United States
                     District Court for Indiana gave possession of the land to Mrs.
                    Wattles. The family had been away for some time, going to 
                        Kansas
                    , where Mr. Wattles had tried to carry out his favorite idea of
                    common living. After his death, which occurred about the beginning of the Civil
                    War, his widow, desiring to educate her children, moved to 
                        Oberlin
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , where she placed them in the college at that place. Later she sold
                    to Isaac C. Anderson and James McDaniel the land the court had decreed to her
                    and thus ended another altruistic experiment.
            For years the "Community House" was a noted landmark. Its site
                    on the top of what was the highest ridge of land anywhere near made it
                    conspicuous. Then there is always a sort of charm and at least a little air of
                    mystery about such a place. Fancy may build golden dreams of higher forms of
                    life where competition shall be forever banished, rivalry unknown and the Golden
                    Rule the measure of our actions.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            CENTENNIAL PAGEANTS
            
            DURING September and October a number of successful Centennial
                    Pageants were given in the State. At Hunting-burg, September 22, the 
                        Dubois County
                     Pageant was given under the direction of Genevieve MacDonald
                    Williams, George R. Wilson acting as historian. The five episodes were
                    "The French and Indians at 
                        Vincennes
                    ," "The Pioneers," "Captain
                    Dubois," "County History," "Union
                    Soldiers." The Hunting-burg papers have published a large amount of
                    local history, and a number of historical markers have been erected at
                    historical spots in the county by local societies, assisted by Mr. Wilson.
            September 7, at 
                        Cannelton
                    , the 
                        Perry County
                     Pageant was held. Thomas J. de la Hunt was county chairman, wrote
                    the pageant and staged it, city and county supporting him loyally. The episodes
                    were: "Arrival of Pioneer Settlers," "News from the
                    War of 1812," "Landing of Lincoln Family at 
                        Troy
                    ," "
                        Lafayette
                    's Steamboat Wreck at 
                        Rock Island
                    ," "Training Day," "Cannelton
                    Cotton Mills," "Swiss Colonization Society,"
                    "Confederate Invasion," "Celebration at End of
                    War." The county papers, especially the 
                        Cannelton
                    
                    Telephone, published a number of good historical articles, and
                    the Women's Club of 
                        Cannelton
                     dedicated a marker at 
                        Lafayette
                     Springs in honor of 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            September 21, 
                        New Albany
                     celebrated the Centennial in a Pageant on the banks of Silver
                    Creek. The Pageant was written and directed by Prin. Charles B. McLinn. The
                    episodes were, "The Indians and Lasalle," "Clark at
                    Corn Island," "The Pioneers," "The
                    Wedding," "Passing of the Settlers," "The
                    Indian Attack," the "Circuit Rider," and the
                    "Governor's Ball."
            October 5, 6, and 7, White county celebrated with a Pageant in a beautiful,
                    natural amphitheatre on the banks of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     at 
                        Monticello
                    . Supt. James M. Leffel was chairman of the centennial association,
                    Miss Emma B. Shealey  was pageant master and
                    W. H. Hamelle, historian. The episodes were, "The Indian,"
                    "The Pioneer," "The State," and
                    "The Civil War." The display of relics was most surprising and
                    interesting. The 
                        Monticello
                     papers aided by publishing a goodly number of historical articles
                    prepared by Mr. Hamelle.
         
         
            
               The New Purchase or Seven and a Half Years in the Far West.
                    BY ROBERT CAKLTON, (BAYNARD R. HALL) edited by JAMES ALBERT WOODBURN, Professor of American
                    History, Indiana University, 1916; 
                  Princeton, Princeton
                University Press, pp. 522
                    ($2.00).
            BAYNARD HALL, the writer of the volume, was
                    the first and only principal of the Indiana Seminary which from 1824 to 1829
                    preceded Indiana College. The volume describes his trip to, and work in and
                    around 
                        Bloomington
                     from the spring of 1823 to the fall of 1830. The title of the book,
                        The New Purchase, is misleading, since he only made two
                    brief journeys into that part of the State. The towns named and referred to, 
                        Bloomington
                    , 
                        Gosport
                    , 
                        Palestine
                    , 
                        Salem
                    , 
                        Fairplay
                    , 
                        Spencer
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , are not in the New Purchase. There is only one sufficient argument
                    for a new edition of the story, but that argument is enough. As a picture of
                    pioneer life in Indiana it is unequalled, and must necessarily always remain so.
                    Mr. Hall qualified for writing the story by entering fully into the pioneer life
                    around him. He saw and was broad-minded enough to appreciate the sterling
                    character of the settlers. He was also frank enough to point out the
                    unattractive features. The picture is not a burst of sunlight on the snow but a
                    mixture of light and shadow, the light tempered with humor and the shadow
                    tempered with sympathy. The history and geography of the story are so carefully
                    veiled with fictitious names that one can only be sure of his location after
                    careful comparisons. Hoosier character, customs, politics, churches, schools,
                    and home life all come in turn, before the camera. The style of the author is
                    not uniform. At times he is poetic, at times he approaches the humor of Twain
                    but through it all, shows the life training of the man, he cannot help but point
                    a moral. The editorial work consists of an 
                    historical introduction and a few notes. One must admire the restraint of the
                    editor, for almost every sentence of Hall is a fit text for a lecture. The book
                    has always been a great favorite with the editor and it can easily be believed
                    then that the editorial work was a pleasure. However, it is unfortunate that, by
                    oversight, the author's notes were not distinguished from the
                    editor's. Altogether the book is one of the most valuable sources on
                    Indiana history, the more valuable because of the character of the writer and
                    his remarkable opportunity for observation. Every library and school in Indiana
                    should have a copy of this rare old book. (For a fuller description of this book
                    see an article entitled "Local Life and Color in the New
                    Purchase" in this magazine, December, 1913, by Professor James Albert
                    Woodburn.)
         
         
            
               
                  
                     Mount Vernon,
                                Washington
                  's Home and the
                        Nation's Shrine. BY PAUL WILSTACH, 1916. 
                        New York
                    , Doubleday, Page and Company, pp. 301.
            THIS volume might be termed a personal biography of 
                        Washington
                    , as distinguished from that class of biographies which, under title
                    of a personal name, give the histoiy of an era. From Mr. Wilstach's
                    pages one gets the impression of a more than ordinarily beneficent and public
                    spirited farmer but still only what one might expect as the highest type of the 
                        Virginia
                     planter. It is fortunate that Mr. Wilstach has not felt himself
                    called upon the besmirch his portrait in order to make it human. There is a
                    deeper significance in this volume. It is a detailed story of the building up of
                    a great home. 
                        Washington
                     farmed largely for enjoyment. 
                        Mount Vernon
                     was built up as a place where one would wish to live. In a very
                    emphatic way it shows what is possible in greater or less degree on every farm.
                    Finally this volume should increase the regard Americans have for their first
                    President. A little more sentiment of the kind will not be apt to hurt most
                    Americans. The volume is beautifully illustrated– there being fifty
                    cuts, many of them full page. On the front cover is a picture of the 
                        Mount Vernon
                     mansion in white, on a blue color, surrounded with gilt.
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            North Carolina
                         Schools and Academies, 1790-1840–A
                        Documentary History. BY CHARLES
                    L. COON. 1915. Raleigh, The State, pp. 846.
            IN 1908 Mr. Coon published a two-volume documentary history of
                    the Beginnings of Public Education in 
                            North Carolina
                        . The present volume is supplementary to the former. In his
                    first volumes the author treated especially of the support of schools in the
                    public opinion of the times, while the last volume contains materials
                    illustrating their management and every-day conduct. A few of the division heads
                    will show the nature of the material and also how similar conditions there were
                    to those in Indiana a generation or two later: Documents concerning the State
                    Univeristy, its Relations and Influence; Physical Equipment of the Schools;
                    Qualifications of Teachers; Course of Study; Religious Instruction; Methods,
                    Lancastrian Schools; Closing School; Military Schools; Lotteries for the Benefit
                    of Schools; Salaries; Law Schools; and Beginnings of Colleges. An introduction
                    of forty-five pages gives the reader a connected idea of the whole. The
                    documents are collected from various sources but chiefly from the newspapers, a
                    very large proportion being from the Raleigh Register. The
                    editorial work and the printing are good, showing the value of having such work
                    done by one who understands the subject.
         
         
            THE HOOSIER
            
            THE Writers' Club conceived the idea of this
                    magazine last spring. The members of the club felt that if a magazine were to be
                    started at Indiana University it ought to have the backing of an organization.
                    Theirs was the logical organization. The Writers' Club has been
                    social as well as literary in its nature, but this fall it began the policy of
                    electing new members on the basis of literary merit alone. The student who will
                    send in three articles worthy of being published in The
                    Hoosier is eligible to membership. On this basis it has already elected
                    three new members: Miss Ethel Knapp, Richard George Scribner, and Lawrence
                    Wheeler. If at some later time the Writers' Club wishes to resume its
                    social character it will turn the management of the magazine over to an
                    editorial  board. At present it is a working
                    literary organization, and its motto is, as 0. Henry would say,
                    "Strictly Business." The criticism that it is a closed shop is
                    utterly unfounded. The Hoosier is published at the University
                    Press at Blooming-ton, Indiana, on the first of each month during the college
                    year, by the Writers' Club of Indiana University. The aim of The Hoosier is to furnish a medium of expression for the
                    literary life of the University, and its columns are open to undergraduates,
                    alumni, and members of the faculty. The subscription price is one dollar per
                    year; single copies are fifteen cents each.
         
         
            
               Courts and Lawyers of Indiana. By LEANDER
                    J. MONKS. Editor in Chief; LOGAN ESAREY and ERNEST V. SHOCK-LEY, Assistant Editors. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Federal Publishing Company, 1916. Three vols., pp. lxxv 4- 384,
                    527, 526. Illustrated.
            The volumes are continuously paged. The first 535 pages contain a connected
                    history of the State and territorial judiciary, divided into 22 chapters. These
                    chapters deal with such topics as Courts of the Northwest Territory; Courts of
                    Indiana Territory; The Old Circuit Courts; The Circuit Riders; Juries,
                    Prosecutors and Witnesses; Minor Courts; Incidents and Anecdotes of Pioneer
                    Courts; The Old Supreme Court, etc. The second division of the work contains
                    detailed accounts of the organization of the county courts, lists of judges and
                    prosecutors, circuits, attorney-generals, federal judges and 
                        United States
                     Attorneys, with dates for each. This part occupies 600 pages. The
                    third division contains the biographies of the leading lawyers of the State,
                    living and dead. These biographies, about 1,000 in number, have been reduced to
                    the briefest possible form. The aim throughout has been to show the part the
                    courts have played in the development of the State and the relation the lawyers
                    have sustained to society in general. The writers have covered the field fairly
                    well. The editor-in-chief is a lawyer of over a half century's
                    experience, having served 18 years on the supreme bench. His assistants are both
                    college trained men, all Hoosiers, and all alumni of Indiana University. The
                    work  has been as carefully done as time
                    would permit. Documentary records have been used freely both for State and
                    county courts. The statistical tables have been compiled in every case directly
                    from the manuscript records. Some errors in the tables are due to hasty
                    proofreading; for example on page 306 George W. Self is credited with preparing
                    63 volumes of the Supreme Court Reports instead of 14; on page
                    384 the same reporter should be credited with volumes 34 to 48 instead of 34 to
                    58; page 222 of the Supreme Court docket is printed upside down. On the whole it
                    seems few mistakes of this kind have been made. The authors have not hesitated
                    to criticise where it seemed merited nor to praise where it was deserved. An
                    instance of the former is given by way of example on page 526 seq.; of the latter, chapter IV is a worthy tribute to the old Circuit
                    Riders. The general tone of the book is modest. In most instances the writers
                    have been content to let the record speak for itself. The volumes are neatly
                    printed on good paper, tastefully bound in half leather and are provided with an
                    excellent index which renders the vast amount of details easily accessible.
         
         
            
               French Policy and the American Alliance. By EDWARD S. CORWIN, 
                        Princeton
                     University. 
                        Princeton
                    , 1916. 430 pp.
            This book is a history of our first and perhaps only entangling alliance. The
                    first six chapters are devoted to a treatment of motives, underlying conditions
                    and preliminaries of the alliance. The other ten chapters are devoted to an
                    anlysis of the treaty itself, to the attempts of the Americans and French to
                    bring 
                        Spain
                     into the alliance, to the French-Spanish alliance of the following
                    year and its conflicts with the French-American treaty, and finally to the
                    relations of the latter treaty to the treaties of peace of 1782-1783. The author
                    does not deal with the attempts made by 
                        France
                     at times during the first decade of our national government to
                    argue that the treaty of alliance was still in force, but treats it as ending
                    with the event of American Independence.
            While perhaps every statment of fact and every conclusion set forth in the
                    present book has appeared before in secondary works, no single author has
                    attempted to cover precisely the  same field
                    or would agree with all the statements and conclusions of the present author.
                    The present work is, however, no mere bringing together of facts already
                    ascertained by other historians. Everything has been verified and the sources
                    cited. Controverted topics, such as the French desire for ultimate recovery of
                    her possession on the American continent, French desire for American commerce,
                    French desire to make secure her possessions in the West Indies and
                    Vergennes' degree of unfaithfulness to his treaty obligations are all
                    judiciously discussed as controverted subjects, so that the reader may know
                    whenever he is reading of things substantially agreed upon by all or otherwise.
                    At such times other viewpoints are explained, evidences weighed and liberal
                    quotations given from the principal actors in the game.
            In comparison to some other treatments of phases of this subject, the author
                    might be said to take his view from 
                        Paris
                    , making Vergennes the center or clue to the plot. This effect is in
                    some respects the most valuable contribution that the author has brought.
                    Without attempting to show his learned-ness by leading the reader through too
                    much of the maze of Eighteenth century diplomacy, he shows an understanding of
                    the relations of the different countries of the world in the Eighteenth century
                    and to that thing that the diplomats called the balance of power. The author
                    succeeds in getting himself sufficiently up above his subject to get a survey of
                    world movements and relations. He thus gets the American end of this whole thing
                    in its proper perspective and proportion. The part played by American statesmen
                    in drawing 
                        France
                     into the alliance and in determining its interpretation and
                    observance is shown to be distinctly limited, and dependent upon other interests
                    and considerations of European statesmen. French diplomats believed that 
                        France
                     was entitled to be the pivot upon which the balance of power should
                    turn. This balance was somewhat upset at the Peace of 
                        Paris
                     and could be restored by reducing 
                        England
                    's relative position. This could be done by helping to
                    deprive her of her colonies–her source of wealth and power. This
                    must, however, not be done at the expense of disturbing the balance in some
                    other way in Europe, as for instance neglecting or weakening the Family Compact
                    with 
                        Spain
                    . Hence all the bidding for Spanish favor  and support. Hence the French-American treaty at
                    times apparently becomes secondary to the French-Spanish alliance.
            The work has been scientifically done. There are not only references to writers
                    who disagree from the author's viewpoint, as well as to writings of
                    the chief diplomats and agents concerned, but there is an attempt to get at the
                    motives of the latter for writing particular things–realizing that a
                    diplomat may sometimes be writing or talking to mislead. The references to
                    Doniol alone make a pretty good guide to that work. There is a brief, critical
                    bibliographical note, an appendix of twenty-eight pages containing copies of the
                    treaties of 1778 and 1782 as well as four other interesting documents. The index
                    is adequate.
         
         
            THE MAGAZINE is glad to publish the
                    following letter from the author of Historic Indiana, that it
                    may correct any false impression obtained from the review in the last number of
                    the magazine in which the reviewer spoke of the explorations of Lasalle in
                    Indiana:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "Before the second edition of the book was issued,
                                    following the implied suggestion of Mr. 1'arkinau. I
                                    entered into the subject [Lasalle's expedition] with
                                    Canadian authorities, but they ended by regretting the loss of
                                    the explorer's papers. When 1 was in 
                                        France
                                     the last time I hoped to be able to avail myself of
                                    the promised help of the department of research, to examine the
                                    archives of State, for light ou this period of
                                    Lasalle's life, and possible data regarding the
                                    discovery of the 
                                        Wabash
                                    . Unfortunately, serious illness in my family
                                    prevented my research at that time, and I have not been in 
                                        Paris
                                     since.
                        Is there not enough probability in Mr.
                                    I'arkman's impressions of a
                                    'possible lead" to an important historical
                                    fact for some of you younger historians to keep it in mind, and
                                    make the investigations, on which I had started, whenever the
                                    future may open up an opportunity? It was to incite some one to
                                    this search that the paragraph referred to by the reviewer was
                                    included in the chapter.
                        No one has a more profound regard for exact scholarship than the
                                    writer. When the old Librarian at 
                                        New Orleans
                                     wrote to me. several years ago, to say that he had
                                    found the book entirely reliable and the story based on exact
                                    data, that voluntary approval from a stranger who was such an
                                    old student of Northwestern history was very encouraging as is
                                    your recognition of the same fact that the author has not
                                    neglected to avail herself of the authorities, and I may add,
                                    the original sources of the State's history.
                        As -stated in the preface to the first edition, the book was
                                    written to  enlist the
                                    interest of those who might not read the histories, and yet
                                    should know the story of their State's development,
                                    hence facts and dates were not insisted upon. But the author had
                                    a conscience regarding the foundation facts assumed, that they
                                    must be accurate. I hope you may keep the question of
                                    Lasalle's first years of journeying in mind, and find
                                    what the archives of 
                                        France
                                    , and his native village, have to
                                reveal."
                     
                  
               
                
            THIS MAGAZINE is in receipt of three
                    souvenir post cards by Emma Carleton, each containing two stanzas of poetry
                    which are worth preserving. Each card bears an illustration suitable to the
                    sentiment.
            
                    HOME OF MY HEART
                    Where the broad river shining flows Through the wide valley's rich
                        repose, 'Neath the green hills–oh–fair to
                        see! Dear busy town–
                            New Albany
                        !
                    In Time's far distance–brighter still–
                        'Neath bluer skies and greener hill– Blest quiet ways,
                        fond memory's haze– 
                            New Albany
                         of other days!
                    ON SILVER HILLS
                    Up the green valley, break-of-day Bids the night shadows fly away; Fair the
                        fields glisten–born anew To life and beauty–song and
                        dew.
                    Down the green valley sunset dies– The full moon
                        glows–a late bird flies– Peace, like a pure thought,
                        broods afar: O'er the sweet hill-top hangs a star.
                    INDIANA
                    O Indiana, to mine eyes thou art a star: Long years ago my kinsmen followed
                        thee afar; Through wilds and woods they toiled to seek in thee a home; For
                        thee they fought, and helped to rear thy beauteous dome.
                    True daughter would I be. and honor thee, my State; 1 kneel before thee; thou
                        art good and thou art great; Thy deeds are noble and thy aims are all
                        divine, O Indiana, to my soul thou art a shrine.
                
            
            ST. JOSEPH'S COLLEGE, as a part of its quarter centennial celebration, has issued a
                    neat little pamphlet of sixty-five pages, giving an account of the founding and
                    remarkable growth of the college. Twenty-five years ago the campus of the
                    college was an unattractive swamp; now it is one of the most beautiful campuses
                    in the State, comprising about nine hundred and fifty acres. The pamphlet is
                    illustrated with cuts of the various buildings and portraits of the presidents
                    of the college.
            
               Irish Pioneers in 
                            Kentucky
                        
                is the title of a pamphlet of sixty pages composed of
                    fourteen articles written by Michael J. O'Brien, originally appearing
                    in the Gaelic American of 
                        New York
                    . The whole problem which Mr. O'Brien attacks is one of
                    great difficulty. The Germans, English, Irish and Scotch were so intermingled by
                    the time they reached the Ohio Valley, there was so much
                    mixture by marriage, such a confusion in the changing and misspelling of names,
                    so much carelessness among the pioneers themselves concerning their family
                    history, that nothing short of expert investigation of the official records
                    (which are very scanty) will ever throw much light on the question. There has
                    been a tendency for the Scotch-Irish and Germans to preempt this field, but the
                    fact certainly remains that a large number of the pioneers of the Ohio
                        Valley were Irish. It is possible that they equalled or
                    outnumbered the Scotch or Germans. At any rate, Mr. O'Brien has
                    brought together a large array of evidence to support his contention.
            THE
                    Transactions of the Forty-First Annual Reunion of the 
                            Oregon
                         Pioneer Association for 1913 contains an account of the
                    trip to 
                        Oregon
                     in 1852 by Jane D. Kellogg and her husband. The party started from 
                        Elkhart
                    , Indiana, March 17, 1852, and reached 
                        Portland
                    , October 22, 1852. It is one of the best brief stories of an 
                        Oregon
                     trip that has come to my notice.
            JOSEPH H. NEWBY of 
                  Randolph, Kansas
               , is at work on a genealogy of the Newby Folks.
                    Many of the members of the family live in Indiana. His old home is in 
                        Hamilton county
                    .
            
            
               Reminiscences of Thomas T. Newby is the title of a fifty-page
                    pamphlet recently published by Mr. Newby at 
                        Carthage
                    . The author's father, Henry Newby, came to the
                    neighborhood of 
                        Carthage
                     almost a century ago and his descendants still live there. The Reminiscences are full of pioneer flavor and incident. Such
                    chapters as "Tharp's Barn," "Clearing
                    Land," "Keeping Fire," "Cider
                    Mills," "The Latch String," "Sugar
                    Making," and "The Tanyard" are both valuable as
                    history and interesting as literature. The writer makes no pretense to fine
                    writing but nevertheless draws his pictures with a firm, accurate hand.
            
               A Brief History of 
                            Switzerland County
                        
                is the title of a twenty-page pamphlet prepared by the
                    senior class of 1913 of the 
                        Vevay
                     High school, Miss Julia Leclerq Knox, principal. The frontispiece
                    is a full page portrait of Aunt Julia Detraz (1806-1903), said to be the first
                    white child born in the county. Other illustrations are of the courthouse,
                    school-house, bank, steamer "City of 
                        Louisville
                    ," Eggleston's home, and "Horeshoe
                    Bend," a picturesque place near 
                        Vevay
                    . The pamphlet contains a great deal of information concerning this
                    quaint city and county, one of the most attractive spots in the State.
            
               Pioneer Recollections of Early Indiana is the title of a much
                    too brief pamphlet by James W. Sansbury. "My recollection,"
                    says the writer, "goes back to 1830. I then lived between 
                        Knightstown
                     and 
                        Carthage
                     and used to ride 'Old Jin' to
                    Hill's Mill where 
                        Carthage
                     now is. Mush and milk was the daily and healthy diet. When cooked
                    instead of taking it up in dishes, the mush pot was set out in the middle of the
                    floor and with tin cup and spoons the family gathered around, each one helping
                    himself by dipping his spoon into the pot and taking out his mush and placing it
                    in his cup of milk;" so runs the ten pages of the brief pamphlet.
            THE
                    Minutes of the Eighty-Fifth Annual Session of the Indiana
                        Conference of the Methodist Church for 1916 contains an unusual amount
                    of historical data. Two maps facing each other show the circuits and districts
                    of 1816 and 1916. The circuits and stations have grown from seven to two hundred
                         and ninety-nine during the century.
                    Among the well-known ministers who have died the past year are William M. Zaring
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Dr. J. P. D. John of 
                        Greencastle
                    . The State University Library has been trying for a number of years
                    to secure a set of Conference Minutes but so far has failed.
                    The editor has learned of several sets sold recently as waste paper. The library
                    would very much appreciate any and all material of this character.
            THE SURVEY is in receipt of some valuable
                    historical materials from Mrs. Fannie Knowlton Baker of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Her father, Judge Knowlton, was prominent in Indiana during and
                    after the War and the materials are from his papers and collections.
            THIS MAGAZINE is in receipt of four
                    pamphlets from the librarian of the Henry Henly Public Library of 
                        Carthage
                    . Two of them are school reports, one for 1886, the other for 1906;
                    the third is a souvenir of the Methodist Church containing not only a history of
                    the church but much valuable data on the early history of the city. The fourth,
                    a History of the First Fifty Years of 
                            Carthage
                         and Vicinity, by Mrs. Caroline A Clark, is a twenty-page
                    pamphlet full of the details of the early settlement and progress of the town
                    and neighborhood. It is written in commemoration of the centennial and it is
                    hoped enough were printed to furnish at least each school child of 
                        Carthage
                     with a copy.
            
               The Home and School Visitor is offering a good assortment of
                    Hoosier stories this year. The October number has an article by Prof. F. S.
                    Bogardus on "The Lost Nation"; one on
                    "Indiana" by W. S. Goble; one on "One Hundred Years
                    of Indiana" by George S. Cottman; one on "Maids and Mothers of
                    the Revolution" by Sarah R. Cristy; one on "Johnny
                    Ap-pleseed" by Vida T. Cottman; and one on "Down to 
                        New Orleans
                    " by Logan Esarey.
            THE
                    History Teacher's Magazine for September contains
                    an article by J. W. Oliver of the State Library. It was first read to the
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Association at 
                        Nashville
                    .  Mr. Oliver's
                    subject is "Position of the Historian in Statehood
                    Centennials."
            PERSONS interested in Northwestern History will appreciate the
                    article on Peter de Smet, the famous missionary in the September Records of the American Catholic Historical Society.
            THE
                    Catholic Historical Review for October contains an interesting
                    account of the original owners of the grounds on which the Capital at 
                        Washington
                     is built. The writer, Margaret Brent Downing, calls it the American
                    Capitoline.
            THE
                    American Historical Review for October contains three articles
                    of interest to Indiana readers: "Swiss Emigration to the American
                    Colonies in the Eighteenth Century" by A. B. Faust; "The
                    Influence of Manufactures Upon Political Sentiment in the 
                        United States
                     from 1820 to 1860" by Victor Clark; and "The Cow
                    Country" by Frederic L. Paxton.
            THE
                    Register of the 
                            Kentucky
                         State Historical Society for September, among other
                    interesting articles, concludes the one on the life of Gen. Benjamin Logan and
                    one on the famous Blair family. In the latter article is a history of President
                    Jackson's famous address to 
                        South Carolina
                    .
            THE two important articles in the 
                  
                            Iowa
                         Journal of History and Politics are "The Opening
                    of the Des Moines Valley to Settlement," by Jacob Van der Zee, and the
                    second installment of Ruth Gallaher's "Indian Agents of 
                        Iowa
                    ."
            THE
                    
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review for
                    September has an article on "Verendrye" by Orin G. Libby; one
                    on the "Function of Military History," by A. L. Conger;
                    "The Organization of the British Fur Trade," by 
                        Wayne
                     Stevens; and the annual review of "Historical Activities
                    in 
                        Canada
                    ," by L. J. Burpee.
            IN the 
                  
                            Minnesota
                         History Bulletin for August is an account of the 
                        Michigan
                     exhibit at the Crystal Palace Exhibition, 
                        New York
                    , 1853, written by William G. Le Due.
            
            
               Bulletin Five, 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission, is a tourist's guide to Macinac
                    Island. On a well-made map all the historic spots are located and in the
                    accompanying text described. Most of these places have appropriate markers.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Maryland
                         Historical Magazine for September continues the
                    publication of the "Journal of the Committee of Observation of the
                    Middle District of 
                        Frederick County
                    , 
                        Maryland
                    ." This was an executive committee of the county during the
                    Revolution. It was in close communication with the Continental Congress.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                         Magazine of History for July continues the
                    "Journal of John Sharpe." Under the heading "Letters
                    of More Than Local Interest" are letters to 
                        Wayne
                    , from 
                        Washington
                     to General Hand, from 
                        Washington
                     to Bushrod Washington, some of which are quite valuable.
            THREE articles of general interest in the 1916 Proceedings of the 
                            New Jersey
                         Historical Society are "The Old Barracks at 
                        Princeton
                    ," by E. R. Walker; "Beginnings of the Morris and
                    Essex Railroad," by J. F. Folsom, and "Caspar Steinmetz and
                    His Descendants," by P. H. Hoffman.
            THE October 
                  
                            North Carolina
                         Booklet has, under the heading "Historic
                    Homes," a description of The 
                        Fountain
                    , the home of Col. William Davenport. It was such homes as this that
                    many pioneer Indianians tried to create. The Colonel himself is an ideal of the
                    old-fashioned Hoosier farmer.
            THE
                    William, and Mary College Quarterly for October is taken up
                    largely with genealogical material concerning the Rowland, Tatham, Tanner,
                    Downing, Branch, Armistead, Thornton, Alexander and Randolph families.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Virginia
                         Magazine of History for October continues the publication
                    of the "Minutes of the Council and General Court for
                    1622-1629." These papers are from the Library of Congress. It is also
                    beginning the publication of the letters of William Byrd, a fairly well-known
                    character in early western history.
            
            THE
                    Southwestern Historical Quarterly for October contains
                    "Stockton's Proclamation to the San Diego
                    Insurgents," by Thomas M. Marshall, and an article on "Sam
                    Houston and Williamson Oldham," by E. W. Winkler.
            VOLUME I, No. 2, 
                            Richmond
                         College Historical Papers for 1916 contains accounts of
                    the elections of 1855 and 1860 in 
                        Virginia
                    , the former by Constance Mary Gay, the latter by Margaret Kean
                    Monteiro. "The 
                        Virginia
                     Loyalists, 1775-1783," is the title of an article by John
                    Alonza George.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Historical Magazine for September contains an excellent
                    article by Archibald Henderson on "Richard Henderson: The Authorship of
                    the Cumberland Compact and the Founding of 
                        Nashville
                    ."
            THE most interesting paper for Indiana readers in the October
                    number of The Essex Institute Historical Collections is by
                    Francis B. C. Bradlee on "The Eastern Railroad." This was one
                    of the pioneer railroads of the 
                        United States
                    .
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
