
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 69, Issue 1, pages 299-390. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:69+issue:1+year:1973&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            In "The Silken Arms of the Aristocracy": William Dean Howells' Lecture
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1899
            Robert Rowlette∗
            
            On November 18, 1899, a lecture tour across seven mid-western states took William Dean Howells to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he read his standard lecture, "Novels and Novel Writing," at 
                        Plymouth
                     Church. Next day he wrote his wife: "Well, I had another great and good
                    audience last night—some 1200, of the élite—the
                    tickets being to be had only by invitation. I was caught up into the silken arms of the aristocracy
                    from the moment I arrived … ."1 His lecture was sponsored by
                    the city's five leading literary clubs, members and guests of which alone could attend.
                    Intensely proud of their own literary tradition, these Hoosiers regarded Howells'
                    appearance as the cultural if not the social event of the season. A later writer, likening
                    Howells' sojourn to that of "a visiting potentate," believes that a
                    "presidential candidate today might command no more homage than Howells received in 
                        Indianapolis
                     … ."2
            
            Howells had begun the tour on October 19 at Ypsilanti, 
                        Michigan
                    , and would conclude it on November 27 at 
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               . As the
                    unofficial Dean of American Letters, critic for Harper's magazine, major
                    novelist, and renowned wager of the Realism War, he was a natural attraction. Most of his
                    twenty-five lectures drew large audiences, and press reaction 
                  
                     ∗ Robert Rowlette is a former associate professor of
                            English at 
                                Butler
                             University. He is presently engaged in independent research and writing.
                  
                     1 William Dean Howells to Mrs. William Dean Howells, November 19,
                            1899, Mildred Howells, ed., Life in Letters of William Dean Howells (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928), II, 115.
                  
                     2 James Woodress, Booth Tarkington: Gentleman from
                                Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1955), 14.
               
                     was usually favorable. Indeed, Harrison T. Meserole, in his
                    study of the itinerary and press coverage of the tour, found but "one derogatory
                    account" of a Howells lecture, "that one a very mild reproof" in the
                            
                  Marion, Kansas
               , Record, and he asserts that a "tone of
                    adulation pervaded every account of every lecture reported by the press while the author was on
                    tour." Unaccountably, however, Meserole gives only passing mention to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     lecture.3 This virtual omission is regrettable, for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     press coverage of Howells' visit was unusually extensive and not altogether
                    adulatory. On the contrary, it shows, amid routine homage, the strong hostility of some Hoosiers
                    towards Howells. And the uneasiness was mutual, though that fact was scarcely apparent until after
                    the guest had gone.
            On this tour, Howells was appearing before patrons of lyceum lecturing for only the
                    second—and last—time in his crowded career. Because of an intense aversion to
                    lecturing, he had long resisted the lucrative contracts that repeatedly lured nearly all of his
                    literary contemporaries, including such close friends as Mark Twain and James Whitcomb Riley, to the
                    lecture trails for series of enervating one night stands. Then, in the spring of 1897, he yielded to
                    Major James Burton Pond, manager of 
                        Boston
                    's leading lecture bureau, and read a lecture "eight or ten
                    times" to select audiences in 
                  New York,
                            Massachusetts
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . "But," he complained to Samuel Clemens, "it was ghastly
                    work; and though Pond, when he had once tasted my blood, wanted to suck me dry, he could not offer
                    me enough for his supper. I found that I could get more out of writing than talking, and so that
                    ends it."4
            
            
               
                  3 Harrison T. Meserole, "The Dean in Person: Howells'
                        Lecture Tour," Western Humanities Review, X (Autumn, 1956),
                        337–47. The quoted words are on pages 339 and 347. Meserole omits much in addition to
                        the 
                            Indianapolis
                         lecture. In an essay represented as comprehensive the conclusions consistently
                        outstrip the evidence. Of Howells' twenty-five lectures, Meserole specifically mentions
                        only sixteen and actually treats only about half of those, some in a line or two, most quite
                        cursorily. Of the "more than thirty newspapers" (p. 341) which reported the
                        lecture, he mentions nine. Those in 
                            Topeka
                         and 
                            Chicago
                        , he states, supplied the "most extensive newspaper coverage" (p.
                        343), but he fails to consider the papers in 
                     Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                  , and 
                            Columbus
                        , for example. A full and reliable record of the tour, a little known sidestep in
                        Howells' career, remains to be written.
               
                  4 Howells to Samuel Clemens, January 9, 1898, Mildred Howells, ed., Life in Letters of William Dean Howells, II, 85.
            
            
            
               Reproduced from 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, November 18, 1899; Courtesy Archives Division, Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
            
            And that did end it, for a time, but in the spring of 1899 Howells yielded again to Pond and
                    contracted for the extensive tour that fall. Almost at once he regretted it. That summer at his
                    retreat in Kittery, 
                        Maine
                    , his spirits were overcast by "the blight of lecturing," as he wrote
                    Clemens ten days before the tour began. "I am sick of it already," he said.
                    "Perhaps I shall write you of my luck; but I can't talk of it now."5 Nor could he talk of it during the tour, but six weeks after it was over he
                    recounted, with shudders still evident behind the words, how much "misery" and
                    "suffering" the experience had caused him. Each night he was unnerved before
                    mounting the platform, embarrassed by his introducer's praises, abased by the need to
                    interest and amuse his audience, and depleted by the lecture and the reception afterwards. Then
                    nervous strain prevented sleep, so he wrote, "till I got up and drugged myself with
                    trional, or soaked myself with whiskey. After that came a few hours of blessed stupor."
                    Irregular travel schedules also drained him, as did the social demands. "I had to be
                    lunched and recepted and dined and supped," he told Clemens. "The worst of it was
                    that I was meeting nice, kind, intelligent people all the time, whom I liked and respected, and who
                    wished to be good to me; but it was killing me, and I was a wretched ghost before them."
                    Although his wretchedness was never allowed to show, it was particularly acute when he reached 
                        Indianapolis
                    , since by then he had not had "one night's natural sleep"
                    for an entire month.6
            
            There was another, more cogent, reason for disquiet when he came to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . That city was eminent for the extraordinary number of published authors within or just
                    beyond its bounds, and the literary taste of those authors, like that of their readers, ran
                    overwhelmingly to the historical romance. As everyone knew, Howells relentlessly condemned such
                    "romanticistic" fiction on the grounds that it purveyed a false, impossibly
                    idealized view of life. Quite as relentlessly he championed a "realistic," more
                    true to life fiction. His critical dictums had made him the focus of the vituperative Realism War,
                    which he had waged from the "Editor's Study" of Harper's Monthly from 1886 to 1892 and intermittently 
                  
                     5 Howells to Clemens, October 9, 1899, ibid., II,
                            109, 108.
                  
                     6 Howells to Clemens, January 14, 1900, ibid., II,
                            119, 120.
               
                     thereafter in Harper's Weekly and
                    which other writers of both factions had waged—and were waging still—in nearly
                    every important magazine and newspaper in the land. This fight for American public taste had not
                    gone well for Howells and his disciples. Praising Emile Zola and Leo Tolstoy for their superior
                    artistry and insights had only gained Howells a reputation as a lover of filth. The work of such
                    promising young realists as Stephen Crane and Hamlin Garland, which he supported, was ignored, while
                    George Du Maurier's Trilby and Anthony Hope's The
                        Prisoner of Zenda, both published in 1894, literally set loose "a flood of favor
                    for the neoromantics at their shoddiest and most sensational." The flood crested just
                    before and after the turn of the century when "the schools of irresponsible, neoromantic
                    best-sellerdom came truly into their own to rule American popular taste … ."7
            
            Such was the stormy literary climate, then, when Howells arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a formidable stronghold of the enemy faction, to assail in his lecture a type of
                    writing that many Hoosiers cherished. He knew only too well that Indiana authors "dominated
                    America's popular literature," as a recent writer has said, and that "
                        Indianapolis
                     shared honors only with 
                        New York
                     as an important literary capital … ."8 Foremost
                    among the local best selling novelists was Lew Wallace of nearby 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . Wallace's Ben Hur (1880) would sell a phenomenal 1,200,000
                    copies by 1900, and, while Howells was in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Wallace was preparing to go to 
                        New York
                     to await the opening of the six act dramatic version of his book at the 
                        Broadway
                     Theater.9 The play opened on November 29—the same day,
                    coincidentally, that Howells 
                  
                     7 Edwin H. Cady, The Realist at War: The Mature Years
                                1885–1920 of William Dean Howells ([
                                Syracuse
                            ], 1958), 53. A full and careful account of the literary war is on pages
                            10–55 of this volume. See also Edwin H. Cady and David L. Frazier, eds., The War of the Critics over William Dean Howells (
                                Evanston
                            , 1962). Helpful also is Kenneth S. Lynn, William Dean Howells: An
                                American Life (
                                New York
                            , 1971), 311–17.
                  
                            
                        8 Edward A. Leary, 
                           
                                        Indianapolis
                                    : The Story of a City (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1971), 157. Not everyone in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 at the time of Howells' visit took an overly serious view of the
                                city's literary position, however. In the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Journal of November 19, 1899, under the heading "Bubbles in
                                the Air," there appeared the following bit of banter:
                            "Aunt Sacharrisa, is a literary center a town where people read books, or where
                                they write books?"
                            "Neither, Florinda; a literary center is a town where people buy
                                books."
                            Citations to all of the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 newspapers are to their daily editions.
                        
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 19, 1899.
               
                     arrived at his 
                        New York
                     home from his completed tour. Just behind Wallace in the popularity of his output was
                    Charles Major, whose When Knighthood Was in Flower was the sensation of 1898; it
                    would sell over 1,000,000 copies, be successfully dramatized (with an 
                        Indianapolis
                     opening at the English Theater on December 17, 1900), and be made into a movie starring
                    Marion Davies. Mary Hartwell Catherwood, an apostate from the realists' cause, drew
                    improved returns from the historical romance with Spanish Peggy (1899). In
                    succeeding years another apostate, Maurice Thompson, with Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                (1900), as well as George 
                        Barr
                     McCutcheon with Graustark (1901), Gene Stratton Porter with Freckles (1904), and Meredith Nicholson with The House of a Thousand
                        Candles (1905) were all to score huge successes, making it painfully clear that sentiment
                    and romance were far more marketable than reality.10
            
            With literary fantasy so securely dominant, Hoosier readers could afford to indulge a strain of alien
                    realism, if it did not go too far. They were proud of pioneer realist Edward Eggleston, the
                    state's first author to win national and even international prominence, but they were not
                    entirely pleased with the continuing popular and growing critical following of his The
                        Hoosier Schoolmaster (1871). Eggleston's 
                  
                            
                        10 Mary Hartwell Catherwood and Maurice Thompson wrote for years
                                under the banner of the realists, with moderate success. Howells had thought them
                                promising. As editor of the Atlantic until 1881, he had printed some
                                of their work and encouraged them in reviews. Later, both Hoosiers not only went with
                                the tide of romance but attacked the creed of realism with vehemence. Thompson was
                                especially virulent. Stung, perhaps, by his large indebtedness to Howells, which
                                included Howells' having helped to find a publisher for two of
                                Thompson's books and having found a job for Thompson on The
                                    Independent magazine, Thompson, in a magazine article ostensibly written to
                                analyze his former mentor's critical theories, "maliciously if
                                ignorantly slandered" Howells and "ripped viciously at everything the
                                realist stood for." See Cady, Realist at War,
                                32–34.
                            The fullest account of writing in Indiana is Arthur W. Shumaker, A History
                                    of Indiana Literature: With Emphasis on the Authors of Imaginative Works Who
                                    Commenced Writing Prior to World War II (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol.
                                XLII; [
                                    Indianapolis
                                ], 1962). Only some of the best known contributors to Indiana's
                                Golden Age of Literature, 1871–1921, are mentioned in the present essay.
                                Shumaker estimates that altogether more than 1,500 Indiana authors have written at least
                                one book, though only a very few were of lasting significance (pp. 19–21). A
                                very useful book is Meredith Nicholson, The Hoosiers (
                                    New York
                                , 1900). See also R. E. Banta, Indiana Authors and their Books,
                                    1816–1916 (
                                    Crawfordsville
                                , 1949); John H. Moriarty, "Hoosiers Sell Best," Indiana Quarterly for Bookmen, III (January, 1947), 7–14;
                                and Howard H. Peckham, "What made Hoosiers Write," American Heritage, II (Autumn, 1950), 24–27, 59–60.
                        
               
                     use of dialect conveyed the damaging impression, they feared,
                    that all Hoosiers were like his illiterate characters of southern Indiana. They themselves were
                    unwilling to believe, as Meredith Nicholson wrote in 1900, that "Eggleston's
                    Hoosiers ever lived … ."11 Something of the same problem
                    attached to James Whitcomb Riley, portrayer in dialectal poetry of the unsophisticated Indiana
                    country and village folk. Though Riley refused to have his homely farmers speak like elegant
                    pastoral nymphs, he shrewdly alternated poems of pure sentiment with the coarser stuff, so that his
                    devoted audience was not only national and international but local.12 Booth
                    Tarkington's first novel, The Gentleman from Indiana, published in
                    October, 1899, was Howellsian in social realism but still urbane enough for his fellow
                    Hoosiers' approval. But possibly the state's greatest author, the maverick
                    Theodore Dreiser, offended so deeply with his realistic treatment of social problems and sex in Sister Carrie (1900) that he has never yet been entirely forgiven.13 Had Sister Carrie been published a year earlier, Howells'
                    safest common ground with his 
                        Indianapolis
                     audience might have been the fact that he, too, disliked Dreiser, doubtless because of
                    Dreiser's sexual candor.14
            
            Under these circumstances Howells might understandably have felt more trepidation than usual when he
                    arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 
                  Bloomington, Illinois
               , at 2:30 p.m. on the day of his lecture. He was met
                    at Union Station with great éclat by a contingent of local literati, including his guide
                        
                  
                     11 Nicholson, Hoosiers, 221.
                  
                     12 Hoosier readers generally preferred such undialectal and
                            sentimental poems as "An Old Sweetheart of Mine" while they often
                            criticized such poems as "Doc Sifers" and "The Raggedy
                            Man" for imputing to their characters "a dialect that is fuller than the
                            usual rural speech … ." As in the case of Eggleston, they did not wish
                            outsiders to suppose that Riley's characters spoke with an authentic Hoosier voice.
                            Nicholson, Hoosiers, 156–76. The quoted words appear on page
                            163.
                  
                     13 Although Dreiser's position among major American writers
                            of the twentieth century has long been secure, he was, as James Woodress says, "for
                            many years a novelist without honor in his home state." Arthur W. Shumaker, in A History of Indiana Literature, pointedly omits discussion of Dreiser on
                            the perhaps questionable grounds of "insufficient residence" in Indiana
                            and of too little "Indiana influence" in his works. And Ross F. Lockridge
                            recommends a single Dreiser volume, A Hoosier Holiday (1916), though it
                            must be said that Lockridge directed himself to a youthful audience. See Woodress, Booth Tarkington, 16n; Shumaker, History of Indiana
                                Literature, 18; Ross F. Lockridge, The Story of Indiana (
                                Oklahoma City
                            , 1958), 396.
                  
                     14 Lynn, William Dean Howells, 317.
               
                     during his stay, the young Booth Tarkington. Tarkington
                    escorted Howells to a suite at the fashionable Bates House, where the visitor was greeted by still
                    other representatives of the literary societies and was interviewed by reporters from three city
                    papers, the Journal, Sentinel, and News. The Journal's interview was the least perfunctory, and also the most personal.
                    Readers learned, if they did not already know, that the sixty-two year old Howells was short and
                    rotund, gray of hair and mustache, kindly of face, courtly in manner; that he lived with his wife
                    and daughter on West Fifty-ninth Street in 
                        New York
                    ; and that his latest novel, Their Silver Wedding Journey, then
                    appearing serially in Harper's Monthly, would end in another installment
                    or two. He was quoted as saying he enjoyed writing The Story of a Play (1898) more
                    than any other novel because he knew he "was `getting at it.'" Pecked out
                    on a typewriter, that book related the domestic affairs of a young woman whom he termed, the
                    reporter noted, "a 
                        Boston
                     swell." Howells would not detail his future literary plans but spoke of his
                    lecture tour "with all the enthusiasm of an enterprising actor telling of the
                    `business' he had played to in various places." Despite some unspecified
                    "frosts" the tour had been, he said, "successful beyond my
                        expectations."15
            
            To this report the Sentinel added that the author distinguished carefully between
                    writers of the East and West, saying the former were specializing in short stories and the latter in
                    the longer, more demanding genre. Both groups were American, however, and, as he stated in his
                    lecture that evening, had a better sense of form than European writers. He was said to consider
                    Indiana authors to be among the most promising in the country, and he had high praise for
                    Tarkington's first effort.16 Indeed, Howells' estimate of
                    Hoosier writers was the chief concern of the Sentinel and the sole concern of the
                        News. The News reported, the more fully, that the author
                    valued highly the work of Lew Wallace, at whose house in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     "he had made delightful calls," and of Maurice Thompson, whom he had
                    consulted about legal points for A Modern Instance (1882); that he had real Lucy
                    Furman's A Sanctified Town "with great delight" and
                    some 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 19, 1899.
                  
                     16
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, November 19, 1899.
               
                     of Anna Nicholas' work (probably An Idyl
                        of the 
                            Wabash
                        
               ) "with much interest"; that he thought Eggleston's
                        The Hoosier Schoolmaster "deserved one of the front places in
                    American realism"; and that he appraised Riley as "not only the greatest American
                    poet … but one of the greatest that ever lived."17
                    Howells' experience with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     interviewers was no happier than similar experiences elsewhere. Earlier in the tour he
                    had complained to his wife about "grotesque" reports, and now from 
                        Indianapolis
                     he wrote: "The interviews are wildly wrong; almost word for word what I did
                        not say."18
            
            Following the reception and interviews, Howells was escorted by Tarkington, whom he had met four
                    years earlier and who paid him the deference of a disciple, to a dinner at the home of
                    Tarkington's socially prominent sister, Hauté, and her husband, Ovid 
                        Butler
                     Jameson.19 The Jamesons' home at 1035 North Pennsylvania
                    Street—named Barley Bright II by family friend James Whitcomb Riley—was well
                    known as a center of culture and entertainment. A stately mansion of colonial architecture, its
                    furnishings included tastefully chosen art treasures from around the globe and its library the
                    autographed books of many famous authors. Especially after her husband's death in 1915,
                    Mrs. Jameson made it a "virtual salon for prominent figures of the literary, theatrical and
                    civic culture world." Among many others she entertained were Woodrow Wilson, British
                    novelist Arnold Bennett, and American novelist Henry James.20 The dinner for
                    Howells 
                  
                     17
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 18, 1899. The News misprinted the names
                            of both Lucy Furman and Anna Nicholas, identifying the former as Lucy Foreman and the latter
                            as Anna Nicholson.
                  
                     18 Howells to Mrs. Howells, October 24, 1899, Mildred Howells, ed.,
                                Life in Letters of William Dean Howells, II, 110; Howells to Mrs.
                            Howells, November 19, 1899, ibid., II, 116.
                  
                     19 Ovid 
                                Butler
                             Jameson was a prominent lawyer and the grandson of Ovid 
                                Butler
                            , founder of the Northwest Christian University, now 
                                Butler
                             University. See 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 15, 1915. Mrs. Jameson had been given the name
                            Hauté "because her mother, who moved to 
                                Indianapolis
                             from 
                                Terre Haute
                            , talked so much of her fondness for her former home." 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 18, 1937.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 18, 19, 1937; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 18, 19, 1937. The quotation was taken from a story on page five,
                            column three of the unmarked "final" edition of the Star, May 19, 1937. The story does not appear in the "state"
                            edition. The News of May 18 erroneously placed the address of the home at
                            1015 North 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . James Whitcomb Riley, who had paid casual court to young Hauté
                            Tarkington before her marriage to Jameson, had originally invented the name Barley Bright
                            for her parents' home. Richard Crowder, Those Innocent Years: The
                                Legacy
                  
               
                     was described in the society sections of the Journal and Sentinel with the customary emphasis on elegance of
                    décor. The dining room was done in yellow. The guests saw a table covered with yellow
                    satin and a Duchess lace scarf, a center piece of pyramided yellow chrysanthemums, chrystal
                    candelabra with yellow shades and candles, and doilies over yellow satin. Grecian dinner cards
                    marked the guests' places; the courses were served on yellow and white china, the final
                    course being yellow ices in the form of chrysanthemums.21
            
            A small, select group gathered at the Jameson home. Besides Howells and her brother, Mrs. Jameson
                    invited her parents, Judge and Mrs. John S. Tarkington, the Reverend and Mrs. Joseph A. Milburn, Mr.
                    and Mrs. John H. Holliday, May Wright Sewall, and Howells' secretary and traveling
                    companion for the tour, Mr. Maurice Chizzola, whom both the Journal and the Sentinel listed as "Mr. Gonzales." The highest social tone was
                    assured by the presence of General and Mrs. Benjamin Harrison.22 The former
                    President in particular impressed Howells, who described him in a letter to Mrs. Howells as
                    "very, very interesting." During the evening Harrison talked
                    "humanely about war, and wisely about 
                        England
                    ."23 The Boer War, then the principal foreign topic in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers, was of great interest to informed Americans, most of whom, like Howells,
                    strongly objected to 
                        England
                    's role in it. Harrison's opinions were especially informed, since he
                    had arrived back in town just four days before after having spent five months in Europe 
                  
                     and Inheritance of a Hero of the Victorian Era, James Whitcomb Riley (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1957), 114.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, November 19, 1899; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 19, 1899.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid. The Journal did manage to get Maurice
                            Chizzola's name right in the story of Howells' arrival in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , which appeared in the same issue. Joseph Anthony Milburn had come to 
                                Indianapolis
                             in June, 1890, in the third year of his ministry to become pastor of the Second
                            Presbyterian Church. In January, 1901, he became pastor of the 
                                Plymouth
                             Congregational Church in 
                                Chicago
                            . See 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Press, January 24, 1901. John Hampden Holliday was the founder of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, founder and board chairman of the Union Trust Company, and a
                            director of the Indiana National Bank. See 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 22, 1921. May Wright Sewall was well known as an educator
                            and internationally known as a leader in women's movements. She was instrumental in
                            founding the International Council of Women, and, shortly before her death in 1920, she
                            published a book on the subject of spiritual phenomena, Neither Dead Nor
                                Sleeping. See 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 23, 1920; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 24, 1920.
                  
                     23 Howells to Mrs. Howells, November 19, 1899, Mildred Howells, ed.,
                                Life in Letters of William Dean Howells, II, 115.
               
                    
                    
                  HAUTÉ TARKINGTON JAMESON
                  
               
                    
                  BOOTH TARKINGTON
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     acting as counsel to 
                        Venezuela
                     in the 
                        Venezuela
                    -British Guiana boundary dispute.24 In Howells' next letter
                    to his wife he amplified his previous remark about Harrison's talk: "What Harrison
                    said of G. Britain was that she generally bettered the lot of the people she conquered, but he doubted her right to do it. Said he had seen a farm all run down in a
                    man's hands, but he did not think a thrifty neighbor had the right to take it, and do
                    better for the shiftless owner than he could himself."25
            
            After dinner, while Tarkington accompanied Howells "in a slow little cab" to 
                        Plymouth
                     Church for the lecture, the two had time for leisurely talk, and the younger writer
                    recalled for the elder their first meeting, on Thanksgiving Day, 1895. Not long out of 
                        Princeton
                    , where he had had some reputation as a glee club singer, Tarkington had gone to 
                        New York
                     to write, with no immediate success. At a dinner at the Lantern Club, attended also by
                    Howells, he was horrified at being asked to sing a solo without accompaniment before "this
                    illustrious auditor." Stricken with hero worship, he could better find a quavering voice to
                    sing than words to decline, so had struggled through "at a pitch Nature had never planned
                    for him." If Howells remembered the embarrassed soloist's
                    "unintentional" sounds, he graciously chose to say he did not. In any case
                    Tarkington felt better for having explained.26
            
            Well before the lecture began at eight o'clock, the auditorium and galleries of the church
                    were packed, said the Journal, with an "audience that combined the
                    culture and 
                  
                     24 After leaving the White House, Benjamin Harrison had resumed the
                            practice of law in 
                                Indianapolis
                             and had gone abroad as a private citizen. An account of his involvement with
                            the 
                                Venezuela
                            -British Guiana boundary dispute is in Harry J. Sievers, Benjamin
                                Harrison, Hoosier President: The White House and After (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 264–74. The Sentinel thought
                            Harrison's sojourn abroad was in many respects "as memorable as the famous
                            trip of Gen. Grant in foreign countries following the expiration of his incumbency of the
                            presidency." 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, November 15, 1899. The Journal, quoting from
                            the 
                                Baltimore
                            
                            Herald, noted the acclaim Harrison had received from foreign countries:
                            "The President of 
                                France
                             extended to him especial honors, as did the King of 
                                Belgium
                            , Queen of Holland and Emperor of 
                                Germany
                            . The Kaiser was particularly attentive to our former President, and the 
                                London
                             Board of Trade gave a dinner to him." 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 10, 1899. See also 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 14, 1899.
                  
                     25 Howells to Mrs. Howells, November 19, 1899 (second letter), Mildred
                            Howells, ed., Life in Letters of William Dean Howells, II, 116.
                  
                     26 Booth Tarkington, "Introduction," in William Dean
                            Howells, The Rise of Silas Lapham (Riverside Lecture Series;
                            
                                Boston
                            , 1937), xiii-xiv.
               
                     fashion and wealth of 
                        Indianapolis
                     … ." Formal dress was the rule, with the women's bright
                    and silken gowns far outnumbering the men's black coats. Miss Katherine Merrill, president
                    of the Contemporary Club, was to introduce the lecturer, but she deferred to the Reverend G. A.
                    Carstensen, who made a graceful gesture of welcome: "Whether we be idealists or realists,
                    we are all agreed that the ideal delight has its realization in seeing and hearing William Dean
                        Howells."27 Of the speaker's appearance and manner the Sentinel said: 
                        Mr. Howells is a gentleman of most pleasing personality. In manner he is quiet and refined,
                            giving the impression of great reserve force. His hair and mustache are quite white and he
                            is of medium hight [sic]. He reads in an easy conversational tone, heard
                            in all parts of the auditorium. In fact, his enunciation is remarkable for its clear-cut
                            distinctness. He paid little attention to the audience save when he made one of his happy
                            and peculiarly witty remarks, some joke on himself as author, then he looked up with a quiet
                            twinkle in his eye and evidently enjoyed the laughs that come from his hearers.28
                  
                    
            
            As for the content of the lecture, the earnest newspaper reports show that Howells presented
                    essentially the staple and familiar items of his critical doctrine, holding for the novel as the
                    great intellectual and moral force of the time, realistic fiction over the romance, flesh and blood
                    characters over romantic types, the ordinary over the extraordinary, and, for their truthfulness in
                    art, such realistic writers as Daniel Defoe, Jane Austen, George Eliot, Henry James, Zola, and
                    Tolstoy over Sir Walter Scott, Charles Dickens, and William Makepeace Thackeray. "I take as
                    my choice," he said, "the real novel … as being the highest type of
                    fiction. If I could, I would have novels subjected to the principles that govern an honest man. It
                    is easier to fib than to tell the truth about life." Interspersed throughout the lecture
                    were 
                  
                     27
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, November 19, 1899. Quotes are from 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 19, 1899. Besides the Contemporary Club, the other
                            sponsors of the lecture were the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Literary, Century, Fortnightly, and 
                                Indianapolis
                             Women's clubs. Among those who attended, according to the Sentinel, were Indiana historian Jacob Piatt Dunn and 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News general manager Hilton U. Brown. 
                                Plymouth
                             (Congregational) Church, during the last three decades of the nineteenth
                            century and especially during the pastorate of Oscar C. McCulloch, 1877–1891, was
                            one of the religious, charitable, and cultural centers of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . See Genevieve C. Weeks, "Oscar C. McCulloch Transforms 
                                Plymouth
                             Church, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , into an `Institutional' Church," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, LXIV (June, 1968), 87–108.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, November 19, 1899.
               
                     comments about his own reading habits (he read to study the
                    methods of others), his modest success (he had never succeeded, he said, "quite to my
                    satisfaction"), and his not knowing precisely what made a novel pleasing. He aimed gentle
                    jibes at his audience—for thinking they were thinking when they read
                    novels—and at himself (and them)—for supposing, as a callow youth, that the
                    lover in fiction "must save his sweetheart from something violent … ."
                    His remarks seemed to go well enough before an audience partial to the romance. The Journal's reporter, noting that some women were said to dislike Howells for his
                    fictional treatment of "the feminine character," declared that "if there
                    is an 
                        Indianapolis
                     club woman who bears the charming novelist a grudge and was present last night she did
                    not indicate it by refusing to smile at his satirical comments."29
            
            Always after a lecture, Howells later told Clemens, "I waited and shook hands with such as
                    cared to speak with me, and then I went to my hotel and to bed." And always before,
                    throughout his month on the road, he had lain miserably awake until he had drugged or drunk himself
                    into a fitful sleep.30 This time the pattern of sleeplessness was broken. The
                    morning after the 
                        Indianapolis
                     lecture he exclaimed in a letter to his wife: "I got nine
                    hours sleep last night! Without trional!! Hot scotch and exhausted nature did it!"31 Besides writing letters that Sunday morning he read his mail (there was a
                    letter from Clemens) and perused reports of his interview and lecture and then went, inquiring
                    directions along the way, for a hurried visit with his old friend on Lockerbie Street, James
                    Whitcomb Riley, who had been too ill to attend the Jamesons' dinner or the lecture.
                    "We had a sweet hour together," Howells wrote. "He spoke of the long
                    attack on me [referring to the literary war], and how I had `kept kind' through it all;
                    kindness is the best thing in the world, he said."32 At noon Howells
                    entrained for 
                        Detroit
                    , where he lectured the following night, November 20.33
            
            
               
                  29
                        Ibid.; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, November 20, 1899. Quotations are from 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, November 19, 1899.
               
                  30 Howells to Samuel Clemens, January 14, 1900, Mildred Howells, ed., Life in Letters of William Dean Howells, II, 119.
               
                  31 Howells to Mrs. Howells, November 19, 1899, ibid.,
                        II, 115.
               
                  32 Howells to Mrs. Howells, November 19, 1899 (second letter), ibid., II, 116.
               
                  33 See Meserole, "Dean in Person," 345.
            
            
            "If Howells read the newspaper reports of his visit," says Tarkington's
                    biographer, James Woodress, "… he found that his arrival left some disquieting
                        eddies."34 The eddies had rippled over an open letter to the
                    lecturer in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sun on the evening of November 18. The letter warned irreverently that the
                    "`set' has you in tow … and proposes to anchor you to a dais or
                    something of that sort, while they do the lionizing act. We wish you good luck, extend our most
                    cordial sympathy, [and] hope you'll forgive the sweet buds who tell you how profoundly
                    delighted they were in reading your `Pilgrim's Progress' and `Robinson
                    Crusoe' … ."35 The eddies rippled more forcefully
                    after his departure. On November 20 two further reports on the lecture appeared in the News and Journal. Neither would likely have pleased the lecturer.
            The News, with no Sunday edition, reported tardily and sonorously on Monday that
                    the lecture had produced "the best collective showing that 
                        Indianapolis
                     has ever made of its cultured people." It commended the audience for being
                    "lovers of good literature … who not only read the best that is in newspapers
                    and periodicals … but also in `hard-backed books'" and noted that
                    members of the sponsoring societies were "congratulating themselves on the success that
                    attended this exhibit of a living literary lion." Some of the reactions to the lion were
                    presented as an overheard conversation of four of the literati after the lecture: 
                        "The essay to which we have just listened," said one of the talkers,
                            "recalls a discriminating remark of Artemus Ward concerning hash. `I like
                            hash,' said Artemus, `because when one eats hash he knows what he is
                            eating.'"
                        "I never read but one of Mr. Howells' novels," said a learned
                            judge, "and I have forgotten what it was about."
                        "I have done better than that," said another talker, "for I have
                            never read any of them."
                     The fourth speaker, likening Howells' lecture to his novels, faulted it for having
                    "arrangement, but no plot" and for "lacking in red corpuscles."
                    For organization and style he preferred Riley's lecture on the peanut. He admonished
                    Howells for admiring Zola, Tolstoy, and Ivan Turgenev, 
                  
                     34 Woodress, Booth Tarkington, 14.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sun, November 18, 1899, quoted in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 19, 1899.
               
                     "whose books are really very naughty"; and he
                    concluded with a little lecture of his own: "He talks about truth, saying that truth should
                    be the basic principle in a novel. But after all, a robust, well-rounded fiction is likely to
                    outlive many litters of aimless, colorless novels that are built on maundering commonplaces. I shall
                    stop at the fish market on my way home, and get a mackerel. I want something of a definite flavor to
                    succeed Mr. Howells's essay."36
            
            The Journal made a large concession but also found dissent. Howells, the reporter
                    confided, "was talked about pretty generally in 
                        Indianapolis
                     yesterday. While the greater part of the audience … liked him, there were
                    some who did not, and if the ears of the gifted writer did not burn yesterday it was not the fault
                    of some who criticized him." Faultless in this respect was a "well-known"
                    but anonymous clubwoman who implicated others as careless of Howells' ears as herself. From
                    "a bright young man" she had heard "a very clever thing," which
                    was that Howells' lecture had inspired him to read the newspapers. Why was this, she had
                    asked, and he had replied: "Well, … didn't Howells say that the only
                    true novel is the one that pictures life just as it is? It seems to me that the newspaper does this
                    most excellently in reporting the things that go on about us. If we are to accept the Howells theory
                    what is the use of spending money for novels? Why not confine ourselves to the newspaper?"
            From another clubwoman the same lady had heard a "fearfully slangy" but
                    "remarkably apt" response, which was that the lecture was
                    "tommy-rot"; the narrator herself eschewed this indelicate term but did think it
                    "most expressive at times." From her husband, who did "not like Howells
                    and declined to go out and hear him," she had received the advice, given "with a
                    sneer," that in her own writing she should "do the very opposite" of what
                    Howells had advocated. From yet another clubwoman, however, the lady had heard disconcerting praise
                    of the lecture, from which she concluded soberly that "people look at things in peculiar
                    ways." As for herself, she had her own opinions: 
                        "Howells … gives us a little society chit-chat, but he does not introduce
                            us always to the best class of people. I never yet met one of Howells's women that
                            was worth cultivating. I don't like them. Once 
                        
                           36
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, November 20, 1899.
                     
                             I was in 
                                Boston
                             and was introduced to a newspaper man, who was an acquaintance of Howells. I
                            said to this man that the women Howells wrote about were not worth knowing. He replied that
                            Howells did not know any other kind of women."
                        "But this was before he got into society," the clubwoman hastened to
                                add.37
                  
                     "Everyone seemed to have read Howells' fiction," says Woodress,
                    and "… his opinions dismayed only a tiny minority of his admirers at 
                        Plymouth
                     Church."38 There seems some room for doubt.
            Besides the reports of the interview, dinner, and lecture, Howells' visit evoked four
                    editorials—one in the Journal and three in the News—two of which were decidedly not adulatory. The first, in the literary column
                    of the News of November 18, noted with approval "that the fad for
                    listening to lectures from foreign literary notables" was passing and hailed
                    Howells' appearance as a sign "that that gold mine, the American lecture field, is
                    to be left … to literary men of the soil."39 Howells could
                    have read this, and also another, a friendly item in the Journal of November 19.
                    With sympathetic insight the Journal's editorialist wondered (rightly)
                    whether the author found lecturing a strain and supposed that he was eager to return to his
                    accustomed writing. In effect an apologist for Howells, obviously well and pleasurably read in him,
                    the newspaperman acknowledged that the author's books were not "popular"
                    but insisted they should be, for they "could only be written by a great artist and a man
                    who understands the people of whom he writes." He answered one standard
                    argument—that Howells' books were void of "excitement" and
                    "tragic events"—with another—that Howells'
                    commonplace events made "his pages like transcripts of experience we have all known
                    … ." He concluded with a prophecy: "In days to come these minute
                    studies of character will … stand as pictures of nineteenth century life more accurate
                    than any others which have been produced."40
            
            
               
                  37
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, November 20, 1899.
               
                  38 Woodress, Booth Tarkington, 15–16.
                        Woodress may have been partly persuaded to his view by this comment in the Journal: "The audience was distinctly a Howells gathering, and was certainly an
                        appreciative one… . It was evident from the applause the lecturer received that there
                        were few people in the audience who had not at some time discovered and admired some of
                        Howells's characteristics." 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, November 19, 1899.
               
                  39
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, November 18, 1899.
               
                  40
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, November 19, 1899.
            
            
            It was probably well for Howells that he left 
                        Indianapolis
                     on this gratifying note. Next day, November 20, in addition to the two graceless
                    reports on his lecture, there appeared in the News an adverse editorial pointedly
                    disagreeing with "Mr. Howells and his worshipers." The question, as a
                    non-worshiper saw it, concerned the nature of "truth," and the facts were that a
                    story need not "be absolutely and literally true in all points to what Mr. Howells calls
                    life" and that, indeed, it was "not a question of truth at all, but of the
                    presentation of truth." Howells' apparent judgment that Dickens and Thackeray were
                    less truthful than Austen and George Eliot was as "unwarranted" as "the
                    assumption that the men who do not follow the Howells method care less for truth than he does
                    … ." Still, the nonworshiper thought, the world "is not easily
                    fooled" by "what is false," and it "has not been fooled in this
                        case."41
            
            The last editorial—though not the last word—followed in the News on November 25. Probably the same writer, still unfooled, advised his readers that
                    Howells "would do well to cultivate that catholicity of temper which he talks of in his
                    critical writing." What a "moralist" should do "is to make truth
                    as lovely and attractive as possible"; and the "professional realist"
                    need not exhibit "his own limitations" by standing up "before an
                    intelligent audience of Americans" and telling them "that such barbarians as
                    Tolstoy are more `truthful' than Thackeray, Dickens, Scott, and [Charles] Reade
                    … ." The trouble was that Howells seemed "to identify truth with
                    ugliness, if not with positive filth," and attempted "to read romance out of life,
                    and to reduce the great art" of writing "to the level of a mere trade that can be
                    followed by any man with a decent literary style … ."42
            
            These editorials brought forth a countering letter to the News on November 28.
                    Fixed in purpose but resigned in air, its author lamented the revival of the "endless
                    controversy as to the merits of romance and realism" occasioned by Howells' visit.
                    Howells' critics who asserted "that a novel should lift its readers out of the
                    commonplace" missed his point that the commonplace itself had "the charm and
                    interest of life as most of us live it." Howells was "a man of broad 
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 20, 1899.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., November 25, 1899.
               
                     and delicate sympathies" who delighted "in
                    the ordinary life of the average people" and whose works not only appealed to the
                    reader's "pleasure of recognition" but had "the dignity of life
                    and as life … [were] worthy of respectful study." Any sort of truth was
                    "much more worthy of study than any one's idea of what truth ought to
                    be." Of course, even an ardent partisan of Howells had to acknowledge that Howells might
                    omit "some truth that all of us feel," that realism was "not all of
                    art," and that Howells did not represent all of realism. The correspondent pleaded for
                    moderation: "If the partisans and the opponents of authors could only refrain from
                    overstating their values or demerits—but who can hope for change in this?" The
                    letter was signed only, and perhaps misleadingly, "S." It may well have been
                    written by Booth Tarkington.43
            
            Tarkington probably had at least the occasion for this letter in mind years later when he recalled
                    Howells' admonition to him "about the pompous sort of critics" while they
                    drove to 
                        Plymouth
                     Church: 
                        What he said was not to be forgotten; nor was his kind, sad voice, a little pityingly amused,
                            as he talked. "Ah, you'll find they can still hurt you long after their
                            power to please you is gone!" And he went on to sketch Tennyson's picture
                            of a critic—a tiny, almost imperceptible figure in the remotest distance, no more
                            than a dot on the horizon. "But this little, little figure, so far from you, shoots
                            an arrow; and the arrow comes all that long, long way and finally drops down into your
                            breast."
                     To the young writer it had then "seemed incredible that anything could strike into
                    the breast of the man who spoke." Howells was a giant, invulnerable, "dominant at
                    the very top 
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., November 28, 1899. The attribution to Tarkington is of course
                            conjectural, but as friend, host, and disciple of Howells he would probably have been
                            reluctant to let the intemperate remarks of the editor go unanswered. The balanced tone and
                            high mindedness of the letter; the plea for moderation; references to Mark Twain, Jane
                            Austen, and James Russell 
                                Lowell
                             and to the theater ("It is rather to be suspected that some of the
                            complaints of dullness are akin to the hisses of the villain … ."); and
                            use of argument by analogy all seem to point to Tarkington as the author. So especially do
                            the writer's close and appreciative knowledge of Howells' work and his
                            patent agreement with Howells' literary credo. Nor is the probability of
                            Tarkington's authorship seriously lessened by the signature "S."
                            A desire for anonymity would certainly have been consistent with his natural reticence, and
                            it is understandable that in this case he might not have wished to appear either contentious
                            in opposing the editor (whom he doubtless knew) or presumptuous in supporting
                        Howells.
               
                     of possible attainment."44 Ten
                    days later Tarkington better appreciated the dangers from dots with arrows.
            Whether Howells ever felt any of these particular arrows, he did not say. What he did say, had it
                    become known, would likely have brought out spears. Scarcely aboard the train for 
                        Detroit
                     he wrote his second letter that day to his wife. It reveals a deep disquiet, though it
                    begins innocuously enough: "
                        Indianapolis
                     is a stately and a beautifully livable city; there is a great Denkmal in it that is
                    distinctly noble, and gives the capital square a very European effect. Asphalt everywhere, and
                    comfort down to the poorest. People gentle and easy spoken. Workingman's family that came
                    to their door to tell me where Whitcomb Riley lived—all very sweet and kind
                    Americans." Yet Howells sensed in the atmosphere something less than noble, for he added:
                    "But I can feel an intolerance in the air. We are freer
                    in the East, and say what we think. In West, I sh'd be first mobbed with praise and then,
                    if I differed, with rotten eggs. People are freer from West to East. In the W.
                    they are all terrible water drinkers—they must be topers or temperance, just as they must
                    be saints or sinners. People are free, only as they are rude,
                    here… . Lots of people came up after the lecture, and stuffed me with
                        praise."45
            
            Clearly, whatever misgivings Howells felt in general about the West—by which he always
                    meant the Midwest—came to a sharp focus in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In the literary realm the midwestern disposition towards polarities, lamented by this
                    native Ohioan, made saints of the novelists of sanctimony and uplift and sinners of the
                    "naughty" Tolstoy and "filth-loving" Howells. He had reason to
                    suppose that the literati of 
                        Indianapolis
                     valued his appearance at least as much for the opportunity it presented them to show
                    off their culture as for the chance it gave them to hear his ideas. His linking of
                    "praise" and "intolerance" indicates that he did not wholly
                    interpret the applause for his lecture as tolerance for its content. And since he
                    "differed," the rotten eggs that splattered him in the press and the arrows that
                    pursued him probably would not have greatly surprised him.
            
               
                  44 Tarkington, "Introduction," xiv.
               
                  45 Howells to Mrs. Howells, November 19, 1899 (second letter), Mildred
                        Howells, ed., Life in Letters of William Dean Howells, II,
                    116–17.
            
            
            Despite his strong reservations, however, Howells was genuinely pleased with much of his reception in
                    Indiana's capital city. And he would have known that many besides Tarkington in his
                    "great and good" audience would resent rude treatment of a respectful visitor
                    whether they agreed with his ideas or not. He had fought a lonely and discouraging battle for those
                    ideas and was then exerting a revolutionary influence which was, as Tarkington recognized,
                    "the most profound and subtle that has been exerted upon the letters of his
                        country."46 But that influence had scarcely begun to be felt in
                    this major literary capital in 1899. If Howells had hoped to offset somewhat the dominance of
                    romantic falsities in Hoosier literary taste, he doubtless sensed that, for the time at least, he
                    had failed.
            After leaving 
                        Indianapolis
                     Howells delivered in the next eight days his last four lectures—in
                            
                  Detroit, Columbus, Cincinnati
               , and 
                        Hamilton
                    —then returned to 
                        New York
                     so exhausted that "he alarmed his wife," so his daughter said,
                    "by sleeping for twenty-four hours."47 For the next two weeks,
                    Howells wrote Clemens, "I slept 15 hours a night. Two hours after breakfast, I took a long
                    nap, and in the afternoon, I had two long naps… . My head felt sprained, and I had stored up a disorder of the Pneumo-gastric nerve, that made my heart jump
                    a beat every now and then … ."48 And nearly a month after
                    getting home he wrote his sister: "I have hardly yet got back to my old working trim
                    … ."49 He was not likely to neglect again his aversion to
                    the "ghastly work" with its "terrible strain." When Major Pond
                    jumped at him with lucrative contracts for more lecturing, Howells steadfastly refused. "I
                    am not hungry enough yet," he said.50 And this time, that did end it.
            
               
                  46 Tarkington, "Introduction," xviii.
               
                  47 Mildred Howells, ed., Life in Letters of William Dean
                            Howells, II, 117.
               
                  48 Howells to Samuel Clemens, January 14, 1900, ibid.,
                        II, 120.
               
                  49 Howells to Aurelia H. Howells, December 24, 1899, ibid., II, 117.
               
                  50 Quoted in Meserole, "Dean in Person," 339.
            
         
         
         
            The Conine Family Letters, 1849–1851: Employed in Honest Business and Doing the Best We
                    Can
            Edited by Donald E. Baker Contributed by Ruth 
                        Seymour
                     Burmester∗
            
            Despite the emphasis most historical writers place on "great" personalities,
                    "major" events, and "significant" movements, nations are built
                    and history is made by ordinary people, "average" individuals and
                    "typical" families, living from day to day, pitting their strength and weakness
                    against the problems of their age and place, winning some of their battles and losing others, but
                    employed "in honest business and trying to do the best … [they]
                        can."1 In the 
                        United States
                     much of the history of the so called common man has been lost. Too many momentos,
                    letters, and papers that "nobody would want" have been consigned to the
                    traditional postfuneral bonfire, as Americans, like the Vikings of old, have made almost a ritual of
                    burning the precious personal possessions of their dead. Unless great grandfather fought at 
                        Shiloh
                     or granddad charged up San Juan Hill—and even if they did so such
                    things—the shreds and remnants of their existence are too often swept away, leaving only
                    bare and 
                  
                     ∗ Ruth 
                                Seymour
                             Burmester—Mrs. Chris Burmester of Reedsburg, 
                                Wisconsin
                            —is the granddaughter of Mary Ann Conine 
                                Seymour
                            , the recipient of all but one of the Conine family letters. The complete,
                            original Conine letters, in addition to letters and other records of the family of Mary
                            Ann's husband, Silas J. Seymour, are in Mrs. Burmester's possession. Cited
                            herein as the Conine-
                                Seymour
                             Collection, this material, along with a number of very helpful letters from
                            Mrs. Burmester to the editorial staff of the Indiana Magazine of History,
                            is the source of the personal and biographical information about the Conine family which is
                            presented in this introduction. The pictures which accompany the published letters were also
                            contributed by Mrs. Burmester.
                  
                     1 Catharine Conine Skinner to Mary Ann Conine, January 5, 1849,
                            printed below.
               
                     colorless entries in the public records to testify to their
                    ever having lived.
            The Conine family letters represent the rare exception to the rule that one generation's
                    treasure is another's trash. Found by Ruth 
                        Seymour
                     Burmester in the Sauk County, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , home in which three generations of her family had lived, most of the letters were
                    written to Mrs. Burmester's grandmother, Mary Ann Conine 
                        Seymour
                    , by Mary Ann's father Derrick Conine and her sister Jane in western 
                        New York
                     and by her sisters Emily and Catharine and her brother Horace in northern Indiana.
                    Valued and preserved by Mrs. Burmester as a bridge to her family's past, the letters are
                    "homely" in the good old fashioned sense of that word. They are intimate,
                    unpretentious, unpolished compositions concerned almost exclusively with the familiar affairs of
                    domestic life—marriage, birth, sickness, death, family problems, and, since all the
                    Conines lived on farms, the weather and the price of crops. Because four members of the family
                    taught school at one time or another2 and because the Conines'
                    religious ties were strong, much of that fraction of the correspondence which does not bear directly
                    on life in the farmhouse is devoted to events in the schoolhouse and meetinghouse. Nevertheless,
                    though their range of topics was somewhat limited, the Conines had much to say. They overflowed
                    their letters with news, questions, advice, and felicitations, squeezing in late additions and
                    postscripts all up and down the margins, around the corners, and topsy turvy over the headings.3 Some of those letters, the ones written by Catharine, Emily, and Jane Conine
                    between January, 1849, and November, 1851, are published here, 
                  
                     2 Emily Conine taught school in Indiana throughout the period of the
                            Conine correspondence. Mary Ann Conine and Jane Conine each taught school in 
                                New York
                            , Mary Ann before her marriage in 1851 and Jane in the midfifties. Silas J.
                            Seymour taught off and on in 
                                New York
                             from about 1843 to about 1849.
                  
                     3 The preceding sentence is a close paraphrase of the description of
                            the letters in [Ruth 
                                Seymour
                             Burmester, "Good Husbands in the West"], Creative 
                                    Wisconsin
                                : A Magazine for Writers and Readers, II (June, 1955), 37. This article
                            is a "creative non-fiction essay" on the marriage of Silas 
                                Seymour
                             and Mary Ann Conine and on the marriages of Silas' sisters Elizabeth
                            and Clarissa. It was erroneously published under the title "Old Letters to An
                            Editor" by Alice Dixon Taylor, but the mistake was acknowledged and corrected in
                            the Autumn, 1955, issue of Creative 
                                    Wisconsin
                                .
                  
               
                     along with a reminiscence by Mary Ann Conine 
                        Seymour
                     of her first year in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . The letters dating from September, 1852, to April, 1863, including all of those of
                    Derrick and Horace Conine and most of those of Jane Conine, are scheduled for a future issue of the
                        Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            By January 5, 1849, when the first letter was written, Catharine, Emily, and Horace Conine had
                    already left their home in 
                        Wyoming
                     County, 
                        New York
                    , and migrated to Indiana. Catharine, aged twenty-four, and her husband William
                        Skinner4 were working to carve a farm out of the woods in 
                        Springfield
                     Township, north of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 
                        Allen County
                    , where "the deers roam[ed] plentifully and the wolf … [was]
                    occasionaly heard and now and then a bear … [was] seen."5
                    Earlier settlers in the Middle West had "engaged in a heroic struggle in the blazing of new
                    trails, the establishment of homes, and the protection from the Red Man … ."6 By 1850 the newer trails were being blazed with iron rails and wooden ties and
                    the last Indian war was eighteen years in the past, but for a young couple like the Skinners, poor
                    and far from home, the process of striking out into a new country and fixing themselves on the land
                    was still a far cry from the exhilarating experience sometimes portrayed by latter day romantics. As
                    Catharine's letters demonstrate, even at midcentury there was much privation, loneliness,
                    and arduous labor involved in converting a wilderness tract into a working farm capable of
                    supporting a man and his family.
            Close by the Skinners, in Scipio Township of 
                        Allen County
                    , twenty-six year old Emily Conine was teaching algebra, philosophy, and physiology
                    "of the higher branches" in a district school. Between terms she stayed with her
                        
                  
                     4 Catharine Conine (1824–1915) married William Skinner in
                            1847. Their children were Wallace, who died in infancy; Emily Louisa (1849–1873);
                            William Albert (b. 1853); Lewis (1855–1888); George; and Ida Mary
                            (1863–1941). The Skinners lived in Indiana from at least the fall of 1848 until
                            February, 1850, when they moved to McHenry County, 
                                Illinois
                            . They later lived in 
                                Minnesota
                            , and Catharine spent her last years at Whitewater, 
                                Wisconsin
                            .
                  
                     5 Catharine Conine Skinner to Mary Ann Conine, January 5, 1849,
                            printed below. The misspellings of the original letters are retained in all quotations.
                  
                     6 R. Carlyle Buley, "Pioneer Health and Medical Practices in
                            the Old Northwest Prior to 1840," Mississippi Valley Historical
                                Review, XX (March, 1934), 520.
               
                     older brother Horace and his family, who were farming just over
                    the 
                        DeKalb
                     County line to the north, near Newville.7 While school was in
                    session, however, she boarded with the families of her pupils, an inherently awkward but very common
                    arrangement made more difficult for Emily by her having to accept very primitive living conditions
                    on occasion and by her having to cope constantly with gossip that the spinster
                    "schoolmam" was about to marry and "take school for life."8 Just as Catharine's letters dim some of the glow of the log cabin
                    tradition, Emily's descriptions of the physical adjustment which settlers faced in newly
                    occupied areas throw a somewhat exceptional light on the proverbial sturdiness of the pioneer.
                    Wherever swamps had not been drained or good wells dug, malarial fevers were prevalent, and the
                    ague, the most common of those fevers, asserted its claims, so Emily wrote, on every newcomer to
                    northeastern Indiana. Victims of the ague's raging heat, racking head pains, and tooth
                    chattering chills were left walking about "with ghost like visage" when the
                    disease at last loosened its grasp. While for some the ordeal of establishing a kind of immunity to
                    the ague—"naturalization" Emily called it—was mercifully
                    swift, for others the debilitating "tug of war" recurred in its season for
                        years.9
            
            The rest of the Conine family were still in 
                        New York
                     in 1849, although the eldest sister Clarinda, from whom no letters survive, would soon
                    be moving to Wisconsin with her husband Lyman Howard and their five children.10
                    Only the two youngest Conines, twenty-one year old Mary Ann and 
                  
                     7 Horace Conine (1820–1903) married Mary Buckhout (b.
                            1827). They had six children: Horace Burton (1846–1903); Mary Augusta (b. 1848);
                            Myron 
                                Washington
                            , called "Milo" (1851–1921); Alice Marian
                            (1852–1873); Arthur Howard (1856–1881); and Agnes Miriam (b. 1861).
                  
                     8 Emily Conine to Mary Ann Conine, February 2, 1850, printed below.
                            Emily (1822–1885) married John Dorsey (1822–1881) in 1850. Their only
                            child, Mary Delucia, was born in December, 1851.
                  
                     9 Emily Conine to Mary Ann Conine with postscript to Jane Conine,
                            [Autumn, 1849], printed below. The symptoms and effects of the ague are vividly depicted in
                            R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815–1840
                            (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), I, 244–45.
                  
                     10 Clarinda Conine (1818–1883) married Lyman Howard
                            (1805-c, 1873), probably about 1838. They had nine children altogether, two of whom died in
                            infancy. Those who survived were Francis (1839–1894); Henry
                            (1840–1909); Hiram; Mary Jane (1846–1926); Charles F.
                            (1847–1938); Adelia (1851–1938); and Ed (1854–1895). The
                            Howards moved to 
                        Milwaukee, Wisconsin
                     , in 1850, a year later to
                            Dellona, Sauk County, 
                                Wisconsin
                            , and in 1853 to 
                                Newport
                            , a river town not far from Kilbourn City (now Wisconsin Dells).
               
                     fifteen year old Jane, were as yet living at home with their
                    father Derrick. After the death in 1841 of the girls' mother, Abigail Bates Conine, Derrick
                    had married Betsey Worden, who is variously referred to in the Conine letters as "Aunt
                    Bets," "our mar," and "Madame Sunflower."11 Mary Ann and Jane experienced a trying period of adjustment after their
                    father's remarriage, a time from all appearances no less trying for their stepmother, and
                    matters reached a crisis when Mrs. Conine left her husband for two months in the summer of 1849.
                    Derrick coaxed her back, but then Mary Ann and Jane ran away to stay with neighbors. They were
                    eventually forced to return home when their father went after them whip in hand, if Emily's
                    account can be credited. Mary Ann was extricated from this troubled household in 1851 when Silas J.
                    Seymour, who had removed to Wisconsin from 
                        Wyoming
                     County in 1849, returned to 
                        New York
                     long enough to marry her and took her back with him to his cabin in the West.12 Yet, despite the situation at home, Mary Ann found separation from family and
                    childhood associations difficult. "Little can the young people, who marry & settle
                    near their old home," she wrote years later, "realize how hard it is to sever the
                    ties that bind us to home & kindred & seek a new home in a land of
                        strangers[.]"13 Jane Conine, her relationship with her
                    "mar" apparently becoming more tranquil as time passed, remained in 
                        New York
                     until 1857 or 1858. In the latter year, during a visit to Indiana, she encountered
                        
                  
                     11 Derrick Conine was born in Freehold, Monmouth County, 
                                New Jersey
                            , in 1797 and at age five he moved with his parents to Windham, 
                                Greene County
                            , 
                                New York
                            . Sometime before 1818 he married Abigail Bates (b. 1798), who is said to have
                            been from 
                                Connecticut
                            . The five older Conine children—Clarinda, Horace, Emily, Catharine,
                            and Mary Ann—were born in 
                                Greene County
                             before 1828, when the family moved to the area which later became 
                                Wyoming
                             County, 
                                New York
                            . There Jane, the youngest Conine daughter, was born in 1833. After the death of
                            Abigail Bates Conine in 1841, Derrick Conine married Betsey Worden. Derrick Conine died on
                            August 5, 1882, and Betsey Worden Conine died five months later, on January 20, 1883, at age
                            eighty-two.
                  
                     12 Mary Ann Conine (1827–1909) and Silas J. Seymour
                            (1824–1899) were married on September 23, 1851, and moved to Silas'
                            homestead in Dellona, Sauk County, 
                                Wisconsin
                            . They had five children: Ellen Augusta (1851–1880); Ida Jane
                            (1855–1876); Merton Eugene (1858–1944); Walter Frederick
                            (1862–1928); and Arthur Romeyn (1872–1955). Letters to and from Silas
                            J. Seymour dated between 1849, when he first went to 
                                Wisconsin
                            , and 1854 were compiled by Ruth 
                                Seymour
                             Burmester and were published in the Wisconsin Magazine of
                            History, XXXII (December, 1948; March, June, 1949), 188–99,
                            328–38, 456–71.
                  
                     13 Mary Ann Conine 
                                Seymour
                            , "Reminiscences of Forty Years Ago," printed below.
               
                     countered an available man, married him, and settled after a
                    time in 
                        Allen County
                    .14 With a trace of bitterness, Derrick Conine lamented that his
                    children had "all bin so lucky to gat so far of[f] that I cant sea them any more and thay
                    will not be troubeld with me[.]"15
            
            The Conines, like any family, had their domestic problems, but it should not be inferred that those
                    difficulties were the reason Derrick's children preferred to move west rather than to
                    remain in 
                        New York
                    . The younger Conines were actually part of a mass emigration from 
                        Wyoming
                     and surrounding counties of the Genesee Valley in the 1840s and 1850s. The exodus
                    included such friends of Mary Ann and Jane Conine as Emily Forbs, who set out in 1852 to join her
                    husband in 
                        Illinois
                    ; George and Jane Coleman, who took their wedding trip to Ohio that same year, intending
                    to stay there if prospects seemed favorable; Elizabeth and Martha Graves, who were, it was supposed,
                    halfway to Oregon in the spring of 1853;16 and countless others, acquaintances
                    and strangers alike, who judged that their futures in the Genesee country were less than promising.
                    Not only was the supply of available farms becoming insufficient for the ever increasing number of
                    youths who were of an age to leave their parents' homes and to begin establishments of
                    their own, but it required a heavy investment of capital to purchase what farms there were, to
                    modernize them, and to overcome three or four decades of soil depletion. Under such circumstances,
                    the "Michigan fever"—the powerful lure of cheaper and more abundant
                    lands not only in Michigan but seemingly anywhere to the westward—proved well nigh
                    irresistible and carried off large numbers of single men like Silas 
                        Seymour
                    , then marriageable young women like Emily and Jane Conine, and even whole families like
                    the Howards.17
            
            
               
                  14 Jane Conine (1833–1916) married John Hawkins
                        (1836–1902) over the strong objections of her sister Emily and brother Horace.
                        Besides a daughter who died in infancy, the Hawkinses had two children: Clarence Merton
                        (1861–1948) and Cora (1868–1914).
               
                  15 Derrick Conine to [Mary Ann Conine 
                            Seymour
                        , 1857?], Conine-
                            Seymour
                         Collection.
               
                  16 The departures of Emily Forbs and George and Jane Coleman are mentioned
                        in Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine 
                            Seymour
                        , September 15, 1852, Conine-
                            Seymour
                         Collection. For Elizabeth and Martha Graves, see Mary W. C. Packard to Mary Ann
                        Conine 
                            Seymour
                        , May 25, 1853, Conine-
                            Seymour
                         Collection.
               
                  17 The condition of the farmer in the Genesee Valley in the 1840s and
                        1850s is described in Neil Adams McNall, An Agricultural History of the Genesee
                            Valley, 1790–1860 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1952), 228–44.
            
            
            Not all who succumbed to the enticements of the West found that the reality approached their
                    expectations. The Colemans, for example, did not find Ohio to their liking, and some who traveled to
                            
                  Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin
               , or beyond
                    only found themselves more dissatisfied at journey's end than they had been at home.18 But while a few came back to 
                        New York
                     to stay, most of the emigrants, like the Conines, returned to their old homes only
                    temporarily, if at all, to visit, to claim a bride as Silas 
                        Seymour
                     did, or to exhibit a new husband as Emily Conine did in 1851 and Jane Conine did in
                    1858. By 1850 there were nearly four hundred thousand natives of "York State"
                    living in the Old Northwest. Over one third of 
                        Michigan
                    's population was 
                        New York
                     born, Wisconsin was in a fair way of becoming "
                        New York
                    's daughter state," and Indiana and Illinois were receiving New
                    Yorkers into their sparsely settled northern reaches by the tens of thousands.19
                    While it cannot be ascertained how many of these people were from the Genesee area, it can at least
                    be said that the Conines and other former 
                        Wyoming
                     County residents often discovered that their neighbors'
                    names—Sweet, Skinner, and Worden in 
                        Allen County
                    , Indiana; Hitchcock, Crouch, Chapel, and Sweet in McHenry County, 
                        Illinois
                    ; Pelton in Sauk County, 
                        Wisconsin
                    —had a familiar Genesee ring to them.20
            
            In spite of the fact that many of their fellow immigrants 
                  
                     18 George and Jane Coleman were farming back in 
                                Wyoming
                             County, 
                                New York
                            , in 1860. U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, population schedules for 
                                Wyoming
                             County, 
                                New York
                             (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 653, roll 883), 629. Examples of
                            others who returned to 
                                Wyoming
                             County after spending but a short time in the West may be found in F. W. Beers
                            & Co. pubs., History of 
                                    Wyoming
                                 County, N.Y. … (
                                New York
                            , 1880), 124, 169, 172, 234, 247, 249, 253, 289, 290, 295.
                  
                     19 J. D. B. DeBow, Statistical View of the 
                                    United States
                                , … Being a Compendium of the Seventh Census
                                [1850] … (
                                Washington
                            , 1854), 116–18; Edward P. Alexander, "
                        Wisconsin, New
                            York
                     's Daughter State," Wisconsin
                                Magazine of History, XXX (September, 1946), 11–30; Elfrieda Lang,
                            "Immigration to Northern Indiana, 1800–1850" (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University, 1950), 65; William Vipond Pooley,
                                The Settlement of Illinois from 1830 to 1850 (Bulletin of the University of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , No. 220; 
                                Madison
                            , 1908), 391–95; 421–39.
                  
                     20 Brant & Fuller, pubs., Valley of the Upper
                                Maumee River with Historical Account of 
                                    Allen County
                                 and the City of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , Indiana … (2 vols., 
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1889), I, 350, 351; U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules for 
                                Allen County
                            , Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 432, roll 135), 421, 430,
                            431; U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules for McHenry County, 
                                Illinois
                             (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. T-6, roll 87), 760, 764, 775, 789;
                            Burmester, "Good Husbands in the West," 39.
               
                     were New Yorkers, it may be questioned whether the Conines are
                    really representative of those who settled in the Old Northwest in the 1840s and 1850s. Certainly
                    they were well educated compared with the many newcomers from other states who had not had the
                    advantage of access to 
                        New York
                    's excellent academy system.21 Mary Ann, Jane, Silas 
                        Seymour
                    , and very likely Emily received academy educations.22 With the
                    possible exception of Clarinda, the rest of the family were at least literate;23
                    their informal writing, crude when judged by modern notions of proper spelling and grammar, is not
                    at all inferior to that exhibited in many of the letters which survive from their day. But education
                    aside, no obvious material or cultural characteristic sets the Conines apart from their neighbors.
                    Like the vast majority of their countrymen, they all derived their livelihood from the soil, either
                    directly or, in the case of Jane's husband, who was a miller, from the processing of raw
                    agricultural products. To the extent that can be determined from the valuation of real estate given
                    in the population schedules of the manuscript federal census, none of the Conine related families
                    were significantly better or worse off than most of the people living around them, at least in
                        1850.24 Only Silas 
                        Seymour
                    , who served two terms in the Wisconsin legislature in 1876–1877, 
                  
                     21
                            
                                New York
                             academies of the midnineteenth century were essentially secondary schools,
                            though elementary and even college level subjects might be offered. In 1850 there were
                            27,653 students attending 
                                New York
                            's 163 incorporated academies. See George Fredrick Miller, The Academy System of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                      (
                                Albany
                            , 1922), 31–32, 34.
                  
                     22 Mary Ann and Jane Conine each attended 
                                Middlebury
                             Academy in the village of 
                        Wyoming,
                                    Wyoming
                      County, not far from the Conine
                            home in Perry Township. Founded in 1817, 
                                Middlebury
                             "was the center of teacher-training in western 
                                New York
                             for many years." [Harry S. Douglass], "
                                Middlebury
                             Academy Opened," Historical 
                                    Wyoming
                                
                      (21 vols., mimeographed/multilithed, Arcade, 
                                New York
                            , 1947–1968), V (September, 1951), 12. Jane Conine also studied at
                            Perry Academy in the village of Perry, 
                                Wyoming
                             County. Silas J. Seymour attended Manlius Academy, Manlius, 
                                New York
                            . Emily Conine need not have received academy training in order to have taught
                            school, but it seems probable that she did so.
                  
                     23 The absence of any letters from Clarinda Conine Howard to Mary Ann
                            Conine could be explained by the fact that the two lived quite near each other, first in 
                                New York
                             and then in 
                                Wisconsin
                            . However, there are indications throughout the later letters that such
                            communications as the rest of the family received from the Howards were written by
                            Clarinda's daughters rather than by Clarinda herself.
                  
                     24 The value of the Conines' real estate may be compared with
                            that of their neighbors in the 1850 manuscript federal censuses for McHenry County, 
                                Illinois
                            ; Allen and 
                                DeKalb
                             counties, Indiana; 
                                Wyoming
                             County, 
                                New York
                            ; and Sauk County, 
                                Wisconsin
                            , in National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 432, rolls 117, 135, 142,
                            616–17, 1006.
               
                     1877, achieved or, so far as is known, even sought any degree
                    of prominence. The others seem to have lived and died in complete obscurity, not even indulging
                    themselves by purchasing biographical sketches in the subscriptive histories of their counties.25 What does distinguish the Conines, however, not only from their neighbors but
                    from millions of their contemporaries, is the purely fortuitous circumstance that something of
                    themselves has survived into the present, a simple, unadorned record, written "Just as
                    … [they] would talk"26 and disclosing a few of their
                    virtues, many of their flaws, and some of the occupations of their minds and hearts. Although the
                    record is assuredly incomplete, the Conine letters depict in realistic terms the life of one family
                    in the rural America of the midnineteenth century.
            
               
                  25 Silas J. Seymour is the exception. Biographical sketches of him may be
                        found in Geo. A. Ogle & Co., pubs., Memorial and Biographical Record and
                            Illustrated Compendium of Biography … of Prominent Old Settlers and
                            Representative Citizens of 
                                Columbia
                            , Sauk and Adams Counties, 
                                Wisconsin
                            
                   … (
                            Chicago
                        , 1901), 235; and in Western Historical Company, pubs., The History of
                            Sauk County, 
                                Wisconsin
                            
                   … (
                            Chicago
                        , 1888), 747.
               
                  26 Mary M. Hitchcock to Mary Ann and Jane Conine, January 28, 1850,
                        printed below.
            
            
               MARY ANN CONINE SEYMOUR c. 1875
            
            
            The Conine Family Letters, 1849–18511
            
            
                    Catharine Conine Skinner to Mary Ann Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [postmarked Leo, Indiana]2
                              
                           
                                    Jan 5th 1849
                                
                        Dear sister
                        although far from you I thought perhaps we could talk a little by the aid of pen and
                                    ink I can say to you that we are 
                              
                                 1 The editing of the Conine family correspondence was
                                            accomplished using the original manuscript letters in the possession of Ruth 
                                                Seymour
                                             Burmester, Reedsburg, 
                                                Wisconsin
                                            . Every effort has been made to reproduce the handwritten
                                            documents as faithfully as possible within the limits imposed by the
                                            transfer to a printed medium. However, because punctuation, spelling, and
                                            format are erratic throughout the correspondence, the intentions of the
                                            several writers involved are susceptible in many instances to a wide range
                                            of interpretation. In the interests of clarity, readability, and a
                                            reasonable degree of consistency, the following editorial practices have
                                            been adopted. The indentation of the first lines of paragraphs and the
                                            spacing of headings, salutations, and closings have been standardized.
                                            Interlineations have been inserted into the text where indicated by the
                                            writers of the original letters, and marginal notes have been placed after
                                            the closings. False word starts, flourishes, obviously unintentional
                                            repetitions, and stray marks which seemed to be the results of accidental
                                            restings of the pen on the paper have been omitted. Insertions by the editor
                                            appear within square brackets. Where words are missing or illegible in the
                                            manuscripts, such brackets enclose conjectural readings or, if the probable
                                            intent of the writer could not be inferred, appropriate explanations.
                                            Letters left out of words have also been supplied in brackets wherever not
                                            to have done so might have resulted in one word's being mistaken
                                            for another; otherwise, incorrect and phonetic spellings have been retained
                                            as found. In as many cases as possible persons mentioned by first or last
                                            name alone or by initials have been provided a conjectural identification
                                            based upon the appearance of persons with the same name or initials in
                                            similar contexts elsewhere in the letters. In the absence of other sources,
                                            speculative identifications have been drawn from the 
                                                United States
                                             census based upon the coincidence of names in the letters and
                                            in the population schedules. Missing punctuation has been inserted in
                                            brackets only when needed for clarity, but run on sentences have been broken
                                            up by spacing between clauses. At the ends of sentences, marks which could
                                            be interpreted either as periods or commas have been transcribed as periods,
                                            and since the various writers generally seem to have intended exclamation
                                            points after such expressions as "O!" the editor has
                                            adhered to that practice in doubtful situations. All superscript letters
                                            have been brought down to the line. Words underlined with a single stroke
                                            have been transcribed in italics, words underlined with two strokes appear
                                            in small capital letters, and words overlined with a single stroke appear in
                                            boldface type. Finally, in an attempt to avoid confusion, the word township
                                            has been used consistently in these footnotes to designate political
                                            subdivisions of counties, even though the correct term for such entities in 
                                                New York
                                             and Wisconsin is "town."
                              
                                 2 Leo was a post office in Cedar Creek Township, 
                                                Allen County
                                            , Indiana. Brant & Fuller, pubs., Valley of
                                                the Upper Maumee River, with Historical Account of 
                                                    Allen County
                                                 and the City of 
                                                    Fort Wayne
                                                , Indiana … (2 vols., 
                                                Madison
                                            , Wis., 1889), I, 333.
                           
                                     enjoying good health and I hope you are in
                                    possession of the same blessing I have learned by the way of mr Skinner's
                                    folks that you are at school3 I suppose you are taking a great
                                    deal of comfort I calculated to have writen to you before this time but have kept
                                    putting it off untill now but perhap it has suited you better than if I had writen
                                    for you seemed scarcely to remember me when you wrote to Emily4
                                    perhaps my connection at the east think we will never be any honor to them it is
                                    true we are poor and live in the woods where the deers roam plentifully and the wolf
                                    is occasionly heard and now and then a bear is seen but we are emploied in honest
                                    business and trying to do the best we can we have got 80 acres of land in the woods
                                    of Indianna a very level pleasant country5 we have got two acres
                                    cleared and fenced and four more pirty well under way we have got about five acres
                                    of wheat an the ground we raised corn enough for our use and to fat our pork we have
                                    got one old hog and three shoats now and about 130 pounds of pork in the house we
                                    have a cow so that we have milk and buter and plenty of corn bread but wheat is hard
                                    to be got on account of our not having mony I sometimes get to thinking of the
                                    priviledges which you enjoy and which I am deprived of I get to feeling discontented
                                    but I quickly banish such though[t]s and try to 
                              
                                 3 Mary Ann Conine was attending 
                                                Middlebury
                                             Academy in the village of 
                                    Wyoming, Wyoming
                                 
                                            County, 
                                                New York
                                            , not far from the Conine home in Perry Township in the same
                                            county. A letter from one of Mary Ann's friends, dated in 1853,
                                            marvelled: "How many changes have taken place since we roomed
                                            together at `Wyo'. could we then have looked four years into the
                                            future and seen what our history has been, would it not have appeared
                                            strange to us?" Mary W. C. Packard to Mary Ann Conine 
                                                Seymour
                                            , May 25, 1853, in the collection of Conine-
                                                Seymour
                                             letters in the possession of Ruth 
                                                Seymour
                                             Burmester. That "Wyo" actually refers to 
                                                Middlebury
                                             Academy becomes certain in Nancy Willes to Mary Ann Conine 
                                                Seymour
                                            , January 26, 1854, Conine-
                                                Seymour
                                             Collection, in which a Mr. Burbank is spoken of as former
                                            principal and a Mr. Weed as present principal at "Wyo."
                                            Professor David Burbank was president of 
                                                Middlebury
                                             Academy from 1846 to 1852, and Monroe Weed succeeded him from
                                            1852 to 1866. See F. W. Beers & Co., pubs., History of 
                                                    Wyoming
                                                 County, N.Y. … (
                                                New York
                                            , 1880), 218.
                              
                                 4 According to her letter of February 2, 1850, which
                                            is printed below, Emily Conine was teaching school in Scipio Township, 
                                                Allen County
                                            , Indiana. Scipio is the extreme northeastern township of 
                                                Allen County
                                            . 
                                                Springfield
                                             Township, where Catharine and William Skinner were living,
                                            borders Scipio on the west.
                              
                                 5 In 1850, 
                                                Allen County
                                             was "generally timbered, with occasional wet prairies,
                                            easily drained… . The most common timber … [was] oak,
                                            beech, walnut, buckeye, maple, ash, hickory, poplar, &c."
                                            E. Chamberlain, pub., The Indiana Gazetteer or Topographical
                                                Dictionary of the State of Indiana (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1850), 154.
                           
                                     be contented I should be glad to see you all
                                    but do not expect to very soon unless you come hear
                        
                                    Catharine Skinner
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Catharine Conine Skinner to Mary Ann Conine with a postscript to Jane Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Springfield
                                  [postmarked Leo, Indiana]
                           
                                    July 6th 1849
                                
                        Dear sister
                        I thought I would improve the preasant opportunity to write a few lines to you to let
                                    you know how we are getting along I ought to have writen before but have kept
                                    neglecting it until now We are enjoying tolerable good health and I hope when these
                                    few lines reach you that you can say the same I was very sorry to hear that you were
                                    sick I should consider it a great priviledge if I live near enough so that I could
                                    come and see you I feel it the greatest privation of my life to be seperated from
                                    near friends William says if we live and are prosperd he calculates to see that
                                    country a year from this fall So let us live in hopes that we shall see each other
                                    again but if it should be that we never meet again this side of the grave let us
                                    strive to meet in heaven I want to have you write to me the cause (if you know) why
                                    father has given up considering me as one of his childrin for certainly appearances
                                    would cause any one to think that he no longer considered me a child of his or els
                                    that I had done something very much out of the way he can write to Emily and
                                        Horace6 but has not writen one word to me since I came here
                                    I have writen to him twice and as I cannot form any idea why he does not write to me
                                    I think I had better stop writing to him until I know the cause I want you to write
                                    all the particulars how you are getting along at home7 I want to
                                        
                              
                                 6 Horace Conine was farming in Newville Township in
                                            the southeastern corner of 
                                                DeKalb
                                             County, Indiana. He was, then, just north across the county
                                            line from that part of 
                                                Allen County
                                             where his sisters Emily and Catharine were located. Horace had
                                            been in Indiana possibly as early as October, 1846, judging from the ages of
                                            those of his children recorded by the census taker as having been born in
                                            Indiana. See U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules for 
                                                DeKalb
                                             County, Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No.
                                            432, roll 142), 409.
                              
                                 7 Abigail Bates Conine, Derrick Conine's
                                            first wife, died in 1841, and probably not long before this correspondence
                                            commenced Derrick married
                           
                                     know if you take any more comfort than you did
                                    I also want to hear about the neighbors if thare is any news worth writing
                        Father wrote a leter to Horace which he is afraid to let us see I therfore conclude
                                    that thare must be something in it either aganst me or William or else his folks
                        he also sent the note he held against Wm in Horace's letter it all looks
                                    a[s] though there was something not exactly right If any one will explain the
                                    meaining to me they will relieve my mind of quite a burthen I am sorry to write any
                                    thing of this kind but my feelings required that I should (but enough of this
                        our wheat bids fair for quite a good crop Wm calculates to commence cutting it next
                                    week we have about three acres of corn which also looks quite well so that I feel in
                                    hopes that we shall not have to buy our bread this year we have got us a well just
                                    about as handy as fathers is to the house
                        I wish that you could come up hear and see how we look here in our log cabin It is
                                    true we are in the woods out of sight of any house but Wm has made quite an opening
                                    in the woods we have 7 acres cleared and calculate if health permit to have 10 by
                                    the time we have been on here a year building a house and barn and diging a well
                                    besides his having to work for provision has put him back about clearing
                        we expect to have a neighbor in sight in a few weeks and two or three more families
                                    are a going to moove on this fall Emily was here the 4th of this month she has been
                                    sick but is now so as to be in school
                        you wrote about my letter coming unsealed the reason was we sent it to the office and
                                    told the man that caried it to seal it there as we had no wafers in the house8 he promised 
                              Betsey Worden. Ruth 
                                                Seymour
                                             Burmester to Lorna Lutes Sylvester, December 13, 1972, files of
                                                Indiana Magazine of History, Indiana University. As
                                            the following letters make clear, Mary Ann and Jane Conine found living with
                                            their stepmother very difficult.
                              
                                 8 Although envelopes were coming into general use in
                                            the midnineteenth century, many people continued the old practice of merely
                                            folding their letters so that the writing was inside, sealing them with wax
                                            or a wafer of dried paste, writing the address on the outside, and sending
                                            them off with no cover at all. As might be expected, the absence of
                                            envelopes left private correspondence very vulnerable to public inspection.
                                            See Wayne E. Fuller, The American Mail: Enlarger of the Common
                                                Life (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1972), 47.
                           
                                     he would but it appears he neglected it Write
                                    as soon as you get this
                        
                                    from your sister
                                    Catharine Skinner
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear sister Jane
                        I received your and Mary's letter which brought the pleasing news that you
                                    were all well and I calculated to have writen in return before this time but have
                                    kept puting it off untill now I should be very glad to see you all but probably
                                    shall not right away unless you come here I may perhaps see that country a year from
                                    ths fall if we are prosperd and health will permit
                        I wish you would dry some currents and sent to me when Mr Skinner9 comes up if you can I suppose there will not be any other fruit that will be
                                    ripe by that time we have peach trees ana current bushes sot out so that probably we
                                    shall [have] a little fruit next year it blasted this year on account of being taken
                                        up10 I want you and Mary to write to me as so[o]n as you get
                                    this and write all the ness you think will be interesting to me Wm is busy a writing
                                    to his folks or he would write some to you he says tell them I would be glad to see
                                    them
                        We had the bad luck this spring to loose all the cow we had one of our neighbors was
                                    carless enough to leave surrop in his woods and our cow drank it we raised the calf
                                    by hand we were obliged to run in debt for another cow
                        now do not forget to write
                        
                                    from your sister
                                    C… . . Skinner
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  9 Mr. Skinner was probably William Skinner's father, Jonas
                        Skinner, of 
                            Wyoming
                         County, 
                            New York
                        .
               
                  10 The fact that the fruit "blasted," in this case was
                        ruined by transplanting, suggests that Catharine Skinner may have brought the currant bushes and
                        peach trees with her to Indiana from 
                            New York
                        , just as Mary Ann Conine later took cherry and plum stones with her when she
                        married and moved to 
                            Wisconsin
                         (see footnote 67). Fruit culture seems to have represented a major part of Derrick
                        Conine's agricultural activity, for his farm produced apples as well as plums,
                        cherries, currants, and peaches. Jane Conine commented one autumn, after drying fifteen or
                        twenty bushels of peaches and about forty of apples, that it was "a particular blessing
                        of ours, always fruit enough to work to kill common people … ." Jane Conine
                        to Mary Ann Conine 
                            Seymour
                        , October 22, 1854, Conine-
                            Seymour
                         Collection. This abundance at home explains why Catharine felt so strongly, as
                        evidenced in the following letter, the shortage of fresh fruit on the frontier.
            
            
            
               CATHARINE CONINE SKINNER C.
                    1893
            
            
            
                    Catharine Conine Skinner to Mary Ann Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Springfield
                                  [postmarked Leo, Indiana]
                           
                                    Sept 27th 1848 [1849]11
                           
                                
                        Dear sister
                        I improve the presant opportunity to write a few lines to you to let you know how we
                                    are getting along we are enjoying tolerable good health we have a little girl12 she was born the 24th of august I intended to have writen
                                    before but could not very well I was glad to hear from you but sorry to hear that
                                    you have so much trouble I feel as though it was rather hard for you to be deprived
                                    of a home13 I would be willing to help you if I could but I
                                    cannot unless you come to this country If you should either of you think best to
                                    come hear you will be welcome to a home with us be carefull of your health and not
                                    work to hard Horace's folks were well the last I heard from there Emily was
                                    here last Sunday with a young man that report says she is a going 
                              
                                 11 Three pieces of internal evidence date this letter
                                            as 1849 rather than. 1848. First, when the Skinners were counted in the 1850
                                            census on October 22, 1850 (see footnote 53), their little girl Emily
                                            Louisa, whose birth is mentioned in this letter, was listed as being one
                                            year old. If the census report is correct, she must have been born August
                                            24, 1849, instead of 1848. Second, Mary Ann and Jane Conine were not
                                            "deprived of a home," as Catharine says, until late
                                            summer, 1849, as described in footnote thirteen. Finally, Catharine speaks
                                            of the weather in Indiana as better "this fall" than last.
                                            If the letter were correctly dated September, 1848, then she would have to
                                            have been in Indiana as early as the fall of 1847. However, in her letter of
                                            July 6, 1849, she says that they hope to have ten acres cleared by the time
                                            they have been on the land a year. That statement would suggest that the
                                            Skinners did not arrive in Indiana until after July, 1848.
                              
                                 12 This daughter, Emily Louisa, was the
                                            Skinners' second child. The first, a son named Wallace, died either
                                            before Emily Louisa was born or shortly thereafter. The Skinners eventually
                                            had four other children. Ruth 
                                                Seymour
                                             Burmester to Donald E. Baker, March 1, 15, August 31, 1973.
                              
                                 13 Silas J. Seymour, who later married Mary Ann
                                            Conine, received the following account of the trouble in the Conine
                                            household: "Mrs. Conine [2nd wife] ran away from her husband and
                                            stayed 2 months He then commenced a 2nd courtship and coaxed her back, but
                                            the girls have left home." Elizabeth 
                                                Seymour
                                             to Silas J. Seymour, November 12, 1849, [Ruth 
                                                Seymour
                                             Burmester, comp.], "Silas J. Seymour Letters
                                            (II)," Wisconsin Magazine of History, XXXII
                                            (March, 1949), 331. Silas J. Seymour and his sister Elizabeth had moved from 
                                                New York
                                             to Wisconsin in May, 1849. In the letter cited, Elizabeth was
                                            relaying news she had received from their parents, who had obtained their
                                            information about the Conines at first hand. As Elizabeth explained to
                                            Silas: "Mary Ann Conine had made them a visit. She sent her love to
                                            western folks—I suppose YOU come in for a share of
                                            course."
                           
                                     to marry how true that is I cannot tell She is
                                    going to continue her school as long as the going continues to be good she expect to
                                    earn 40 dollars this summer Thare is a great need of good teacher in this country
                                    Emily is thought to be something more than common she is liked so well we have had
                                    very pleasant weather here this fall much pleasanter than it was last I am drying
                                    peaches we bought four bushels for 18 cents per bushel if I could have some apples
                                    to dry and eat I should be very glad I feel sometimes as if I could not do with
                                    [out] them but I know that I must If we should have good luck we are thinking of
                                    seeing that part of the wourld next fall if we live Continue to let me know how you
                                    get along as often as you can
                        
                                    I remain your affectionate sister
                                    C Skinner
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Emily Conine to Mary Ann Conine with a postscript to Jane Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [Newville, Indiana
                           
                                    Autumn, 1849]14
                           
                                
                        Dear sister
                        At your request I again pen a few lines to you in reply to the letter you sent by Mr
                                    Skinner I regret that he returned without calling on me I did not know that he had
                                    been here till he had been gone more than a week. I have been at Horace'es
                                    three weeks and shall remain through the remainder of my vacation which will be
                                    about two weeks more. I teach the school that I taught last winter and this summer I
                                    have $12 a month this winter I could have got more if I had not engaged
                                    so soon, but I will not regret it. The school is as good as any in these diggins. We
                                    do not have the facilities for teaching here that you do, but the pleasure of
                                    knowing that our labours are appreciated is a great satisfaction. I can do as well
                                    teaching here as there. I have become quite contented since my naturalizeation15 and think of staying here I would 
                              
                                 14 There is no date on the manuscript letter, but
                                            "Newville, Indiana, Autumn, 1849," can be presumed from
                                            Emily Conine's statement in the text that she is at her brother
                                            Horace's and from her references to the trouble at home.
                              
                                 15 As becomes clear later in this letter, Emily Conine
                                            uses the word naturalization in its now uncommon meaning of
                                        acclimatization.
                           
                                     like very much to see you and Jane in your day
                                    of trouble for your afflictions are severe. I say yours for it
                                    does not affect me so materially, although I deeply feel on the subject You feel the
                                    need of a home now as much as I. You requested me to write something consoling to
                                    father after madam Sunflower left.16 I did but I understand
                                    there was something in those letters (for H[orace] wrote to) (that offnded father)
                                    If he was offended at that one I would like to know what he said to the next for I
                                    have written since I heard madam had got back. I understand he burned the first, the
                                    last without doubt shared the same fate, be that as it may I care not he will not be
                                    troubled with paying any more postage at present17 His going and
                                    coixing her home after she has done as she has, weans me completely. He must like to
                                    be choked and I hope he will get enough. I am sorry he has been so foolish but I
                                    expected it. I would like to be at home a few days to talk [to] Bets you better
                                    believe I would ease my mind of a troublesome burthen I wish I had come down during
                                    my vacation for my things I dont want under madams supervision. You wrote to know
                                    whether you could put down my carpet I mad[e] no reply Catharine told Horace that
                                    she thought Mr S. said you had I want to know if you did. I would not have had it
                                    done for ten dollars I could not think you would do it I told you not to disturb my
                                    things without my orders I wanted the privaledge of cutting my own carpet. I want
                                    you to write all about the carpet business. I wrote to father to send my things by
                                    S. but he had started before he got it I want you to see to them and if Ira moves up
                                    in the spring you will be so good as to send them18 I want them
                                    to come in the order that I left them. Box them and I will pay for the
                                    transportation. 
                              
                                 16 "Madame Sunflower" is Betsey
                                            Worden, the second Mrs. Derrick Conine, but the origin of the nickname is
                                            not known.
                              
                                 17 Not until 1855 did prepayment of postage become
                                            compulsory. Before that time the general practice was to send letters
                                            "collect," with the addressee's paying the
                                            postage upon receipt. See Carl H. Scheele, A Short History of
                                                the Mail Service (
                                                Washington
                                            , 1970), 66, 76.
                              
                                 18 Ira was William Skinner's brother. U.S.,
                                            Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules for 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, 
                                                New York
                                             (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. T-6, roll 239),
                                            532. (This publication has been superseded by National Archives Microfilm
                                            Publication No. 432, under the same title, in which the population schedules
                                            for 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County are on rolls 616 and 617.) Ira Skinner moved to 
                                                Allen County
                                            , Indiana, about 1852. U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, population
                                            schedules for 
                                                Allen County
                                            , Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 653, roll
                                            243), 437.
                           
                                     You think or perhaps Mr S. was told that I am
                                    on the point of stepping off. Dont believe all you hear. Because I went out to
                                    Williams twice with a Mr D. they are sure it is to be a match19
                                    we were to have been married this fall according to the neighbours account but you
                                    see they have missed it. It is the rule in the district that every other teacher
                                    shall get married, it is my turn they say, but they will have to wait untill next
                                    spring now and perhaps longer. He lives in the district and took pty on me and took
                                    me out to Catharines when she was sick (thats all) I drempt of being at home last
                                    night and having a talk with madam & if I were there to night we would have
                                    a practical demonstration of it. Father must feel like the man when he looked out
                                    from under the bed and inquired for our Straw hat. My teliscopic vision extends
                                    through the distance which intervenes between us and I behold them seated by the
                                    fire just two of them, she will stay perhaps three months but not longer thare will
                                    be an other fracas by that time and perhaps father will sit alone. He will then have
                                    time to reflect on the step he has taken. You would ask what you had better do if
                                    she should leave again. I would not wish to advise you to do any thing wrong or any
                                    thing you would repent of but I could not advise you to go back. You wish me to
                                    write what you had better do I wish I could tell you. You have thought of coming out
                                    here I would not advise you to come. The country is new. You have no ide of a new
                                    country. You would not like to ride after horned horses but you might have to.20 Now and then a cariag glides by but not often The rodes are
                                    very poor or at least many of them. I prefer riding on horseback to any other way I
                                    can ride first rate now. I have overcome my cowardice but I will tel you a little
                                    more about our country and its accommodations our parlors serve the purpose [of]
                                    sitting room bed room and kitchen. The people are not as welthy but as friendly. My
                                    greatest complaint is the want of meetings. We dont have Mr Walace to preach us nor
                                    any other very smart preacher.21 We have preaching such as it is
                                        
                              
                                 19 Mr. D. was John Dorsey of Scipio Township. As Emily
                                            Conine's next letter shows, it was a match after all.
                              
                                 20 "Horned horses" were no doubt
                                            oxen.
                              
                                 21 John H. Wallace was a Methodist Episcopal preacher
                                            of "great ability and usefulness." B. T. Roberts, Why Another Sect? Containing a Review of Articles by Bishop
                                                Simpson and, Others on the Free Methodist Church (
                                                Rochester
                                            , N.Y., 1879), 307. He was of the old fashioned
                                            "holiness" 
                           
                                     and are thankful. As to your liking it I dont
                                    think you would, it costs about ten dollars to get Naturalized. You know the prosess
                                    perhaps but lest you do not I will tell you so here goes The first step is to have
                                    an attack of some of the fevers which are prevalent here, then comes the prosess of
                                    puke and physic and dose of wit[h] quinine: but you have not got through, yet you;
                                    keep still as long as you think you can and then begin to stir around then comes the
                                    tug of war. The Ague walks up and asserts his claims he shakes hands with you most
                                    lovingly and sticks as close as a brother by and by he begins to loosen his grast
                                    and with ghost like visage you walk about.22 You are ready to
                                    ask why I stay in such a place. I'll tell yo[u] I'se got nateralized I cannot praise this country now but it will vie with
                                    any of the states in a short time You can do as well and better there than here
                                    teaching. Mr Sweet offers you a home and you had better except it give my love to
                                    both uncle and aunt.23 I 
                              school of preaching, declaiming, as Derrick Conine stated, "the
                                            hole gospel with all … [his] mite[.]" Jane Conine to
                                            Mary Ann Conine 
                                                Seymour
                                            , with a postscript from Derrick Conine, February 13, 1854, Conine-
                                                Seymour
                                             Collection.
                              
                                 22 The ague (pronounced in formal English
                                            "aig-yoo" but in rural dialect "ag,"
                                            "egg," or "aguer") was a malarial fever
                                            prevalent in newly settled areas of the Old Northwest. The symptoms are
                                            graphically described in R. Carlyle Buley's Old
                                                Northwest. They included "yawnings and stretching, a
                                            feeling of lassitude, blueness of the fingernails, then little cold
                                            sensations which increased until the victim's teeth chattered in
                                            his jaws and he `felt like a harp with a thousand strings.' After
                                            an hour or so warmth returned, then came raging heat with racking head pains
                                            and aching back." The disease was recurrent; "it often
                                            came back in season for years, until a sort of immunity was
                                            established." Emily Conine's personification of the ague
                                            is similar to that of a Michigan pioneer quoted by Buley: "And
                                                on every day there, as sure as day would break,
                                            Their neighbor `Ager' came that way, inviting them to
                                                shake." Quotations are from H. Carlyle Buley, The
                                                    Old Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                                    Indianapolis
                                                , 1950), I, 244–45.
                              
                              
                                 23 Elizabeth 
                                                Seymour
                                             reported to her brother Silas that Mary Ann Conine did move in
                                            with "her Uncle" Sweet. Elizabeth 
                                                Seymour
                                             to Silas J. Seymour, November 12, 1849, Burmester,
                                            "Silas J. Seymour Letters (11)," 331. Which of the several
                                            families of Sweets in 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County provided Mary Ann a home cannot be definitely
                                            determined. However, letters to Mary Ann Conine between September 27, 1849,
                                            and February 2, 1850, were sent to the post office at La Grange, 
                                                Covington
                                             Township, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, rather than to Perry Center, Perry Township, where the
                                            Conines received their mail. Though no Sweets were found in the 1850 census
                                            for 
                                                Covington
                                             Township, Samuel Sweet, aged 66, and his wife Lydia lived in
                                            the northern part of Perry Township, just across the township line from La
                                            Grange. William Skinner's parents, who lived in the same
                                            neighborhood, picked up their mail at La Grange, and Samuel and Lydia Sweet
                                            may also have done so. Other Sweet families in Perry Township lived in or
                                            very near Perry village, and if Mary Ann had been staying with any of them
                                            her mail would probably have been addressed
                           
                                     have written to M. [Mary] Coleman and D.
                                    [Delia] Jeffres and have received no answer24 I would like to
                                    know whether or no they have received them I would like to have them write and others to give my respects to all inquiring friends. Mrs 
                                        Kent
                                     it seems is your friend.25 tell her to write to me
                                    rite away Tell her not to care for my writing first but to write. I need not tell
                                    you about the gals and boys out here for Mr S has told you I mean the little folks.
                                    Our folks have just as smart and good looking children as they can produce in the
                                    Empire state.26 But I must bring my epistle to a close for it is
                                    now after midnight. I have written all since 8 o'clock, so farewell for the
                                    present Write as soon as you receive this. I would like to have you ascertain if
                                    possable which letter offended father H's or mine. Dont fail to write about
                                    the carpet what has been done with it and whare you left it. I would like to know if
                                    my trunk has been overhauld.
                        E.D.C.27
                        
                        Well Jane its you and a little while is it. You have played truent
                                    have you? You and Mary must have felt neat stealing away from home at 10 `o clock at
                                    night and neater still when 
                              to the Perry post office. How the Sweets and the Conines were related is
                                            not known. See the addresses on the manuscript letters to Mary Ann Conine
                                            from Catharine Skinner, September 27, 1848 [1849]; Hatty [Harriet Pelton?],
                                            September 30, 1849; Mary M. Hitchcock, January 28, 1850; and Emily Conine,
                                            February 2, 1850, and the address on Catharine and William Skinner to Mr.
                                            and Mrs. Jonas Skinner, April 2, [1850], all in the Conine-
                                                Seymour
                                             Collection. See also the entries for Samuel Sweet, Jonas
                                            Skinner, Rufus Sweet, Martin Sweet, and 
                                                German
                                             Sweet, in U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, N.Y., 529, 532, 578, 579.
                              
                                 24 Mary Coleman and Delia Jeffres were two of the
                                            seven or eight closest friends of the Conine girls. Others of the group
                                            included Nancy and Lucy Willes, Harriet Pelton, Mary Hitchcock, and Mary W.
                                            C. Packard, all of whom are mentioned frequently in the letters which
                                            follow. Delia Jeffres was one of the numerous progeny of Thomas H. and
                                            Palmyra Jeffres of Perry Township. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, N.Y., 536. No Colemans were found in the 1850 census,
                                            but John and Julia Coleman, both aged 64, appear in the 1860 census for
                                            Perry Township. These may have been the parents of the younger Colemans
                                            mentioned in the Conine letters. See U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, population
                                            schedules for 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, 
                                                New York
                                             (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 653, roll 883),
                                            631.
                              
                                 25 This Mrs. Kent may have been Mary M. Kent, wife of
                                            Horatus 
                                                Kent
                                             of Perry Township. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, N.Y., 540.
                              
                                 26 The "Empire State" is the popular
                                            nickname for 
                                                New York
                                            .
                              
                                 27 Emily Conine's given name was Desire Emily
                                            Conine, but she preferred being called by her middle name and, as her
                                            letters show, always wrote it first. Ruth 
                                                Seymour
                                             Burmester to Donald E. Baker, March 1, 1973.
                           
                                     father rode up armed with his black whip to
                                    compel you to go home, and what for? why to wait upon his lady love! She come back
                                    to be a lady aye I'd like to wait on her a leetle I'd dee it up
                                    right you see. He walked you right straight home ha. she gets dinner ready and with
                                    one of those fiendish smiles which used to play upon her face asks you pertake of
                                    her hospitable meal You and Mary had got the work all done up for her had you
                                    I'd have my pay in some way for it it is too bad that you must go out to
                                    work. You had better learn the tailors trade this winter28 I
                                    would not think of doing housework for a living you can do better. I should think
                                    you might teach school by this time but if you cant[,] learn a trade you will not be
                                    sorry. You will be obliged to be very equinomical. If you should not dress quite so
                                    well for a year you can afterwards. I cant think father will see you suffer for the
                                    want of clothes. But strange things happen now a days, so I will not so suppose any
                                    thing about it. I would like to be thare a few days to chitchat with you and give
                                    you a little sage council, you would receive it in friendship I dout not for you
                                    know that I love you. Thare is no one who holds so prominant a place in my
                                    affections as dos thou. If you are obliged to work out be careful to work at good
                                    places. Never go to a tavern Be sure to keep good company, it is better to be a lone
                                    than in bad company. I hardly know what to say to you if I could see you We would
                                    fill up the spare time talking over matters Write, it has been a long time since I
                                    have seen a specimen of your penmanship, but I cannot think you have forgotton how
                                    so to prove your memory improve the first opportunity and let me know how you are
                                    getting along. I supose I am almost forgotton by the folks in Perry I gess I will
                                    tell you how I am dressing up this winter, dont be frightened I have got towo blue
                                    frocks for every day and am fixing my old worsted one over for nice thats not very
                                    extravagant is it not
                        
                                    Yours
                                    E. D. Conine
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  28 Jane Conine did work for a time as a seamstress, living with various
                        families for whom she made clothing. See her letter of November 30, 1851, which is printed
                        below.
            
            
            
               Hatty [Harriet Pelton?] to Mary Ann and Jane Conine
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Castile [
                                    New York
                                 ]29
                              
                           
                                    Sept 30th 49
                                
                        Oft remembered & much esteemed Friends & School-mates
                        With pleasure I take my pen to address those I would not forget & by whom I
                                    would not be forgotten. I did not forget the promise that I made to you the day that
                                    we parted but I was unable to perform it. I had been at home but a few days when I
                                    was blessed with one of Job's comforters upon my (back bone)30 it was about as large as a saucer & as painful a thing as you
                                    need ask for. It gathered and broke four times so you may guess how well I was
                                    prepared to return to my school for a week I was confined to my bed & when
                                    paw went after my things Nancy [Willes] sent me a note in which she stated that you
                                    had both left horn but she know not where you had gone from which I drew the
                                    conclusion that you must have left the place and therefore I did not write to you
                                    thinking that I should soon receive a letter from you to let me know where you were
                                    but no letter came. One week ago last friday I called at Mr Willises and after
                                    taking dinner Nancy & I called at Mr Jeffer's.31 Can you guess what were my feelings when I came where we have so often met
                                    & where I had parted with you four weeks before under such trying
                                    circumstances, but as I could not see you (for it was to late for me to think of
                                    comeing where you were as we did not get to Mr W— until two Oclock
                                    & were obliged to return the same night) I tried to content myself with
                                    hearing from you and was much pleased to learn that you were both still at
                                        Burkhill32 (or so near that I might
                                    perhaps see you again) & I resolved that I would write to you
                                    immediately but my 
                              
                                 29 Castile is a township in southeastern 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, directly south of Perry, and also a village within the
                                            township.
                              
                                 30 See the Book of Job, 2:7 ("King
                                            James" Version): "So went Satan forth from the presence of
                                            the Lord, and smote Job with sore boils … ."
                              
                                 31 Mr. Willes was Nancy Willes' father,
                                            Joshua Willes, of Perry. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, N.Y., 538. Mr. Jeffres would have been Thomas H.
                                            Jeffres, Delia Jeffres' father.
                              
                                 32 Burke Hill was the name of the Methodist meeting
                                            attended by the Conines, Jeffreses, Colemans, and others mentioned in the
                                            Conine family letters. The name applied as well to the area in the
                                            northwestern corner of Perry Township where the church was located. See
                                            Donald E. Poste, "Centennial of the First Free Methodist Church of
                                            Perry," Historical 
                                                    Wyoming
                                                , XIII (April, 1960), 91, and the map following the
                                            introductory note in Beers, History of 
                                                    Wyoming
                                                 County, N.Y.
                              
                           
                                     Sister was taken sick the next day &
                                    has not sit up a moment since. The Doctor was here this morning he said that he saw
                                    nothing now why she might not recover. I am now enjoying a good degree of health.
                                    Miss Luther is well and I believe thinks of returning to old Wyo this winter but has
                                    not yet decided. Burlingham & Walace are to return they are to hire their
                                    board at Mr Tarrys. Mr Elijah Walace started for the West a fortnight ago last
                                    tuesday. I beleive Tallman has not decided whether he will return or not. I have
                                    written all that I know respecting our old school-mates. The dysentery prevails to a
                                    considerable extent with us. In Ganesville there has been seven deaths the past week
                                    but I believe no one is [dead] with whom you are acquainted.33 I
                                    have spent one week with Grand-mother since I came home. I received a visit from two
                                    of my Cousins last week living in Eden34
                        
                        I went with them to visit the [
                                        Niagara Falls
                                    ] which were to them (as they never saw them before) very interesting.
                                    We went first across the bridge to the big-house or log-cabin which they told us was
                                    to be blown up in a short time for the canal is to pass where it stands.35 we next went to the Tunnel which although a work of art is
                                    indeed beautiful & has caused the sweat to drop from many an Irish-mans brow
                                    we went in so far that we could distinguish no object not even as the saying is see
                                    your hand before you and there we found it so muddy we were obliged to retreat after
                                    looking about there as long as we wished we recrossed the bridge & came
                                        
                              
                                 33
                                            
                                                Gainesville
                                             is a township of 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County adjoining Perry on the southwest, as well as a
                                            settlement within the township. J. Disturnell, pub., A
                                                Gazetteer of the State of New-York … (
                                                Albany
                                            , 1842), 176. 
                                                Gainesville
                                             was the birthplace of David Starr 
                                                Jordan
                                            , who was later president of Indiana University and then of 
                                                Stanford
                                             University. His autobiography includes a reminiscence of
                                            growing up in the small 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County town. See David Starr 
                                                Jordan
                                            , The Days of a Man: Being Memories of a
                                                Naturalist, Teacher and Minor Prophet of Democracy (2 vols.,
                                            Yonkers-on-Hudson, N.Y., 1922), I, 10–38.
                              
                                 34 By Eden, Hatty could have meant either a township
                                            in 
                                                Erie County
                                            , 
                                                New York
                                            , south of 
                                                Buffalo
                                            , or (perhaps more likely since in the next sentence she says
                                            her cousins had never seen 
                                                Niagara Falls
                                            ) a village in 
                                                Orange County
                                             in southeastern 
                                                New York
                                            . Disturnell, Gazetteer of the State of
                                            New-York, 151.
                              
                                 35 The canal to which Hatty refers has not been
                                            identified, nor has the tunnel which she mentions in the next line. However,
                                            the canal is not the Welland, which connects lakes 
                                                Erie
                                             and 
                                                Ontario
                                            , bypassing 
                                                Niagara Falls
                                            . The main channel of the original Welland Canal was completed
                                            in 1833, and its Port Maitland branch was finished in 1845. See Ralph
                                            Greenhill and Thomas D. Mahoney, Niagara (
                                                Toronto
                                            , 1969), 58, and Marjorie Freeman 
                                                Campbell
                                            , Niagara: Hinge of the Golden Arc (
                                                Toronto
                                            , 1958), 299.
                           
                                     where we might have a better view of the upper
                                    falls upon our way we saw an Irish-woman who was washing she had nothing on but a
                                    shimmy a skirt that came about down to her knees (for I am quite sure she had some)
                                    & a nightcap with a border about a finger wide; which some thought might
                                    better be put upon the bottom of her skirt, we next descended a short flight of
                                    stairs only a hundred & ninety in number and the water being very low we
                                    walked upon the rocks so near the falls that we were as wet by the spray as though
                                    we had been out through a shower.36 from here we took a boat and
                                    sailed up to the devils-hole who not being at home we made but a short stay.37 we then remounted the stairs and were glad to sit down to
                                    rest, but enough of this. I have been making great calculations on going to the fair
                                    where I hoped to meet you with many other friends but on account of sisters illness
                                    fear I shall be disappointed. I understand Mr Thurstain is to be there with his
                                    balloon on Wednesday I suppose you will be there then prepared to follow him with
                                    your eyes if not with your body.38 O Jane I forgot to tell you
                                    that I did not see John or the Frowns when I was out which I very much regreted.
                                    Often very often do I think of you and the happy hours we have spent together at
                                    "Wyo." & 
                              
                                 36 In 1845 an incline railway, operated by water
                                            power, was constructed to convey visitors from the heights of the city of 
                                                Niagara Falls
                                             down to the level of the river below the cataract. For those
                                            who preferred not to pay the fare, a stairway was also provided. If those
                                            were the stairs Hatty climbed, then she miscounted, for there were actually
                                            290 steps. See Greenhill and Mahoney, Niagara, 125, and
                                            George W. Holley, Niagara: Its History and Geology, Incidents
                                                and Poetry, with Illustrations (
                                                New York
                                            , 1872), 133.
                              
                                 37 Devil's Hole is "a frightful dell
                                            or gulf on the Niagara river, about 1½ miles below the
                                            falls." Disturnell, Gazetteer of the State of
                                                New-York, 143. An early 
                                                Niagara Falls
                                             guidebook describes it as "embracing about two acres
                                            cut laterally and perpendicularly in the rock by the side of the river, and
                                            about one hundred and fifty feet deep." It was reportedly called
                                            Devil's Hole after "the personage more frequently invoked
                                            in this region, formerly, than any other." Horatio A. Parsons, The Book of 
                                                    Niagara Falls
                                                
                                  (
                                                Buffalo
                                            , 1836), 71.
                              
                                 38 Thurstain may have been the same aeronaut described
                                            by Silas J. Seymour's sister Naomi, a seamstress in Perry village,
                                            the month previously: "I must now tell you that on Saturday last I
                                            saw a man go up in a Balloon and it was worth seeing indeed. It took him
                                            from 10 in the morning until 5 in the afternoon to fill it. I saw the whole
                                            operation which was quite interesting. He ascended about 1/2 mile in the air
                                            and sailed off about 2½ miles. He did not go as high as he would
                                            had not his Balloon broke and let the Gass escape. He was up about 8
                                            minutes. There were nearly 5000 people here to see him." Naomi 
                                                Seymour
                                             to Elizabeth 
                                                Seymour
                                            , August 19, 1849, [Ruth 
                                                Seymour
                                             Burmester, comp.], "Silas J. Seymour Letters
                                            (I)," Wisconsin Magazine of History, XXXII
                                            (December, 1948), 199.
                           
                                     at your then happy abode often does my mind run
                                    back to those hours when at the sound of the bell we entered the recitation room to
                                    receive instruction from our beloved teachers & also to the many many hours
                                    I have spent in your company the past summer it was there I went when I felt lonely
                                    or disconsolate & there I found those who were ever kind & ready to
                                    sympathize with, and comfort me Often have I gone there feeling that I had not a
                                    friend in the world and returned with feelings quite the reverse & can I
                                    ever forget these friends no no ever will I remember them with
                                    grateful heart Could I see you to night gladly would I dispense with sleep and spend
                                    the night in conversation. Glad indeed would I be to receive a
                                    visit from you this fall but if this is impossible write me a long letter write all
                                    about every thing fill such a sheet One friendly favor I ask of you that you will
                                    not expose my faults by letting any one see this & excuse all errors
                        
                                    From your affectionate friend
                                    Hatty
                                
                        Mary & Jane Conine)
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Mary M. Hitchcock to Mary Ann and Jane Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [postmarked Algonquin, 
                                    Illinois
                                 ]39
                              
                           
                                    January 28th 1850
                                
                        Absent Friends,
                        After a long absence and a long delay I have at last took time to answer your welcome
                                    letter which I receaved at Spencers arrival I thought then I should answer yours
                                    immediately but time failed me, and I have procrastinated it untill now and I do not
                                    know as it will be exceptable after so long a period but trusting you will excuse me
                                    I shall endevor to inform you of our healths & contentmemt since we came to
                                    this western country, we all enjoy a good degree 
                              
                                 39 Algonquin is in McHenry County, 
                                                Illinois
                                            . Mary Hitchcock, one of Mary Ann and Jane Conine's
                                            circle of special friends, had emigrated there from 
                                                New York
                                             with her parents Samuel and Clarissa Hitchcock and her brothers 
                                                Spencer
                                            , George, 
                                                Columbus
                                            , and Theodore. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules
                                            for McHenry County, 
                                                Illinois
                                             (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. T-6, roll 87),
                                            760. (In National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 432 the population
                                            schedules for McHenry County are on roll 117.) The Hitchcocks must have left 
                                                New York
                                             in May, 1849, because Mary states in this letter that they fell
                                            in with Silas and Elizabeth 
                                                Seymour
                                            , who left for Wisconsin at that time.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              MARY ANN CONINE
                                                SEYMOUR
                              
                           
                                    
                              SILAS J. SEYMOUR 1876
                           
                                    
                              DERRICK CONINE AND BETSEY WORDEN CONINE, HIS SECOND WIFE
                              
                           
                                     of health and are better contented here than we
                                    expected to be when we first came here the privileges are not as great here as they
                                    are in old countrys respecting schools there is no higher branches taught in the
                                    schools about here than Arithmetc Grammar Philosophy, but 12 miles from here, the
                                    county seat, there is a high school and at little fort 25 miles.
                        I intend to go to one of those places to school next winter providence permitting. I
                                    was home sick some after I came here there was no young people about here but what
                                    attended balls and I was as it were alone but now I can tell a better story about
                                    the people here, after we came here we had a class formed and there was but nine
                                    that joined and four of them were from our house we then drew circut preaching they
                                    came once a fortnight on Friday evening, and once a fortnight preaching on sabbath
                                    by a local preacher the first prayer meeting we had there was but three that
                                    attended They were appointed at private houses at first the next meeting there was a
                                    few more and they kept incresing and the interest of the meeting kept increasing and
                                    the wicked termed them private meetings we soon moved them to the schoolhouse and in
                                    the month of Nov a protracted meeting commenced40 and now we
                                    number on the class paper 35 and there is 5 or six that has not joined any where yet
                                    and there was one or two that joined the Babtist amongst the number was Robert,
                                    Jerom William Julius & George West January 19th & 20th there was
                                    about thirty of us that went about seven miles to a quarterly meeting and staid over
                                    night and a blessed good time had we.41 we have had full as good
                                    meetings here as we had there at the time of the revival Morris fell with the Power
                                    in one of our prayer meeting's and there has [been] others that have fell
                                    with the 
                              
                                 40 A protracted meeting, also called a revival, is a
                                            religious meeting or a series of meetings, the purpose of which is an
                                            awakening of religious belief in the participants. The characteristic mood
                                            of a "protract" is one of fervent evangelical enthusiasm.
                              
                                 41 In the Methodist Episcopal Church in the nineteenth
                                            century, quarterly meetings were conferences of the preachers, officials,
                                            and leaders of churches within a small geographical area. These conferences
                                            had general oversight of the "whole temporal and spiritual matters
                                            of the charge," including "missions, Sunday-schools,
                                            tracts, education, church extension, church records, parsonages, and
                                            furniture, church music, preachers' salaries," and
                                            disputes within local congregations. Matthew Simpson, ed., Cyclopedia of Methodism: Embracing Sketches of its Rise, Progress, and
                                                Present Condition, with Biographical Notices and Numerous
                                            Illustrations (
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1878), 739.
                           
                                     Power of God several times. I never enjoyed my
                                    self so well in my life as I have for the winter past I think I never felt more like
                                    going on, more lik running the whole length of the Christian race than at the
                                    present time when I realize how little I have done for my savior and how much he has
                                    done for me I feel that I can praise him as long as I live. I feel happy while I am
                                    writing, yes I'll praise my Maker while I've breath and when my
                                    voice is lost in death I expect to praise him in anobler & sweeter song than
                                        this.42 I hope that the next letter that I recieve from you
                                    will bring the news that you and Jane are a growing in grace and in the knowleg of
                                    the truth, for there may be such a thing as the farewell spoken the day we parted
                                    may be a long one but let us so live that we may strike hands on the other side of
                                    Jourden there to shout praises while eternity endure If never permitted to meet
                                    again on earth There are some that profes the blessing of perfect love here there is
                                    one old lady that enjoys it that I saw at the quarterly meeting she appears the most
                                    devoted of any person that I ever saw she came 15 miles on foot to get there after
                                    the Presiding elder closed his sermon she arose and gave an exertation that was
                                    almost equal to the sermon and the spirit attended the word and the voice of
                                    shouting filled the house I have often heard Father a wishing that your Fathers
                                    voice could be amongst us here he thought he would enjoy these meetings so well our
                                    people wish to be remembered to your father & mother and tell them to write
                                    to them, are you living at home now or are you obliged to seek a home somewhere else
                                    in order to live in peace when you wrote to me you were living at Mr Sweats but I
                                    did not know but what God had so orderd it that you had again been permitted to
                                    dwell at home I wish that you and 
                              
                                 42 This line is a paraphrase from a hymn written by
                                            Isaac Watts, arranged by John Wesley, and sung by Methodists of the
                                            midnineteenth century to the tune "Martin's
                                                Lane":
                                                "I'll praise my Maker while I've breath,
                                                And when my voice is lost in death,
                                                Praise shall employ my nobler powers;
                                                My days of praise shall ne'er be past,
                                                While life, and thought, and being last, Or immortality
                                                    endures."
                                            
                                            A Collection of Hymns, for the Use of the Methodist Episcopal
                                                Church, Principally from the Collection of the Rev. John Wesley,
                                            A.M. (
                                                New York
                                            , 1847), 231; John Julian, A Dictionary of
                                                Hymnology: Setting Forth the Origin and History of Christian Hymns of
                                                All Ages and Nations (
                                                London
                                            , 1908), 562.
                           
                                     Jane were here I should be glad to have you
                                    make it your home with us I should urge you and Jane to come up here & tach
                                    school if the wages were a little higher but they do not get but 10 & 12
                                    shillings a week.43
                                    
                                        Spencer
                                     has been teaching for a month past In our district the teacher that was
                                    hired here had to leave on account of ill health and S taught in his place. I have
                                    attended school some this winter and have had aplications for teaching but I did not
                                    want to teach untill next summer then I suppose I shall commence the Pedagogue Sway
                                    if nothing happens More than I know of now. I suppose you would lik to hear from
                                    your man we fell in company with Silas [
                                        Seymour
                                    ] and Elizabeth at 
                                        Buffalo
                                     and we had fine times you better believe44 E
                                    & myself bunked together all the way untill we got to 
                                        Milwaukee
                                     where we had to take our leave of then it seemed like parting with old
                                    friends I have received two letters from her since we came here she is now working
                                    at the millinary trade now She has been homesick some but since she had been at the
                                    village to work she had got acquainted with the young people and was more contented
                                    Silas is keeping Bachelors hall about 100 miles from her at Barraboo about 85 miles
                                    north west of where she was he has a farm of 165 acres she also added that she
                                    should like to go and see him mix his bread and wash his dishes and darn his
                                    stockings and so on though I suppose there is no use of my spending time to write to
                                    you about him for I suppose you have heard all this before and perhaps from his own
                                    hand writing you wished me to write all about the western world yet not about Mr
                                    West but by his request 
                              
                                 43 For many years the word shilling—like
                                            the word bit in the South and West—was used in 
                                                New York
                                             to denominate the value of 12 1/2 cents. This usage originated
                                            in the colonial period, when the Spanish real, one of
                                            several foreign coins commonly circulated, had been worth one shilling.
                                            After independence, when the 
                                                United States
                                             adopted a national currency, the real was
                                            valued at 12 1/2 cents, and New Yorkers continued to refer to that amount as
                                            a shilling long after the Spanish coins disappeared. See Neil Carothers, Fractional Money: A History of the Small Coins and Fractional
                                                Paper Currency of the 
                                                    United States
                                                
                                  (
                                                New York
                                            , 1930), 34–35.
                              
                                 44 Silas J. Seymour and his sister Elizabeth had
                                            started for Wisconsin from their home in 
                                                Covington
                                             Township, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, in May, 1849. They took the stagecoach to 
                                                Buffalo
                                             and then a Great Lakes vessel from there to 
                                                Milwaukee
                                            . Elizabeth remained with relatives in Aztalan, but Silas set
                                            out on foot from 
                                                Madison
                                             to locate a land claim. He selected a tract in the township of
                                            Dellona, Sauk County, not far from the Wisconsin Dells. Geo. A. Ogle
                                            & Co., pubs., Memorial and Biographical Record and
                                                Illustrated Compendium of Biography … of 
                                                    Columbia
                                                , Sauk and Adams Counties, 
                                                    Wisconsin
                                                 … (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1901), 235; Burmester, "Silas J. Seymour Letters
                                            (I)," 192.
                           
                                     I will mearly send his respects to you and
                                    Jane. My name is MARY HITCHCOCK yet and is
                                    like to be for any thing that I know I feel contented as yet to bear the old name
                                    this country has always been set out as one greate for young people getting married
                                    but I have not heard of so much of such buisness as at the east ther is Mr Sanford
                                    Almond Harris Maria Froun I do not think you eastern folks have any thing to brag of
                                    I was some what surprised to hear of Elizabeth Gardners getting married to that old
                                    Bach Jane dont you get married if you cant do better than that. Give Mr Jeffres
                                    people our respects and tell them we shall write to them soon we received a letter
                                    from them a short time ago but I thought I must write to you first as I have written
                                    to then Tell Nancy [Willes] and Mary Coleman to bear with me a littel longer and I
                                    shall get round to them after a while I have written 13 or 14 letters since I came
                                    here and I cannot get time to write as many as I would like to but tell them not to
                                    wate for me for if they were away from their old acquaintances in the far west I
                                    should not wait for them to write O how! I should like to have a good long talk with
                                    you & Jane Mary and Nancy I do not think there would much time run to waste.
                                    I have written this Just as fast as I could & have not stoped to get every
                                    word spelled right nor to use gramaticul Phrases but Just as I would talk therefore
                                    I hope all mistakes will be excused
                        
                                    Mary M Hitchcock
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Jane & Mary Ann Conine
                        Mother says tell her to write all the news about the old neighbors and to give her
                                    respects to Mrs Donalson and tell her we should like to have her write to us.45 Mary Ann does Ezra go to see Jane now46
                                    if he does not who does and who is it. now write a good lond letter write all you
                                    know & how you feel and what makes you feel so you do not know how 
                              
                                 45 Solomon Donaldson and his wife Jane, aged 57, lived
                                            next door to the Conines in Perry Township. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, N.Y., 543.
                              
                                 46 Ezra was Ezra H. Jeffres, son of Thomas H. Jeffres
                                            and brother of Delia Jeffres. He was twenty years old in 1850. U.S., Seventh
                                            Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, N.Y., 536. Jane Conine states in her letter of
                                            September 15, 1852, Conine-
                                                Seymour
                                             Collection, that she and "Ez" are
                                            "better friends" but that he is "sparking Em
                                            Patridge." The marriage of "Ezra J" and
                                            "Em P" is reported in Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine 
                                                Seymour
                                            , March 18, 1853, Conine-
                                                Seymour
                                             Collection. Ezra Jeffres, "pump maker," and
                                            his wife Emily were living in Perry village in 1860. U.S., Eighth Census,
                                            1860, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, N.Y., 677.
                           
                                     much good your letter did me Good Evening
                        Direct your letters to Barreville McHenry Co Ill.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Emily Conine to Mary Ann Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [postmarked Hicksville, 
                                    Ohio
                                 ]47
                              
                           
                                    Feb 2d 1850
                                
                        Dear sister
                        what was my joy this morning at the reception of your & Janes letters. I had
                                    long been looking for one. It is a pleasure to hear from you at all times. How sweet
                                    the tie that binds us death alone I hope will sever it. I[t] seems like an age since
                                    I have seen you I hope the time will not be as much longer as it has been. Sometimes
                                    I think of coming home in the spring and spending the summer but it is doubtful If
                                    not I shall come in the fall. I cannot wait longer than that unless it should be
                                    dangerous traveling. My health is good & has been since I was sick in the
                                    spring. I[t] was only the process of naturalization. I feel quite contented now. I
                                    am teaching in Scipio again this is my third quarter I have had 54 sholars this
                                    winter. I teach Algebra Philosophy & Phy[s]iology of the higher branches.
                                    One of my scholars has been through Days Algebra. As respects this school it is not
                                    much inferior to York state Schools. This is the best school I know of, but not the
                                    best house on the contrary it is only a rude pile of logs with a fireplace in one
                                    corner with very poor accommodations of every discription I board with the scholars,
                                    this you think is hard but you know nothing about this country! we have had a thaw
                                    about 2 weeks now or thaw & freeze then snow a little then rain. I am
                                    prepare with a pair of long led boots & a couple of blue frocks, you will
                                    think I am growing proud & I think so too. You would not have thought of
                                    getting a dress as I got these I am obliged to use economy; I made a fine shirt
                                    (which by the by I am quite an adept at) I got twuo pounds of wool rolls which I
                                    spun into yarn and sold for 18 shillings, wont you put it up? I have my worsted
                                    dress yet this is my winter dress, you will laugh but if stories are true I aught to
                                    be saving it is quite current here that the schoolmam is a going to take school for
                                    life: that may all be! but the neighbors are 
                              
                                 47 Hicksville is in Defiance County, 
                                                Ohio
                                            , across the state line from the Newville-Scipio area of 
                                                DeKalb
                                             and Allen counties, Indiana.
                           
                                     not quite so wise as they think they are;
                                    respecting the time certainly they labour under a mistake for they think it is in
                                    the spring. You wished to know the name the initial of which commenced with D. if
                                    that will be any satisfaction here you have it. Dorsey I dont
                                    think you will know him now, but dont let it make you [words missing] may some time
                                    for he taks of coming down, sometime he used to live in York.48
                                    You want to attend the wedding I wish you could but I fear you cannot, however get
                                    your fixins on about augus. I want you to get married when I come down. You say you
                                    are writing for your man to come from the west it must be you are thinking of [Silas
                                    J.] 
                                        Seymour
                                     (val-val, gals will do so; arent strong; they wont take Pauls advice49 they want to do better.[)] I wish you were coming here to
                                    live there is plenty of land here not taken up yet. It is as healthy a part of the
                                    country as there is and perhaps as pleasant the stage passes here every day, dont
                                    think it goes on all the roads for some of them are too bad, but my schoolhous is on
                                    a public road, we will soon have a post offie within a mile. We have preaching once
                                    is two weeks in a log meting house, not the best kind but we are glad of any. I wish
                                    I could hear Wallace once more. Write about him in your next. Whare is Miss Yurrel
                                    Fidelia Clark50 & Miss Howard. Give my love to Mrs
                                    Miller to Captans folks also to Peltons & Rudgers and all the rest of the
                                    good folks. If you see E. Graves tell her to write and I will answer it.51
                        
                        
                           
                              48 John Dorsey was born March 8, 1822, in Elloughton,
                                        Yorkshire, 
                                            England
                                        . His father Benjamin Dorsey was a wagonmaker and also,
                                        "being of a deeply religious nature," a local Methodist
                                        preacher. Benjamin emigrated to America in 1830, and his wife and seven children
                                        followed in the next year. After living for some time in 
                                            Erie County
                                        , 
                                            Ohio
                                        , the family had moved to Scipio Township, 
                                            Allen County
                                        , Indiana, by 1842. Benjamin Dorsey held the first religious meeting
                                        in the township, and his family, "prominent in the history of Scipio
                                        township," became "one of the most worthy in the
                                        county." John Dorsey married Emily Conine in 1850, perhaps
                                        "about August." He died March 9, 1881. Brant & Fuller,
                                            Valley of the Upper Maumee River, I, 382–83;
                                        U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                            Allen County
                                        , Ind., 413.
                           
                              49 "Paul's advice" is probably
                                        a reference to the words attributed to the bachelor apostle in I Corinthians
                                        7:8: "I say therefore to the unmarried and widows, It is good for them
                                        if they abide even as I." This recommendation is tempered somewhat in
                                        verse nine: "But if they cannot contain, let them marry: for it is
                                        better to marry than to burn."
                           
                              50 Emily Fidelia Clark was the youngest daughter of Joel
                                        and Anna Clark of Perry. She was born in 1823. Anna Clark Jones and Marjorie
                                        Abbott Phillips, "The Clark Family of 
                                            Covington
                                        , Perry, La Grange," Historical 
                                                Wyoming
                                            , VII (July, 1954), 119.
                           
                              51 Elizabeth Graves was a schoolmate of Mary Ann Conine at 
                                            Middlebury
                                        
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           HORACE CONINE
                           
                        
                        
                           EMILY CONINE DORSEY
                           
                        
                        
                           CLARINDA CONINE HOWARD
                           
                        
                        
                           JANE CONINE HAWKINS
                           
                        
                        
                        I have been at Horace' once this winter and also to Catharines, found them
                                    both well. Catharine has a little girl & think of calling it Emily. William
                                    is doing well. They find it hard beginning in the woods
                        Delias [Delia Jeffres'] letter I received and intended to have answered
                                    before now but have not had time I will do so soon I wrote to Mary Coleman but have
                                    not received an answer if you see her I would like to know whether or no she has
                                    received it if she has not I wish she would write without my writing again, tell her
                                    she has more time than I have.
                        Write all you think will be interesting in your next and dont let it be an age before
                                    either.
                        
                                    I remain your unworth siter
                                    Emily D Conine
                                
                        I would like to know how old grandfather was when he died, and what ailed
                                        him52 aunt must think more of herself than of her neighbors
                                    if she wishes to have all the property
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Catharine Conine Skinner and William Skinner to Mr. and Mrs. Jonas Skinner
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [postmarked Crystal Lake, Illinois
                           
                                    April 2] [1850]53
                           
                                
                        Dear mother
                        I thought I must write a few lines to you because that is all the way we have of
                                    conversing we are now in the pleasant Illinoy enjoying quite good health we had
                                    quite a tedious journey we were on the road twelve days I was about sick most of the
                                    way and having a babe to take care of it made 
                              Academy. She and her four sisters lived with Abijah and Philina Bainbridge
                                            of 
                                                Middlebury
                                             Township, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County. Mr. Bainbridge may have been their stepfather. U.S.,
                                            Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, N.Y., 474–75. The family set out overland
                                            for Oregon in 1853. Mary W. C. Packard to Mary Ann Conine 
                                                Seymour
                                            , May 25, 1853, Conine-
                                                Seymour
                                             Collection.
                              
                                 52 If it is to be presumed that
                                            "grandfather" died not long before this letter was
                                            written, then Emily Conine must be speaking of her grandfather Bates, the
                                            father of Abigail Bates Conine, about whose family little is known. Derrick
                                            Conine's father, also named Derrick, died in 1827. Ruth 
                                                Seymour
                                             Burmester to Donald E. Baker, January 19, 1973.
                              
                                 53 Crystal Lake is in McHenry County, 
                                                Illinois
                                            , near Algonquin, where Mary Hitchcock and her family lived. The
                                            letter can be dated by the Skinners' appearance in the 1850 census
                                            for 
                                                Brooklyn
                                             (later Nunda) Township, McHenry County. U.S., Seventh Census,
                                            1850, McHenry County, Ill., 695.
                           
                                     it rather hard for me but I am again keeping
                                    house and try to make it seem like home here I am not sorry that we left Indianna
                                    for it has relieved my mind of a burthen We here have meetings instead of hearing
                                    the hunters gun and the woo[d]mans ax on the sabbath how long we shall stay here I
                                    know not but I can say this much I am tiered of roving about I sometimes get down
                                    hearted and were it not for Williams kind treatment toward me I dont know but I
                                    should get completely discouraged although I think William has mad[e] a good trade
                                    but yet when I think I am far away from all my folks I fe[el] as thogh I could not
                                    endure the thoug[ht] but I find there is a friend that is near[er] than any earthly
                                    friends to whom I go for s[upp]ort and consolation remember me Dear mother at a
                                    t[hr]one of grace54
                        
                        
                                    Catharine Skinner
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        I got four hundred dollars for My land we started the 13 of feb we was twelve days on
                                    the road I paid 200 hundred dollars for my Wisconsin land and I traded it away for
                                    eighty acres of land thre quarter of a mile from [illegible] 20 acre of it is
                                    timbered the rest of it is perarie whitch is fence fifty of it is broke and i give
                                    three hondred dollars to boot two hundred this fall and 100 dollars in a year the
                                    place is worth 800 dollars55 a good well and spring on it I
                                    enjoy My self in religion we have preachen every week and we are trying to live holy
                                    Christians prove faithfull until we meet in heaven where we shall part no more Give
                                    My respect to father Conine and family
                        
                                    W. Skinner
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Emily Conine Dorsey to Mary Ann and Jane Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [postmarked Halls Corners, Indiana
                           
                                    Aug 23] [1851]56
                           
                                
                        
                           
                              54 The words in the previous two sentences are incomplete
                                        due to a tear in the manuscript.
                           
                              55 The census taker recorded the valuation of William
                                        Skinner's real estate as $500. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850,
                                        McHenry County, Ill., 695.
                           
                              56 The post office at Halls Corners, 
                                            Springfield
                                         Township, 
                                            Allen County
                                        , was established March 10, 1851. Brant & Fuller, Valley of the Upper Maumee River, I, 351; List and Index of
                                        Post Offices Established in Indiana from the Beginning to 1920 (Card File,
                                        Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        ). This letter, then, can be dated as 1851 since it was written
                                        after the post office came into existence but before Mary Ann Conine's
                                        marriage, which took place September 23, 1851.
                        
                        
                        Dear sisters
                        I received your very acceptable letter but a short time since. We are glad to hear of
                                    your good health. Jane says she would rathe deliver her message by the word of mouth
                                    so would I. it is much easyer talking than writing. I wish you were both here we
                                    would have a good chit-chat. I suppose Mary is thinking of something more important
                                    than writing57 is it so Mary ? you are very busy without doubt.
                                    I wish you were coming here to live, but no you cannot it seems, well we wish you
                                    good luck whare ever you go and hope you will not forget us. Since our return my
                                    health has been tolerable good58 I had 20 Ibs of wool to spin
                                    and shal finish in a few days I should have done so before now but John has been
                                    sick ever since our return, his teeth troubled him you know when we were at home
                                    they continued to grow worse until he got discouraged and tried to have it out but
                                    alas it broke off and a worse time ensued after suffering for twuo weeks after he
                                    went to the doctors and he succeded in getting out another piece and said it was all
                                    man could do for him it must get well afore it could be disturbed any more, he was
                                    so run down that we thought thare must be something more the matter but the Dr said
                                    it was caused by his teeth I never new any one who had such a dreadful time, from
                                    toothache but that was not all for since his teeth have stopped aching he has
                                    continued to grow poor so that you would hardly know him he has been a little better
                                    since takng nearly twuo bottles of Liver-wort and tar and also a bottle of home
                                    mad[e] stuff which he think is as good or better for him than the medicen he bought,
                                    you know I am half Dr my-self. He has had a very bad cough and raised a good deal I
                                    had my fears that he would soon fall a victim to the consumption59
                        
                        I hope my fears will not be realized. I have great faith that he may recover through
                                    the use of roots and such things I have reason to think so on account of his being
                                    so much better while taking it
                        We have done harvesting and haying, had the pleasantest harves I ever knew the heat
                                    has not been so excessively 
                              
                                 57 Mary Ann Conine was to be married to Silas J.
                                            Seymour the following month.
                              
                                 58 Other comments in this letter make it clear that
                                            John and Emily Dorsey had recently made a visit to 
                                                New York
                                            .
                              
                                 59 Consumption was the everyday name for
                                        tuberculosis.
                           
                                     warm as on some other seasons Wheat was good,
                                    hay very heavy
                        You wished to know how I got along with my quilting that is briefly told, none at
                                    all! we have but just got our things they were sent immediately for we arrived on
                                    Sunday and they on Thursday, but put in a little log ware house that he did not know
                                    was in the place The man who had them said he had sent word fifty times but we think
                                    not for we got the word as soon as it was sent. We began to think they were gone for
                                    we were to have word if the[y] came and had also sent to Teledo.60 I either left a quilt woolen sheet an pillo case at home or they have been
                                    taken out of the box I would like to know whether they are at home or not the quilt
                                    is the one with the middle of one kind and the border of an other and lined with an
                                    anatto [c]olored linen [s]heet.61 you cannot help knowing it if
                                    it is thare the pllow case you would know also for it is marked and has twuo rows of
                                    threads pulled out and worked the woolen sheet was one of the old ones I think I
                                    must have left them if so I want them taken care of for me. they may do me good some
                                    time. I want you to write as soon as you get this, postage is now but five cents so
                                    we can afford to write the oftener.62 Horace is not very well this summer he feels the effects of hard work. I have not been
                                    thare but once since we came home but he stayed here only a few night ago the rest
                                    are all well. I have only received one letter from Catharine but it is my fault
                                    perhaps for I thought I would wait as long before I answered hers as she did to
                                    write me. I shall write though immediately, would we not like to take a peep into
                                    her habitation and see how she looks and what a fine chunk of a girl little Emily
                                    is. But I must stop so good by a little while.
                        
                                    E. D. Dorsey
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  60 The Dorseys had probably shipped their goods from 
                            Buffalo
                         to 
                            Toledo
                         on a Great Lakes packet and thence up the Wabash and 
                            Erie
                         Canal to 
                            Allen County
                        .
               
                  61 Annato is a reddish yellow dye.
               
                  62 Postage had been ten cents on the sort of letters the Conine family
                        wrote—letters consisting of one sheet of writing sent "collect" a
                        distance of under 3,000 miles. At that rate, it had cost as much to send a one half ounce letter
                        from 
                            Detroit
                         to 
                            Buffalo
                        , for example, as it had to ship a barrel of flour the same distance. After June 30,
                        1851, the ten cent rate was lowered to five cents for "collect" letters and to
                        three cents if the postage were prepaid. See Scheele, Short History of the Mail
                            Service, 76.
            
            
            [In May, 1851, Silas J. Seymour wrote from Wisconsin to his sister Clarissa that he was planning a
                    short visit to 
                        Wyoming
                     County. "I am questioned almost every day about what I am going east
                    for," he wrote facetiously, "& I have now a Stereotyped
                        answer. That is: that I am going to bring up a CARGO of Old Maids. Now I want you to drum
                    up all you can, who wish to get good husbands and have them ready to embark
                    … ."63 Silas arranged that a neighbor, Hiram Pelton, take
                    care of his crops and had Hiram's wife make him a new coat, pants, and vest, for which he
                    paid her a total of $2.87.64 He then departed for 
                        New York
                    , where one "old maid," the twenty-four year old Mary Ann Conine, was
                    "ready to embark." Silas and Mary Ann were married on September 23, 1851, and were
                    back in Wisconsin by the end of October.65 The wedding, the journey west, and
                    Mary Ann's first year in Wisconsin were described by Mary Ann herself in a speech she read
                    on her fortieth wedding anniversary before a group of friends assembled in her home. Though the
                    speech was written in 1891, it is inserted here because most of the events it depicts occurred in
                    1851–1852.]
            
                    Mary Ann Conine 
                            Seymour
                        , "Reminiscences of Forty Years Ago" A Speech Given on the
                        Fortieth Anniversary of Her Wedding to Silas J. Seymour
                
            Kind friends & neighbors
            It is with the greatest pleasure that we welcome you to our home, on this the fortieth anniversary of
                    our wedding 
                  
                     63 Silas J. Seymour to Clarissa 
                                Seymour
                            , May 25, 1851, Conine-
                                Seymour
                             Collection. A large part of this letter is printed in [Ruth 
                                Seymour
                             Burmester, "Good Husbands in the West], Creative 
                                    Wisconsin
                                : A. Magazine for Writers and Readers, II (June, 1955),
                            37–41.
                  
                     64 Ruth 
                                Seymour
                             Burmester to Lorna Lutes Sylvester, December 13, 1972. Silas J.
                            Seymour's account book for this period is in Mrs. Burmester's possession.
                  
                     65 Ruth 
                                Seymour
                             Burmester to Donald E. Baker, March 1, November 8, 1973. The old handwritten
                            marriage certificate of the couple, signed by Thomas M. Hodgeman, Minister of the Gospel,
                            Perry Centre, 
                                New York
                            , is in Mrs. Burmester's possession. The secretary's book of
                            the Reedsburg, 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Old Settlers Association, which records that Mary Ann Conine 
                                Seymour
                             settled at Dellona on October 20, 1851, is at the Reedsburg Public Library. The
                            Old Settlers Association was founded in 1876. Silas J. Seymour served as its president in
                            1887 and 1896, Silas' son Merton was president in 1913, and Merton's
                            daughter Ruth 
                                Seymour
                             Burmester was president in 1973. Ruth 
                                Seymour
                             Burmester to Donald E. Baker, August 31, 1973.
               
                    
                    Forty years & yet it seems but a little while since we clasped hands
                    & promised to travel life's journey, together. A Presbyterian clergiman performed
                    the ceremony, & I think he must have done it well, as it has never seemed necessary to have
                    it repeated. We were a little bashful like some of the young people in this country, so were married
                    quietly at home, & on our return from a short bridal trip, held a reception for our friends.
                    Two weeks from the time we were married, I bade adieu to home & friends, & started
                    with my husband for his home in the far west. Little can the young people, who marry &
                    settle near their old home, realize how hard it is to sever the ties that bind us to home &
                    kindred & seek a new home in a land of strangers66
            
            We had a very pleasant trip, by water, from 
                        Buffalo
                     to 
                        Milwaukee
                    . Here we found a neighbor of my husband, waiting to take us & our goods to that
                        place67 I never felt like going into ecstacies over that part of our
                    journey. It was made in a lumber wagon, with a high spring seat, on which I sat with the driver,
                    while my husband sat wherever he could find a place The owner of this conveyance, made several
                    purchases in 
                        Milwaukee
                    , among them a barrel of salt, which he placed under the seat. On the way we were
                    obliged to pass over several Corduroy bridges. These were made of logs, from a foot to a foot
                    & a half through over which no earth had been placed, & every time we passed over
                    one of these logs our seat came down solid on this barrel of salt. I really envied my husband the
                    comfort he took on these occasions, for he walked We were five days coming from 
                        Milwaukee
                     How well I remember the first view I had of my new home which was from the top of the
                    hill east of here. It was a small log house about 16 feet square, consisting of twoo rooms one above
                    the other But it was home, & with it I tried to be content I sometimes
                    smile to myself when I 
                  
                     66 Mary Ann Conine 
                                Seymour
                             is said to have "experienced great loneliness in 
                                Wisconsin
                            . When homesickness for York State overwhelmed her, she would go off into the
                            woods—not wishing Silas to hear her—and cry to her heart's
                            content." [Ruth 
                                Seymour
                             Burmester, comp.], "Silaa J. Seymour Letters (III)," Wisconsin Magazine of History, XXXII (June, 1949), 469n–470n.
                  
                     67 The goods Mary Ann Conine 
                                Seymour
                             took to Wisconsin from New-York included "her sea-shell quilt, the
                            blue and white wool coverlet, plum and cherry stones and piney [that is, peony] roots, dried
                            apples and calico, candle mold, spinning wheel and Abigail Bates' cradle."
                            Burmester, "Good Husbands in the West," 39.
               
                     hear young married women now days who seemingly have every
                    thing comfortable about them, telling of hard times, & having to scrimp, & wonder
                    how they would like to get along as I did the first winter I was here We arrived home on Sunday
                    & the next day I, of course, must wash. For a tub I had an iron kettle which held a pail
                    & a half of water, & for a wash board, & wringer, I had my hands. This was a
                    rather trying exercise at first My husband advised me not to bring any chairs with me as a man in
                    Reedsburg, who owed him had promised to make him some.68 They were not done when
                    we came, & were not till the next spring. In the meantime we sat on wooden benches which he
                    had made. We had two, one for ourselves, & one for company. I was really at a loss what to
                    say when any one came in, as I had no chair to offer, but finally concluded to say, take a seat.
                    Besides these we had a home made lounge, which had a cushion filled with straw, it being more plenty than feathers69 It was a happy day when the chairs
                    came, but they soon fell to pieces & had to be naild together. We bought a cow which gave
                    about two qts of milk at a time, &, as we drank neither tea nor coffee, I strained it into
                    an earthen churn & once a week I churned, getting about 3/4 of a Ib of butter This was not
                    for every day use but for Sunday's & company There had been raised on the place
                    that summer sone very fine Pumpkins These I cooked very nice & dry & we used them on
                    our bread for butter Our neighbors did the same, so we were in style We brought with us three
                    bushels of dried apples [,] one, of swe[e]t, & two of sour. When the Pumpkin butter was
                    gone, I cooked the apples mixing them, so that one kind, would season the other This was Apple butter. We brought from 
                        Milwaukee
                     as we came ten Ibs sugar & one of tea This lasted us till spring Then things began to improve. We made butter enough so as to have it on the table three
                    times a day, & some 
                  
                     68 Reedsburg, in the township adjacent to and southwest of Dellona,
                            was the nearest village to the 
                                Seymour
                             homestead.
                  
                     69 In a revision of this speech given later at a meeting of the
                            Reedsburg Old Settlers Association, Mary Ann Conine 
                                Seymour
                             added in speaking of the homemade lounge: "Our beds were made of
                            popple [that is, poplar] poles & the springs of basswood bark." The
                            Reedsburg, 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Free Press, February 18, 1892, noted Mary Ann's
                            presentation at the Old Settlers meeting and commented: "She thinks some of the
                            young housekeepers of the present day would hardly like to commence with the same furniture
                            she had." Ruth 
                                Seymour
                             Bunnester to Donald E. Baker, March 1, August 31, November 8, 1973.
               
                     to spare70 When I had been here about two
                    weeks, my husband thought it was time I saw Reedsburg. He had a yoke of oxen, but no wagon so he
                    drove the oxen & we walked a mile & three quarters. Then he borrowed a wagon,
                    hitched on the oxen, &, with a rough board across the box for a seat, we rode the rest of
                    the way After getting fairly started, I smild audibly at the thought of what our friends at the east
                    would say, could they see us taking our first pleasure ride in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . The only woman I remember seeing in Reedsburg that day is now Mrs Bryden of Ironton71
            
            Reedsburg then was a very small affair for a village it contained a grist mill, saw mill two stores a
                    grocery blacksmith shop school house & a few dwelling houses The grist mill & saw
                    mill were a great blessing to the inhabitants of the surrounding country The first winter I was here
                    ny husband cut & drew some bass wood logs to the saw mill, had them sawed on shares
                    & in the spring put up an addition to our house, for a bedroom & pantry His tools to
                    make this with, consisted of a jackknife spoke shave, & hammer. With his jackknife he cut
                    the boards, with the spoke shave did what planing there was done, which was but very little,
                    & finished with the hammer AS shingles cost money, of which we had but very little, he
                    shingled it with boards This did very well till they got thoroughly seasoned. Then, when it rained,
                    we had to move out. But such things did not last always. In time we had a better roof Little by
                    little we gathered the comforts of life about us & prized them more highly, I think, having
                    earned them ourselves I think I never enjoyed any summer of life better than the first one I spent
                    here In the spring my husband succeeded in buying 
                  
                     70
                            
                                Seymour
                             family tradition relates that Derrick Conine sent his daughter on her way to
                            her new husband's home in the West with the admonition that she "eat a
                            good meal before she left, for there would be times in her `shanty' in Wisconsin
                            when she would remember it." Ruth 
                                Seymour
                             Burmester to Lorna Lutes Sylvester, December 13, 1972. This advice seems to
                            have been well founded, for Mrs. Burmester writes: "I have heard my father [Merton 
                                Seymour
                            ] tell many times of how his father [Silas] came to hate flat turnips, and never
                            wanted to see or taste that vegetable again, having subsisted largely on them that one
                            winter when he and Mary Ann were saving their few potatoes for next year's
                            `seed.' Another thing told me was that the roving Winnebagoes would come along in
                            the summer or early fall, pull up the potatoes, eat them, and stick the stalk nicely back in
                            the ground again, as though nothing had ever happened." Ruth 
                                Seymour
                             Burmester to Donald E. Baker, March 1, 1973.
                  
                     71 Ironton is another village in Sauk County.
               
                     a second hand wagon Then we could take our pleasure trips
                    around the country without borrowing Every thing was new & interesting to me From the time
                    the frost was out of the ground in the spring, till long after frost came in the fall, there was an
                    almost endless profusion of wife? flowers The unbroken prairie was natures flower garden Every few
                    days some new flower would blossom I was passionately fond of flowers & could never gather
                    enough Year by year they are getting more scarce. Like the Indians & deers, with which this
                    country was plentifully supplied when I came here, they will soon be, a thing of the past. As the
                    years passed by, five precious treasures, were committed to our care. Blessings dearly prized, Two
                    of whom have long long since gone to their eternal home72 So, into our life,
                    there has come joy, & sorrow. And though our home can never again be what it was when the
                    dear ones were all with us, still, it is our home, our home for forty years
                    & to it, you are all very, very welcome, to night.
            
                    Jane Conine to Silas and Mary Ann Conine 
                            Seymour
                        
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Perry N Y
                           
                                    Nov. 30 1851
                                
                        Dear brother and sister
                        With pleasure I improve the present opportunity of 
                              
                                 72 Silas and Mary Ann 
                                                Seymour
                                            's five children were Ellen Augusta, born in 1852; Ida
                                            Jane, born in 1855; Merton Eugene, born in 1858; Walter Frederick, born in
                                            1862; and Arthur Romeyn, born in 1872. All of these children, in the words
                                            of a history of Sauk County, 
                                                Wisconsin
                                            , "enjoyed exceptional educational
                                            advantages." Ida died in 1876. Ellen was a teacher for several
                                            years before her death in 1880. Ogle, Memorial and Biographical
                                                Record … of 
                                                    Columbia
                                                , Sauk and Adams Counties, 235. Walter 
                                                Seymour
                                             was a graduate of the University of Wisconsin and of the
                                            medical school of Northwestern University. He served for many years as a
                                            medical missionary to 
                                                China
                                            , where he was killed in 1928 during the civil war, 
                                                Chicago
                                             Tribune, April 26, 1928, pp. 9, 38. Arthur 
                                                Seymour
                                             received a Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin and taught at
                                            the University of Illinois and at Florida State College for Women before
                                            becoming Professor of Modern Languages at Florida State University in 1947.
                                            In 1920–1921 he served as an advisor to the minister of education
                                            in Honan, 
                                                China
                                            . Jacques Cattell, Directory of American Scholars:
                                                A Biographical Directory (
                                                Lancaster
                                            , Pa., 1951), 845. Arthur 
                                                Seymour
                                             died in 1955. After completing the Agricultural Short Course at
                                            the University of Wisconsin in 1887, Merton 
                                                Seymour
                                             returned to the family farm, the management of which he assumed
                                            on his father's retirement. He was the father of Ruth 
                                                Seymour
                                             Burmester, who contributed the Conine family letters for
                                            publication. Ruth 
                                                Seymour
                                             Burmester to Donald E. Baker, March 1, September 17,
                                        1973.
                           
                                     writing my first letter to you and this is the
                                    first opportunity I have had. It is now half past three (Sunday[)] and I have
                                    attended church all day. I am now seated in Dr Howard's parlor, with a few
                                    of my old friend's around me73 I have been here two
                                    weeks and intend to remain until Saturday I came to make a coat for their son and
                                    Farmer was determind I should stay and work for him and have promissed until
                                        S—–74 they would like to have me stay
                                    all winter but I do not intend to I work by the job and hire my bord I pay 10s per
                                    week last week I cleard 15s I have not seen nor heard from home since I came down
                                    Father and I wer intending to write last week if I had been at home but I did not
                                    happen to be thare, so I determind not to wait but write now. Oh Mary I [have] so
                                    many things to write that I hardly know what to write first But probibly you will
                                    not be particular providing I get them all down First then what happened at home
                                    immediately after your departure you can imagin better than I can describe my
                                    feelings after you left us[:]
                        
                                    "One day a go, I sat with thee" In home's own sweet,
                                        domestic bower When love's bright bird e'er carolled free, And
                                        sadness weighed each passing hour.
                                    I sat with thee in love and prid[e] The breath of flowers upoun my brow You was a
                                        beloved and happy bride;— Now I am alone and where art thou
                                    Tis even thus I cannot stay In this dim sphere with out thy smile Oh, Father
                                        hasten me away From sorrow's dart from pleasure's wile.
                                
                        
                           
                              73 Jonathan Howard, physician, his wife Hannah, and their
                                        three children appear in the 1850 census for Perry village. U.S., Seventh
                                        Census, 1850, 
                                            Wyoming
                                         County, N.Y., 567.
                           
                              74 James Farmer, whose occupation was recorded as
                                        "sailor," lived in Perry village with his wife Martha. Ibid., 556.
                        
                        
                        But I must not longer delay for I suppose you are anxious to hear how our mar is
                                    getting along that week after you went away she gave me a regular blessing,
                                    commensing at the book of Genesis and expounding through she was mad because I had
                                    been away so much you know we made so many visits last summer. I could have booted
                                    her with a good stomach and feeling so I just told her [I] could not get along with
                                    finding so much fult I should just pull up stakes well said she if you go I shall
                                    and Father told her she could act her own pleasure about it but if she went she
                                    would stay and so she cooled down, but she has had two or three times at it since. I
                                    have been and made a visit to J—Wordens75 had a verry
                                    good time and learned some things about mar that I must not write now for I lack
                                    time L— Buckhout's man did not come76 I have
                                    got some acquainted with a brother of his called smarter than he J— and
                                    R— Worden are both keeping company I stayed over Sunday and R—
                                    beau came that night he is called quite a fine fellow Delia Jeffres has gon to Ohio
                                    to teach with her uncle. she intends to stay one year I have not been to see Naomi
                                    but you have probibly heard the news from themselves but for fear you have not I
                                    must tell you they have a prommissing little son77 I inteng to
                                    see it before long A— Crouch is not marrid yet78 It
                                    is so noisy and so dark that I shall be obliged to stop I shall write a good long
                                    letter soon 
                              
                                 75 J. Worden, and R. Worden mentioned below, were
                                            probably nieces of Betsey Worden Conine.
                              
                                 76 Lydia Buckhout was a daughter of Phillip and Mary
                                            Worden Buckhout. Betsey Worden Conine was her aunt, and Horace
                                            Conine's wife Mary was her sister. Ruth 
                                                Seymour
                                             Burmester to Donald E. Baker, February 12, 1973.
                              
                                 77 In 1850, Silas J. Seymour's sister Naomi
                                            had married Charles Morgan, storekeeper and postmaster at La Grange, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County. They moved to 
                                    Madison, Wisconsin
                                 , in 1854. Ruth Burmester,
                                            "Silas J. Seymour Letters (I)," 197n; "Silas J.
                                            Seymour Letters (III)," 469n.
                              
                                 78 Asenith Crouch was a daughter of Hiram and Ann
                                            Crouch of Perry. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming
                                             County, N.Y., 541. According to Elizabeth 
                                                Seymour
                                            , during the time of trouble in the Conine household, when Mary
                                            Ann moved in with the Sweets, Jane Conine took up residence "at Mr.
                                            Crouches." Elizabeth 
                                                Seymour
                                             to Silas J. Seymour, November 12, 1849, Burmester,
                                            "Silas J. Seymour Letters (II)," 331. Hiram may have been
                                            that Mr. Crouch. Asenith Crouch is mentioned again in Jane Conine to Mary
                                            Ann Conine 
                                                Seymour
                                            , February 13, 1854, Conine-
                                                Seymour
                                             Collection, in which Jane comments that "Asenith is
                                            not well & it is supposed has the Consumption." Asenith
                                            died of that disease in April, 1854. See Naomi Morgan's postscript
                                            in Susan 
                                                Seymour
                                             to Silas and Mary Ann Conine 
                                                Seymour
                                            , April 17, 1854, Burmester, "Silas J. Seymour Letters
                                            (III)," 471.
                           
                                     but you must [not] wait for me do write and not
                                    wait you have a better chance than I have at present Mary I am ashamed to send such
                                    a letter to you but the next shall be well filled
                        I have not time to correct my letter so you must not examine it verry closely P.s we
                                    received your's in du time
                        
                                    E Jane Conine79
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  79 "E" was more likely Jane's middle initial
                        than her first. She signed herself "Jane E." in her letter to Mary Ann, May
                        29, 1858, Conine-
                            Seymour
                         Collection; and Silas J. Seymour, as executor of Derrick Conine's estate
                        in 1882, recorded her name the same way. Ruth 
                            Seymour
                         Burmester to Donald E. Baker, March 1, 1973.
            
            
               SEYMOUR HOMESTEAD, SAUK COUNTY, WISCONSIN
               
               This house, erected by Silas and Mary Ann Conine 
                            Seymour
                         in 1857, was occupied by members of the 
                            Seymour
                         family for nearly a century.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               A History of the Middle West: From the Beginning to 1970. By Kenneth R. Walker. (
                        Little Rock
                    : Pioneer Press, 1972. Pp. xvii, 533. Notes, illustrations, selected bibliography,
                    index. $9.95.)
            This pioneer volume attempts to provide a brief yet comprehensive general history of the American
                    Midwest. Geographically it covers the area sometimes known as the North Central States, twelve
                    states from the 
                        Kansas
                    -Dakota tier east to 
                        Ohio
                    . Chronologically the scope extends from the ice age to 1970. More than a score of
                    topics are given special extended treatment. The book contains sixty-nine consecutively numbered
                    chapters which are organized into six major parts. Each chapter is further subdivided into
                    separately captioned sections. The first part (pp. 3–68) provides a general setting and a
                    narrative of European exploration and other events from the sixteenth century to 1800. Part VI (pp.
                    481–94) is a summary account of the Middle West since 1940. The four central parts, which
                    comprise the major portion of the book, take up "The Young Middle West"
                    (1801–1841), "The Disruptive Period" (1841–1877),
                    "The Middle West Comes of Age" (1864–1900), and
                    "Progressivism, Conservatism, and Pragmatism" (1900-194). They are structured
                    symmetrically and are of approximately equal length. Each, in general, provides a chapter or more on
                    the admission of states, political issues, and political personalities, and a dozen or so separate
                    chapters on settlement, agriculture, transportation, mining and manufacturing, labor, religion,
                    education, social and cultural life, and other topics. Emphasis is broadly distributed, with
                    politics, war and foreign affairs, and transportation receiving perhaps the greatest attenton.
                    Special features include eighty-two illustrations (seventy of them are portraits), a classified
                    bibliography of about 1,200 items, and an index. There are no tables, charts, maps, or graphs.
            As a pioneering effort to bring together a vast amount of material into very limited space the book
                    deserves high praise. The style is clear, simple, and direct. Several dozen errors  are apparently all quite trivial, although the transposition of type on
                    pages ninety and ninety-one is annoying. No explicit attempt is made to advocate any special
                    interpretation or hypothesis, and there are no sweeping spiritual or psychological generalizations.
                    The book is comparable neither to Graham Hutton's Midwest at Noon, John
                    J. Murray's Heritage of the Middle West, Horace Merrill's Bourbon Democracy of the Middle West, nor Russel Nye's Midwestern Progressive Politics; it resembles to a slight extent the major works of
                    Beverly W. Bond, Jr., R. Carlyle Buley, and Henry C. Hubbart, which covered much of the subject from
                    1788 to 1880.
            
               A History of the Middle West seems most admirably designed as a college level
                    textbook. The reviewer expects to try it out for that purpose during the coming year.
            
               Ohio University, 
                            Athens
                        
                Harry R. Stevens
         
         
            
               The Winter Soldiers. By Richard M. Ketchum. The Crossroads of World
                        History Series. Edited by Orville Prescott. (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1973. Pp. 435. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $10.00.)
            Richard M. Ketchum is an author and a senior editor with the American Heritage Publishing Company. Of
                    the several books written and edited by him, The Battle for Bunker Hill and The
                    American Heritage Book of the Revolution illustrate his keen interest in and wide knowledge of the
                    American Revolution. In The Winter Soldiers he has attempted to demonstrate how
                    significant to the final outcome of the War for Independence was the early period from April 19,
                    1775, to January 3, 1777. Although The Winter Soldiers "is not intended
                    as a book for scholars" and although footnotes are omitted, Ketchum's narrative is
                    "based upon contemporary evidence" (p. 400). A close examination of the
                    bibliography and notes for each chapter reveals that the author has investigated most of the printed
                    sources and secondary works which cover the years encompassed by this book.
            Chronologically, the story extends from the battles of 
                        Lexington
                     and 
                        Concord
                     to those of Trenton and 
                        Princeton
                    
                     with occasional flashbacks to events occurring earlier whenever
                    clarification is necessary. This time span naturally entails and highlights the following: the
                    meeting of the Second Continental Congress, the fighting at Bunker Hill (actually, Breed's
                    Hill), the events in and around 
                        Boston
                    , the Declaration of Independence, the battles of Long Island and White Plains, and the
                    Staten Island Peace Conference. It also includes the British capture of Fort 
                        Washington
                    , the abandonment of Fort Lee to the enemy, and General George 
                        Washington
                    's retreat through 
                        New Jersey
                     and across the Delaware River into 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The crisis confronting 
                        Washington
                     and his ragged, poorly equipped army is emphasized. The book reaches its climax with 
                        Washington
                    's victories at Trenton and 
                        Princeton
                    .
            When one evaluates this book in the terms of its own genre, it admirably fulfills the purpose for
                    which it was written. The history buff can profit and, at the same time, enjoy the wealth of
                    information presented. A specialist, whose research of the period has extended over two or three
                    decades and whose prose has become pedantic, will not find any startling new facts; however, he will
                    read a clean, crisp style of writing which, too often, eludes the writers of history. Ketchum shows
                    good insight on the British problems of shipping supplies, enlisting soldiers, and handling camp
                    followers. His descriptive cameos of the leading personalities are excellent; for example, he
                    describes Lord North as being "round-shouldered, corpulent, with a bloated, sleepy, piglike
                    face, and an oversize tongue which thickened his speech" (p. 63).
            The author should have stated his thesis before page 396. Although somewhat tenuous, it is that
                    "without [the victories at] Trenton and 
                        Princeton
                     there would have been no army to fight at Saratoga and Yorktown" and therefore
                    "the campaign 
                        Washington
                     had just won was the decisive one of the war." 
                        Washington
                     accomplished "something that had to be done or the cause of independence was
                    lost irretrievably."
            This is a handsome book, relatively free of typographical errors. The maps and illustrations are
                    exceedingly helpful. Those who enjoy well written history will not be disappointed by The Winter Soldiers.
            
            
               Indiana University Southeast, New 
                            Albany
                        
                Gerald O. Haffner
         
         
         
            
               Invisible Immigrants: The Adaptation of English and Scottish Immigrants in
                        Nineteenth-Century America. By Charlotte Erickson. (Coral Gables: University of Miami
                    Press, 1972. Pp. vi, 531. Maps, notes, illustrations, index. $17.50.)
            More than two million Englishmen and Scotsmen entered the 
                        United States
                     practically unnoticed in the nineteenth century. Their similarity to the bulk of
                    Americans rendered them virtually invisible. Standard immigration texts and most of the recent works
                    on immigrant groups neglect them. No study has searched so deeply into the effects of emigration
                    upon these migrants or questioned so effectively the assumption that they were assimilated rapidly
                    and easily into American culture as this volume by Charlotte Erickson.
            Dr. Erickson, a recognized historian of British emigration, presents twenty-five short collections of
                    previously unpublished, nineteenth century Scottish and English emigrant letters. Each minimally
                    edited, thoroughly annotated collection is preceded by a biographical history of the family
                    involved. Unlike the more literate, upper class letters and memoirs which have appeared elsewhere,
                    these represent the aspirations and attitudes of former farmers, handicraftsmen, small traders, and
                    common laborers. Erickson's analysis, based upon these and other emigrant letters, portrays
                    a people who adapted to American society but disdained assimilation. Their language and religion
                    made them compatible with most of their American neighbors but denied them the shields against
                    association which other immigrants possessed. They seldom faced discrimination by nativists or
                    racists, yet, when possible, chose to segregate themselves among fellow countrymen. Early Scottish
                    and English immigrant farmers remained aloof, thinking themselves superior to Yankees. Many joined
                    colonies ("rural ghettos"), as at Albion, 
                        Illinois
                    , and Saundersville, Indiana. Those in farming and industry made American friends slowly
                    and married Americans only as a last resort. They participated little in politics and often waited
                    long to seek naturalization.
            By organizing the collections of letters into three categories representing the American occupations
                    of the writers—agriculture, industry, and business and the
                    professions—Erickson compares and contrasts the emigrants' motives  for leaving Britain, their distribution in the 
                        United States
                    , and their socal, economic, political, and psychological adjustments. Her well
                    documented introductions to each categorical grouping both support and challenge older
                    interpretations. First, she argues that the opportunities of farming in America "served as
                    a safety valve for urban and industrial workers in 
                        England
                    " (p. 62), but she does not allay the doubts that have undermined the parallel
                    concept that the availability of western land effectively relieved urban, industrial tension in
                    America itself. Second, she asserts that "Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner's schematic model of successive waves of specialized settlers, from
                    pioneer to capitalist farmer, is wrong. The letter-writers were not mainly fillers-in." On
                    the contrary, most of them "spent years clearing and bringing land into cultivation for the
                    first time" (pp. 45–46). Third, she maintains that private emigrant letters
                    rather than the often touted advertisements of community founders, companies, and speculators were
                    the chief stimulant to English and Scottish emigration.
            The central problem of this book, as of all such works in the social sciences, is the degree to which
                    small samples truly characterize the whole. Critically aware of this and of the pitfalls of using
                    emigrant letters as a source, Erickson prefers to call her sample of fifty-three letter writers
                    "historical cases, whether typical or not" (p. 6). Since her conclusions are based
                    upon a scant percentage of all Scottish and English immigrants, one hopes others will extend her
                    pioneering explorations, especially in American repositories, and reveal more about these invisible
                    immigrants.
            
               Indiana State University, 
                            Evansville
                        
                Donald E. Pitzer
         
         
            
               Immigrants, Baptists, and the Protestant Mind in America. By Lawrence B. Davis. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1973. Pp. 230. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $8.95.)
            "North America for Christ" seems to have been the theme song of Northern Baptists
                    from the founding of the American Baptist Home Mission Society in 1832 to the enactment of the
                    National Origins Act in 1924. Throughout this period Baptists were faced with the problem of the
                    immigrant—was he to be ignored or cultivated? Davis discusses  this question in all of its ramifications, particularly as it applies
                    to Northern Baptists but generally as reflected in the attitudes of other denominations, which he
                    calls the Protestant Mind.
            Beginning with a good succinct statement of Baptist belief and polity, the author briefly traces the
                    early history of Northern Baptists through their initial attempts to evangelize the frontier and the
                    split over the slavery issue in 1845, which caused the creation of the Southern Baptist Convention.
                    The latter is omitted in this study, as are other Baptist sects.
            On the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the American Baptist Home Mission Society in 1882
                    Northern Baptists were faced with a new concern—immigration. The Chinese Exclusion Act
                    which had become law that year prohibited the entrance of Chinese workers for ten years. This
                    national policy was continued in the following years. Baptists, however, had maintained foreign
                    missions in 
                        China
                     for many years, and now the Chinese question assumed priority on the domestic front,
                    although Baptists were not entirely united on this issue. Davis asserts that no major religious
                    group was as torn asunder over the Chinese question as were the Baptists.
            With the coming of large numbers of immigrants from southern and eastern Europe after the turn of the
                    century, another major issue faced the Baptists. Most of the newcomers were of the Catholic faith,
                    and anti-Romanism was a powerful force in the 
                        United States
                    . There was fear that the radicalism of some eastern Europeans would jeopardize belief
                    in Anglo Saxon superiority. Yet many Baptists felt that such immigration was a part of Divine 
                        Providence
                    's plan, not only for the good of the immigrants themselves but ultimately for
                    the welfare of the nation. Some believed the newly arrived aliens were creating many of the domestic
                    social problems which began to appear in ever increasing numbers. Labor riots of the 1880s and 1890s
                    were blamed on the foreign population. To others, however, such incidents offered a challenge to
                    implement the Social Gospel, although most Baptists were not yet ready for this step. Other
                    denominations, especially the Presbyterian and Methodist, were equally confused.
            The road from fear to friendship was long and hard, but Baptists forged ahead in their work among
                    immigrant  groups, particularly with the Germans, Swedes, Poles,
                    Hungarians, and Italians. Walter Rauschenbusch, Shailer Mathews, and others led the crusade for
                    social justice, although many Baptist journals were opposed.
            During World War I, one of the leading Baptist papers claimed that the fidelity of nine tenths of the
                    persons of 
                        German
                     origin in America was unquestionable. Davis concludes that in this testing time for the
                    American nation and its ideals, Baptists on the whole honored their long held precepts of religious
                    liberty, the equality of all men before God, and the worth of each individual. In this respect, he
                    asserts, the years from 1914 to 1925 constituted one of their finest hours.
            Davis has written a very interesting and readable book. It is well documented, although the sources
                    are understandably limited. The footnotes are conveniently arranged at the bottom of the pages.
                    Perhaps others will be challenged to do similar work for other denominations.
            
               
                  
                            Franklin
                         College, 
                            Franklin
                        , Ind. I. George Blake
         
         
            
               The Papers of Andrew Johnson. Volume III, 1858–1860. Edited by LeRoy P. Graf and Ralph W. Haskins; assistant editor, Patricia
                    P. Clark. (
                        Knoxville
                    : The University of Tennessee Press, 1972. Pp. xlii, 753. Illustrations, notes,
                    appendix, index. $20.00.)
            Professors Graf and Haskins have compiled here the third of a projected ten volume collection of the
                    correspondence, speeches, and official documents relevant to the life of Andrew Johnson. Covering
                    the years 1858 through 1860, this volume treats the major concerns and activities of the
                    tailor-politician as he was emerging to national prominence as a 
                        United States
                     senator from 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            It was during these years that Johnson became the chief advocate for passage of a national homestead
                    law, and his letters and speeches reveal a considerable variety of arguments designed to attract
                    disparate elements to his dream of opening up the West to the common man. His capacity for invective
                    is also evident in his response to President James Buchanan's veto of his Homestead Bill.
                    Ironically, the Republican  party, not Democrat Johnson, would
                    receive ultimate credit in the textbooks when the Homestead Law later became a reality.
            Although Johnson usually remained aloof from the raging debates in the Senate over the issue of
                    slavery, he did become passionately involved when the Congress reacted to John 
                        Brown
                    's raid at Harper's Ferry. His stirring oration against the
                    Republicans, who he thought had encouraged 
                        Brown
                    's actions, and his arguments in defense of the slave labor system, reveal much
                    about the man and his attachments to the South.
            Johnson's letters and public pronouncements also indicate a definite interest in the
                    presidency. Although he appeared to be fishing for support, he made it clear that he would not
                    personally initiate action to get his name before the 1860 Democratic National Convention in 
                        Charleston
                    : "If it goes there it must be the act of others not mine" (p. 292).
                    Nor did he rule out the possibility of second place on the ticket. In January, 1860, he remarked
                    privately: "There could be no Safer positin [sic] to Secure the first
                    place four years hence than Second place on the ticket now" (p. xxvi).
            Although Johnson possessed a strong states rights commitment and staunchly defended the slave labor
                    system, the prospects of secession in 1860 deeply troubled him. It was at this juncture that he
                    became a leading spokesman for moderation, pleading with his southern colleagues that their
                    interests could best be served within the Union. Johnson even turned to efforts to alter the
                    governmental system in order to accommodate northern and southern views through a series of
                    constitutional amendment proposals that he hoped would forestall secession. One of these proposals
                    urged a rotation of the presidency between proslavery and free soil states. Another sought to
                    balance the Supreme Court with equal representation, North and South. It appears Johnson was already
                    manifesting some of the characteristics that would appeal to Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     and his Union party ticket four years hence.
            With reference to the mechanics of the work—the symbols, abbreviations, short titles, and
                    index are constructed in a manner that clarify and illuminate the volume. Elaborate, factual notes
                    place the documents in historical perspective. The editors had a high standard to uphold, as the
                    first two  volumes received much praise from the historical
                    profession. Volume III is equally impressive.
            
               University of Southern 
                     California,
                                Los Angeles
                  
                Richard Allen
                Heckman
         
         
            
               The Credit Merchants: A History of Spiegel, Inc. By Orange A. Smalley and
                    Frederick D. Sturdivant. Introduction by Harold F. Williamson. (Carbondale: Southern Illinois
                    University Press, 1973. Pp. xvii, 336. Tables, illustrations, appendix, notes, index.
                    $12.50.)
            This is a well written book dealing with the complex history of one of the best known mail order
                    firms. The work amply documents the Spiegel family's considerable success in merchandizing.
                    It is a substantial contribution to the literature of business history, complimenting an existing
                    study of Sears, Roebuck and Company and surpassing a company history of Spiegel. That first Spiegel
                    history, in fact, was produced from Orange A. Smalley's original manuscript in 1965, after
                    Smalley's death in 1964. The present book, sponsored by Northwestern University's
                    Committee for Business History and completed by Frederick D. Sturdivant, is also based upon
                    Smalley's decade of research, which had received support from the Spiegel Company through
                    the same committee.
            
               The Credit Merchants depicts the endurance and audacity of three generations of the
                    Spiegel family in maintaining their family firm. Joseph Spiegel of the immigrant generation survived
                    a Confederate prison and ran high quality retail furniture stores in 
                        Chicago
                     until he stumbled suddenly into bankruptcy in 1892. Modie Spiegel, his eldest son,
                    immediately led his doubting father and others into high pressure sales of low quality furniture to
                    working class Chicagoans on credit. This venture proved quite successful, despite the depression of
                    1893, and endured until liquidation in early 1929. Long before, in 1905, the youngest son, Arthur,
                    initiated an experiment coupling mail order sales and installment credit which was the Spiegel
                    firm's innovative contribution to retailing. The company preceded both Sears and Montgomery
                    Ward by some years in the use of credit. Well before  World War
                    I mail order credit became the mainstay of Spiegel's profits.
            Spiegel managed to take both the recession of 1914 and the postwar depression in stride; the second
                    generation management, chiefly Modie, grew mildly complaisant during the 1920s. The
                    authors' most intriguing discussions are of Spiegel's near discovery of the
                    possibilities of add-on (modern revolving credit) in 1908 and again in 1917. Both times the second
                    generation management drew up short after successful experiments produced rapidly mounting short
                    term debt and receding customer maturities. The practice of revolving credit was not adopted by them
                    and their competitors until the 1930s.
            The third generation, led by Modie Spiegel jr., took charge during the depression of the 1930s.
                    Spiegel throve, first by enlarging their quest for customers geographically and numerically, later
                    by improving their product lines to tap a more discerning market. World War II brought an end to
                    "no downpayment, no interest" credit terms; since then hidden charges have become
                    more visible. After the war Modie jr. took Spiegel on an ill fated decade long effort to match
                    Sears' success with new retail outlets. After a decade of apparent success with mail order
                    and notable moderization of technology, the Spiegels sold their firm to Beneficial Finance
                    Corporation in 1965.
            As a work of business history this book has considerable merit. It could have been improved by closer
                    attention to comparisons with Montgomery Ward and Sears, by analysis of the importance of locational
                    factors (
                        Chicago
                    ) in the success of all three (or just Spiegel as the newest), and by analysis of the
                    dependence of all three (or just Spiegel as the smallest) on bankers for short term debt needs to
                    offset customer credit. As a scholarly work the book is marred by missing notes for one chapter, by
                    an added and threadbare final chapter, by inadequate research beyond the Spiegel archives, and by
                    the lack of a bibliography. As a study of the family and its firm from a conventional
                    historian's point of view, it is suggestive but scarcely definitive. It largely overlooks,
                    or stops short of adequate inquiry into, the company's dealings with labor, its attitudes
                    on blacks as customers and as workers, and its feelings about anti-
                        German
                     and anti-Semitic prejudice. Matters like reasons for incorporation  under West Virginia laws and instances of lobbying in various eras are
                    simply not plumbed.
            
               University of 
                     Wisconsin, Madison
                  
                Merrill Hough
         
         
            
               Guerrilla Warrior: The Early Life of John J. Pershing. By Donald Smythe. (
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribner's Sons, 1973. Pp. ix, 370. Illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $10.95.)
            This very readable study of General Pershing's career prior to World War I is based on
                    massive scholarship. Donald Smythe has consulted more than eighty manuscript collections (including
                    sixteen separate collections of Pershing papers), interviewed some one hundred persons and
                    corresponded with even more, read newspapers ranging from the 
                        Boston
                    
                    Globe to the Manila Times, and mastered the vast array of
                    literature on the "old Army" before 1917. The result is first rate military
                    biography, and Smythe's Pershing will sit well along side of Edward Coffman's
                    Peyton March, Clayton James' Douglas MacArthur, or Forrest Pogue's George
                    Marshall.
            The man chosen to command the American Expeditionary Force to 
                        France
                     in 1917 had, ironically, spent his entire military career in command of small units.
                    Smythe's focus is on Pershing as frontier cavalryman—"guerrilla
                    warrior"—chasing Apaches in Arizona and Sioux in the Dakotas, pacifying Moros in
                    the 
                        Philippines
                    , and leading the famous Punitive Expendition against Pancho Villa in northern 
                        Mexico
                    . During the 1890s Pershing fought in the Spanish American War in the battles around
                    Santiago and also commanded cadets at the University of Nebraska and at West Point. It was at West
                    Point that he earned the nickname "Black Jack" or "Nigger Jack,"
                    an uncomplimentary epithet resulting from his excessive concern for discipline. Indeed, the Pershing
                    of those early years was very much a "professional's professional," an
                    ambitious and capable soldier who won jungle campaigns through diplomacy as well as through force
                    and who rose in rank through good connections as well as through good deeds. Smythe proves that
                    Pershing did not owe his rapid promotion to direct political influence; nonetheless, it did not hurt
                    that his father-in-law was chairman of the Senate Military Affairs Committee. Similarly,
                    Pershing's  selection to command the AEF was aided by
                    his proven ability during the Villa campaign to follow political orders without
                    protest—even when he disagreed with those orders. Better than most professionals,
                    especially his chief rival, Leonard Wood, Pershing knew how to be diplomat as well as warrior.
            Smythe is also very good at probing Pershing's personality. The man was certainly stiff and
                    forbidding, something of a martinet, respected but unloved by his troops. But the general could
                    loosen up among friends, and his marriage to Frances Warren was supremely happy. The anguish that
                    Pershing suffered in 1915 when his wife and three of their four children perished in a fire must
                    have been devastating, and Smythe demolishes the legend that Pershing, unflinchingly, survived the
                    tragedy with his "iceberg" demeanor intact. Smythe even suggests that
                    Pershing's irritability and willingness to risk war in his pursuit of Villa may have
                    resulted from pent up emotions following the tragedy.
            One minor complaint: Smythe rarely criticizes the military milieu in which Pershing lived. He
                    describes the battles, the campaigns, the military values, but he rarely asks why. For example,
                    young Lieutenant Pershing was in 
                        South Dakota
                     in the winter of 1890–1891 when the incident at Wounded Knee Creek occurred.
                    The discussion ignores the perspective of the Indians. Smythe does show that Pershing's
                    later campaigns in the 
                        Philippines
                     were bloodless in comparison to other efforts at "pacification." But
                    were they justified? On the other hand, he does give a full view of the Mexican side in his chapters
                    on the Punitive Expedition.
            Volume two is eagerly awaited.
            
               University of 
                            Connecticut
                        , Storrs J. Garry Clifford
         
         
            
               Estranging Dawn: The Life and Works of William Vaughn Moody. By Maurice F.
                    Brown. (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press, 1973. Pp. xiii, 321. Illustrations, sources,
                    notes, index. $12.50.)
            William Vaughn Moody is commonly acclaimed the best American poet between the end of the nineteenth
                    century and the arrival of the new poetry in the 1915–1925 period. Born in New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, in 1869, the son of an Ohio River
                     steamboat captain, Moody lost both parents while he was an
                    adolescent, early established a record for academic excellence and won a scholarship to 
                        Harvard
                    , and devoted most of his short life to traveling, teaching, and writing. He had the
                    good fortune to meet a brilliant group of poets and critics—George Santayana, Edwin
                    Arlington Robinson, Trumbull Stickney, Percy MacKaye, and Ridgely Torrence—and he was a
                    close friend of Robert Morss Lovett, Ferdinand Schevill, and Robert Herrick. In his later years he
                    moved easily in 
                        Chicago
                     society and among the 
                        New York
                     intelligentsia, devoting himself first to masques and lyrics employing mythological
                    themes and subsequently to realistic drama with overtones of symbolism. His The Great
                        Divide was a spectacular stage success of 1906–1907.
            Maurice F. Brown's book, heralded as the first full scale biography of Moody, is richly
                    documented. The author has not only drawn upon the large collections of Moody materials at
                            
                  Harvard, Princeton
               , and 
                        Chicago
                     but has utilized the extensive correspondence—much of it still in
                    manuscript—of Moody's friends and associates. Nevertheless, the
                    author's interest focuses on the literary work so that we are given less a revelation of
                    Moody's personality than a careful exegesis of his poetry with at times a pedestrian
                    summary of the contents of the longer works.
            Moody's position as a leading poet in a rather fallow period remains unchallenged. Poems
                    like "Gloucester Moors," "The Menagerie," and "An Ode
                    in Time of Hesitation" are standard anthology pieces and suggest that Moody was
                    occasionally conscious of public affairs, although his natural instinct led him to mythology and
                    themes from classical antiquity. His devotion to the poetic drama was sincere and honorable. But
                    poems like "The Death of Eve" and closet drama like "The
                    Fire-Bringer" won him scant audiences; and the ample quotations provided by Professor 
                        Brown
                     only confirm a reader's recollections that Moody's verse was all too
                    often pretentious, flatulent, and otiose. It was only a few years after Moody died in 1910 that the
                    imagist movement burst upon the American consciousness. Compared to the bright, firm images of the
                    newer poets, the casualness and ease of free verse, the colloquialisms and paradoxes of an Ezra
                    Pound or a T. S. Eliot, Moody's poetry seems like the last grasp of the genteel tradition
                    and his careful attention  to rhyme and metre the rather sterile
                    exercise of a formalist.
            Moody gave up the writing of verse about 1905 and succumbed to his fascination with the stage. The Great Divide proved him competent in theatrical technique and demonstrated his
                    skill in dialogue. The Faith Healer, an earlier play which he revised after his
                    first real success, failed to hold audiences, however, and a brain tumor cut short his career at an
                    early age. Given a longer life Moody might have won an imposing position as a playwright able to
                    combine realistic and symbolic technique in the manner of Henrik Ibsen. But it is also possible that
                    Mark Van Doren was correct in his contention that Moody's real genius was in letter
                    writing; the fragments from Moody's correspondence in 
                        Brown
                    's book seem to support this theory. At any rate most of Moody's
                    poetry has not worn well. The present biography is valuable as a record of an intellectual life and
                    as a chronicle of a literary period. It is unconvincing in its effort to make of Moody a significant
                    poet with a message for the present generation.
            
               University of 
                     Illinois,
                                Urbana
                  
                John T. Flanagan
         
         
            
               The Politics of Normalcy: Governmental Theory and Practice in the Harding-Coolidge
                        Era. By Robert K. Murray. The Norton Essays in American History. Edited
                    by Harold M. Hyman. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., 1973. Pp. xii, 162. Notes, bibliographical
                    review, index. Clothbound, $6.95; paperbound, $2.45.)
            This short interpretative work examines politics during the years of Warren G. Harding's
                    presidency and Calvin Coolidge's completion of Harding's term. Based on research
                    even more extensive than that for the author's earlier The Harding Era,
                    it depicts these years not as beginning a hiatus between Wilsonian crusades and F#2 D.
                    Roosevelt's New Deal but as a formative historical period setting a positive pattern in
                    governmental philosophy and operation for the rest of the decade.
            In 1920 the nation was suffering from a complexity of ills: inflation (followed by rapid deflation),
                    unemployment, the Red Scare, and international uncertainty. It seemed to many that Woodrow
                    Wilson's innovative program had not  lived up to its
                    promise, and, as the once aggressive President lay ill in the White House, the Democratic
                    administration appeared to founder. Normalcy provided "traditionally understandable and
                    historically acceptable methods" (p. 2) for meeting problems, and Harding personified the
                    calmness of deliberate conciliation and compromise which would follow consultation with the
                    "best minds" and result in restoration of a "proper"
                    relationship between the executive and legislative branches. Once in office, however, Harding found
                    it no easy task to work with a Congress divided within itself and well trained in conflict with Ms
                    predecessor. Despite the obstacles—and his short tenure—Harding produced much
                    of the normalcy program he had promised, and before his death in 1923 he seemed to be moving toward
                    positive leadership to achieve what was yet pending.
            
               
                        Murray
                     recognizes the existence of corruption but denies it was as significant to the politics
                    of this period as is usually claimed. Senatorial investigations proceeded not only because of
                    apparent irregularities but also because of political animosity and congressional desire to limit
                    presidential authority and independence. These motivations—as well as publicity in the
                    sensation seeking press—produced a "rhetoric of corruption" which 
                        Murray
                     believes was more damaging to Harding's image than was any revelation of
                    wrongdoing on the part of his subordinates.
            It is easy to come away from 
                        Murray
                    's book with the impression that Harding almost alone produced the spirit of
                    his administration. Certainly he did personify its goals and methods, but other leaders were also
                    pursuing the ends of peace, harmony, and unity. Of course, this is a minor
                    criticism—evaluation of an administration's efforts necessarily must center on
                    the President—as is the point that not all quotations are perfectly accurate and at least
                    two (pp. 54–55, 75) are paraphrases rather than the quotations cited. The
                    author's purpose is to understand the politics of the Harding administration in its
                    historical setting. In this he succeeds. The Politics of Normalcy is a welcome
                    addition to the studies of the early 1920s not only because it explodes myths—some of
                    which have been exploded before, yet persist—but because it is suitable for use in
                    undergraduate courses. Such use will speed a more accurate understanding of the period and may  also provide useful insight into how historical interpretations
                    are formed.
            
               William Woods College, 
                            Fulton
                        , Mo. Walden S. Freeman
         
         
            
               The Woman Citizen: Social Feminism in the 1920s. By J. Stanley Lemons. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1973. Pp. xiii, 266. Notes, essay on sources, index.
                    $9.50.)
            For those who still question the wisdom of granting women the right to vote on the eve of a national
                    election involving Warren G. Harding, this book should offer the final answer. J. Stanley Lemons of 
                        Rhode Island
                     College seeks to explore the role played by activist members of the fair sex in a
                    decade currently undergoing general historical reexamination. He admits his effort is part of that
                    reexamination and contends the feminist movement by no means ended with the ratification of the
                    Nineteenth Amendment. Rather, it spilled over into the 1920s and became one component in a surviving
                    progressivism which linked the era of Woodrow Wilson to the era of 
                        Franklin
                     Roosevelt.
            Early in this work Lemons draws a distinction between "hard core" feminists and
                    social feminists. The former gave first priority at all times to rectifying the subordinate status
                    of the American woman. The latter sympathized with this goal, yet often became disillusioned with
                    the means utilized by extremists and even more often with their disregard for other social reforms.
                    Social feminists believed that by working for all progressive legislation they would simultaneously
                    advance the status of women. It is this latter group that most concerns the author, and it is the
                    one he thinks was most influential in the 1920s.
            A case in point is the Shephard-Towner Maternity and Infancy Protection Act of 1921. In spite of
                    attempts by a reluctant Congress to bury the bill, an aroused group of social feminists representing
                    numerous women's professional organizations mobilized support and eventually forced the
                    passage of this first federal social security act. They then joined other reform groups in similar
                    though less successful efforts for legislation granting national unemployment compensation, health
                    insurance, and enforced limitations on wages  and hours. But the
                    defeat of the child labor amendment in 1925 signalled a decline in the influence of social
                    feminists. Thereafter, the author contends, constant squabbles with, hard core feminists, a rapid
                    increase in the number of groups claiming to represent women's interests, and charges that
                    feminists were part of the Spider Web (a series of leftist organizations whose alleged objective was
                    to promote bolshevist principles) all combined to subdue the social feminist movement.
            All this Lemons weaves into a coherent, well written study, in which he admirably covers the large
                    number of professional women's organizations existing in the 1920s. His research is
                    extensive, impressing the reader that The Woman Citizen was not quickly composed
                    to take advantage of contemporary reading interests. It is a solid effort which ably supports
                    revisionist scholarship on the 1920s. It also shows that a large number of women voters cast their
                    ballots in the 1920 presidential election for reasons much more valid than the physical
                    attractiveness of one of the candidates.
            
               Southern Illinois University, Carbondale Wayne A. Wiegand
         
         
            
               The Rise and Fall of the People's Century: Henry A. Wallace and American
                        Liberalism, 1941–1948. By N#2 D. Markowitz. (
                        New York
                    : The Free Press, 1973. Pp. xi, 369. Illustrations, notes, appendix, select
                    bibliographical essay, index. $8.95.)
            Henry Wallace is an important figure, not only because he might have become President of the 
                        United States
                     had not F#2 D. Roosevelt dropped him from the ticket in 1944 but also because of the
                    ideas of social liberalism that he supported. The major thesis of this work by N#2 D. Markowitz is
                    that Wallace offered an alternative to the American liberal, both in the domestic and foreign areas,
                    that was not only viable but could have prevented the excesses and solved the dilemmas that were to
                    lead to the anti-Communist liberalism of the years after 1945. Wallace as an old Progressive and New
                    Dealer wanted to continue and expand those traditions into an American social service state that
                    would culminate in the Century of the Common Man. But Roosevelt turned his back on his own domestic
                    program, and  Harry S Truman destroyed any chances of its
                    resuscitation by his disinterest and the appointment of political cronies whose dispositions were
                    clearly not liberal. In the area of foreign relations Wallace wanted to continue the close wartime
                    cooperation with Russia. Here, too, Wallace was thwarted, as the cold warriors of the Truman
                    administration, aided and abetted by such as Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., aroused the Democratic
                    liberals to the dangers of Communism and what they considered the foolishness of Wallace. Wallace in
                    a last attempt to recapture his vision broke with Truman, became the editor of the New
                        Republic, and later resigned to run for President on the Progressive ticket in 1948. But
                    alas, Gideon's army had too many colonels and not enough privates who voted, and Wallace
                    suffered a disastrous defeat as his whole movement was tarred with the brush of Communism.
            The author has a compelling thesis that has been ably researched and well presented, but the book is
                    marred by a gradual dropping off of the tone and level of objectivity. The implication is strongly
                    left that if Democratic liberals had only followed Wallace that the problems of postwar America
                    might have been solved and that Democratic liberals faced a choice of only two strains of thought.
                    At no time does the author consider what the possible results of following the proposals of Wallace
                    might have led to, or whether there were other alternatives within the liberal stream (both Democrat
                        and Republican) that Wallace might have tapped for broader support. As it
                    stands, Professor Markowitz' book is an important contribution to a growing camp of
                    revisionist literature on the years from 1941 to 1948.
            
               University of Tulsa, Tulsa Thomas Buckley
         
         
            
               Sex and Marriage in Utopian Communities: 19th Century America. By Raymond Lee
                    Muncy. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1973. Pp. 275. Notes, index. $10.00.)
            Before one flees to the backwoods of 
                        Vermont
                    , the mountains of New 
                        Mexico
                    , or an urban counter culture "crashpad" to create a New World purged
                    of middle class mores, values, and corruptions, he ought to read Professor Muncy's book.
                         This interesting, informative work surveys the communalism
                    of the nineteenth century, and his conclusions with respect to those utopias are likely to be
                    repeated when the history of twentieth century communitarianism is written. Those earlier Utopians
                    were frequently obsessed with sex, often wrestled vigorously with the institution of the private
                    family, and usually sought to eliminate private property. Nearly all failed. However, a few groups
                    lasted for a long time and even persist today. Certain characteristics were found in the successful
                    ones: the Ephrataites, Shakers, Rappites, Zoarites, True Inspirationists (Amana), Perfectionists,
                    Mormons, and Hutterites. They were usually religious dictatorships which either abolished or greatly
                    modified the usual institutions of private property and familism. One may guess that current groups
                    like the Black Muslims, the Children of God, or the Church of Armageddon will outlast the
                    psycho-politico-economic utopias of the disciples of B. F. Skinner, Timothy Leary, the Black
                    Panthers, or the counter culture.
            The principal cause of the failure of the nineteenth century utopias was the inability of the members
                    to put community interests above individual interests. One of the most fundamental, most ancient of
                    social institutions, which caused more concern among communitarians than any other thing, was the
                    private family. Victorian America believed that the family was the cornerstone of civilization, that
                    woman's sphere was the home, and that her role was motherhood. Therefore, communitarian
                    efforts to alter the family meant a fundamental change in the role and place of women. Muncy argues
                    that female dissatisfaction was a major factor in the failure of nearly all utopian experiments:
                    adjustments fell most heavily upon women. The only long lived communities were those, like the
                    Ephrata, Shaker, and Amana communities, which developed theologies that required
                    and justified major changes in marriage and the family. The secular utopias promised more rights for
                    women, but all failed in short order. The situation of women in the religious communities ranged
                    from complete subordination with the Mormons to complete equality at Oneida. Generally, however, the
                    sectarians were patriarchal.
            Scholars who have kept up with work on American utopianism will learn little new general information
                    but will find Muncy's selection and emphasis quite helpful. In addition  to a wealth of detail about sex and marriage, one learns about a number
                    of little known, even bizarre Utopias. The entire book is clearly written and well organized. A
                    topic which could have been handled so as to produce leering snickers is treated with sympathetic,
                    sober understanding. This reviewer was troubled by the absence of either a bibliography or some note
                    on sources. While Muncy seems to have read everything in the printed sources, he seems to have used
                    only one or two manuscript collections.
            
               
                  
                            Rhode Island
                         College, 
                            Providence
                        
                J. Stanley Lemons
         
         
            Books on Indiana
            The Indiana University Press has available the following titles concerning Indiana:
            
               The Angel and the Serpent: The Story of 
                            New Harmony
                        . By William E. Wilson. 242 pages, illustrated. $6.95.
            
               Indiana: A History. By William E. Wilson. 384 pages, illustrated. $6.95.
            
               Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer. Volume I, The Early
                    Years. By Thomas D. Clark. 371 pages, illustrated. $10.00
            
               Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer. Volume II, In
                    Mid-Passage. By Thomas D. Clark. 429 pages, illustrated. $17.50. Volumes I and II of
                        Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer may be purchased as a set for
                    $24.00.
            
               Southern Indiana. Photographs by Hartley Alley. Text by Jean Alley. 128 pages, 180
                    photographs. Paperbound, $2.95; clothbound, $5.00.
            
               Persons desiring to purchase any of the above volumes should write to the Indiana
                    University Press, 601 North Morton, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
