
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 93, Issue 2, pages 105-215. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:93+issue:2+year:1997&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Civil War Letters as Historical Sources
            
                    Thomas E. Rodgers
                    *
                
            
                    Mother, father, brother, sister, wife, sweet-heart, keep that bundle sacredly! Each word will be
                        historic, each line will be invaluable. When peace has restored the ravages of war, and our
                        nation[']s grandeur has made this struggle the most memorable of those great conflicts
                        by which ideas are rooted into society, these pen-pictures of the humblest events, the merest
                        routine details of the life led in winning national unity and freedom, will be priceless. Not
                        for the historian's sake alone, do I say, keep those letters, but for your sakes who
                        receive them and ours who write them. The next skirmish may stop our pulses forever, and our
                        letters full of love for you, will be our only legacy beside that of having died in a noble
                        cause. And should we survive the war with health and limb uninjured, or bowed with sickness or
                        crippled with wounds, those letters will be dear mementos to us of dangers past, of trials
                        borne, of privations suffered, of comrades beloved. Keep our letters then, and write to us all
                        the home news and home "gossip." Bid us God speed-speak kindly, loving,
                        courageous words to us. If you can't be Spartans-and we don't want you to
                        be-be "lovers, countrymen and friends." So shall our feet fall lighter, and
                        our sabres heavier.
                    
                  
                     
                                Rockville
                                Parke County
                             Republican, June 8, 1864
                
            This admonition neatly summarizes the meaning and importance that many Hoosiers assigned to the
                    letters sent to and from the front lines of the Civil War. Indiana's soldiers were very
                    conscious that they were involved in momentous historical events and that the letters, diaries, and
                    memoirs they wrote would form part of the chronicle of these events. They and their correspondents
                    were also fully aware that letters from home were an important support for their morale. And
                    everyone understood that the letters sent back and forth provided the soldiers and the loved ones
                    they left behind with a way to maintain and express their ties of affection.
            Today, more than 130 years after the end of the war, privately held collections of Civil War
                    materials provide those who possess them with a sense of their family heritage and pride in the
                    sacrifices made by their ancestors. They are also important primary sources for historians. They are
                    useful in the study not only of battle experiences 
                  
                     * Thomas E. Rodgers received his doctorate in American
                            history from Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . His most recent publication is "Republicans and Drifters: Political
                            Affiliation and Union Army Volunteers in West-Central Indiana," which appeared in
                            the December, 1996, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History.
                  
               
                     and camp life but also the general political and social history
                    of the middle nineteenth century.
            Civil War letters, diaries, and memoirs are most commonly used as primary sources for narratives of
                    battles and campaigns or for works describing the social makeup of the armies. As is evident in the
                    letters Vivian Zollinger has discovered, soldiers filled their correspondence with descriptions of
                    battles, camp life, training, troop movements, and other experiences directly related to the war.
                    Historians have used these descriptions to great effect for many years. Anyone who has read such a
                    war narrative as Bruce Catton's A Stillness at 
                            Appomattox
                        
                or such a descriptive study of the troops as Bell I. Wiley's The Life of Billy Yank knows the richness of detail and understanding that a good
                    historian can derive from the writings left behind by the soldiers.1
            
            More recently, the written record of Civil War soldiers has become a fertile source for practitioners
                    of the "New Military History." Scholars using this approach are preoccupied with
                    the motivations of soldiers and the experience and effects of combat. The Civil War is an especially
                    fruitful field for such historians because of the voluminous surviving primary sources and because
                    the army did not censor the letters of Union soldiers. These combatants were free to speak their
                    minds and reveal their emotions concerning combat and the cause in which they had enlisted. The
                    value of Civil War sources for this new approach to military history can be seen in such works as
                    Gerald Linderman's Embattled Courage, Reid Mitchell's Civil War Soldiers, James McPherson's What They Fought
                    For, and Joseph T. Glatthaar's The March to the Sea and Beyond.
               2
            
            While military historians, whether old or new, continue to make extensive use of the writings of
                    soldiers, political and social historians have not yet adequately exploited these sources. The new
                    military historians have used some of the political material for what it can tell about the
                    soldiers' motivations for serving, but political historians have not yet meaningfully
                    engaged this material. The amount of political content in the correspondence to and from the front
                    varies considerably from family to family, but taken as a whole Civil War letters, diaries, and
                    memoirs provide a unique opportunity for historians to read what large numbers of
                    mid-nineteenth-century common men and common women thought about the issues of the day. Section four
                    of Zollinger's collection provides some idea of the range of views and 
                  
                     1 Bruce Catton, A Stillness at 
                                    Appomattox
                                
                      (
                                Garden City
                            , N.J., 1953); Bell I. Wiley, The Life of Billy Yank: The Common
                                Soldier of the Union (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1952).
                  
                     2 Joseph T. Glatthaar, The March to the Sea and Beyond:
                                Sherman's Troops in the Savannah and Carolinas Campaigns (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1985); Gerald F. Linderman, Embattled Courage: The Experience of
                                Combat in the American Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1987); James M. McPherson, What They Fought For,
                            1861–1865 (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1994); Reid Mitchell, Civil War Soldiers: Their Expectations and
                                Their Experiences (
                                New York
                            , 1988).
               
                     attitudes to be found. In addition, these and many other
                    Hoosier Civil War letters provide a sense of the intensity of political animosity in Indiana as
                    partisanship reached new levels of passion in 1863 and 1864. The apprehension of possible civil war
                    in Indiana was a sentiment that was pervasive not only in 
                        Owen County
                     but all across the state.
            Social historians similarly have failed to exploit adequately Civil War letters as a source of
                    information for their studies. Granted, they may have to read through much camp life and battle
                    material to find that information, but their efforts will be rewarded. Scattered throughout Hoosier
                    Civil War correspondence are all kinds of details that collectively provide a window through which
                    historians can view the lives of the common men and women of mid-nineteenth-century Indiana. Used in
                    conjunction with the manuscript census, marriage records, newspapers, and other such records and
                    sources, Civil War letters provide historians with the opportunity to reconstruct much of the
                    content and dynamics of life in the rural communities and small towns of Indiana: the gendered tasks
                    of everyday life; moneylending between friends and relatives; the sharing of work at harvest and
                    other times of peak labor demand; female networks; the preoccupation of Hoosiers with illness,
                    injury, and infirmities; individual and groups acts designed to support the war effort; marketing
                    and economic strategies; and formal social events and activities. The letters that Zollinger
                    presents here are particularly helpful in recreating life in rural neighborhoods, because she so
                    often is able to include letters from more than one family in one rural community. Thus her letters
                    provide an unusually good sense of the dense kin and friendship relationships existing in rural 
                        Owen County
                     and among many of the soldiers from those neighborhoods who joined and fought together.
                    So many spoken things that historians would never hear-from the affectionate words of husbands and
                    wives, to boys flirting with and attempting to court Emerine Hicks, to neighborhood gossip, to
                    political and military rumors-are preserved here in written words because the war separated members
                    of closeknit neighborhoods.3
            
            There is, of course, more to the letters and diaries of Civil War soldiers and their families than
                    useful bits of information for historians. While many letters are mundane descriptions of camp life
                    or of farming activities back home, there are others that are filled with intrinsic human drama and
                    poignancy. One finds touching romance, 
                  
                     3 John Mack Faragher has taken advantage of the content of the letters
                            of some midwestern families separated by the migration of some of their members on the 
                                Oregon
                             Trail to help create one of the best brief descriptions and analyses of life in
                            the rural Midwest in the mid-nineteenth century as well as the experience of families
                            traveling on wagon trains. His work provides a model for historians seeking to distill
                            social history from the letters of families separated by war. John Mack Faragher, Women and Men on the Overland Trail (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1979).
               
                     as a husband and wife separated by war express their love and
                    longing for each other. One finds the pathos of a soldier trying to tell as gently as he can the
                    parents of his friend that their son and his comrade is dead. And once in a while one finds the
                    description of a peculiarly poignant moment in the life of a young soldier. Zollinger includes such
                    a description in section three in Vint Anderson's account of how his drunken revelry was
                    abruptly halted by the look in the eyes of one southern woman bystander.
            While there is much to be learned and enjoyed from the kind of sources Zollinger presents here, one
                    must be aware of the ways in which they can mislead as well as inform. For example, despite the
                    large number of Civil War letters, diaries, and memoirs that have survived, one has to question how
                    representative their contents are of the views of the people of the areas from which their writers
                    came or of the men of the units in which their authors served. The collections that have survived
                    are disproportionately those of officers, married men, members of families long established in a
                    given area, and Republicans. Although some of the letters presented by Zollinger contain criticisms
                    of the 
                        Lincoln
                     administration, one would not get the impression from them or from other collections of 
                        Owen County
                     letters that a large majority of the voters of the county voted against the Republicans
                    and their policies in 1862 and 1864.4 Likewise, while many of the letters
                    presented here are from the correspondence between a husband and wife, it should not be assumed that
                    a large proportion of the volunteers were married men. In fact, many married men did not volunteer.
                    For instance, of the married male residents of draft age who have biographies in Charles
                    Blanchard's 1884 history of 
                        Owen County
                    , nearly two-thirds did not serve.5 Similarly misleading is the
                    impression left by the letters that the companies from Owen consisted only of men drawn from local
                    families. As was typical of units across the state, a number of Owen's recruits were highly
                    mobile farm laborers who just happened to be in the county when they volunteered. For example, more
                    than one-third of the volunteers in Company I, 19th Indiana Regiment of Volunteers, and Company
                        
                  
                     4 This comment is based on Zollinger's materials and two
                            other major collections by 
                                Owen County
                             residents: the David Enoch Beem Papers and the James Grimsley Papers (Indiana
                            Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). The Democratic candidate for secretary of state received 66.2 percent of the 
                                Owen County
                             vote in 1862, while the Democratic gubernatorial candidate garnered 58.2
                            percent of the county's vote in 1864. Voting information is from 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, November 6, 1862; Robert J. Pitchell, Indiana
                                Votes: Elections for Governor, 1852–1956, and Senator,
                            1914–1958 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1960), 13.
                  
                     5 Based on fifty-seven married men who were born 1826–1846.
                            Of the fifty-seven, twenty-one (36.8 percent) served, while thirty-six (63.2 percent) did
                            not. Married Republicans (N=15,52.9 percent) were more likely to serve than
                            Democrats (N=18, 22.2 percent) or married men for whom no party affiliation was
                            given (N=24,33.3 percent). The fifty-seven biographies appear in the 
                                Owen County
                             section of Charles Blanchard, ed., Counties of 
                                    Clay
                                 and Owen, Indiana: Historical and Biographical (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884).
               
                    
                    
                  PAGE OF A LETTER WRITTEN BY JOHN RUBLE, A SOLDIER FROM OWEN COUNTY
                  
                  Courtesy Dorothy Childress, Stilesville, Indiana.
               
                     G, 97th Indiana Regiment of Volunteers who gave 
                        Owen County
                     as their place of residence were men who were not living in the county when the 1860
                    census was taken.6
            
            Another caveat to keep in mind as one reads Civil War letters is that correspondents may have
                    restrained themselves when writing. They were conscious that they were writing for the historical
                    record and that they were writing to loved ones who might become unduly upset by the content of
                    letters. In fact, one of the most striking things about the letters of Hoosier soldiers is how
                    little of the horror and gore of war these epistles communicated to the folks back home. Although
                    battles are described in general terms and men dying of disease are noted, little of the horror of
                    what the writer experienced is ever conveyed. The letters of Andrew Bush on the following pages are
                    atypical in their unusually graphic content. One must also suspect that writers often understated or
                    omitted misgivings about such things as the war and government policies, the intensity of vice in
                    the camps, and the difficulties of keeping a farm operating with a husband absent.7
            
            Even if Civil War letters, diaries, and memoirs do not tell everything and may not represent
                    everybody, they still say a great deal about the lives of a great many people. Zollinger's
                    discovery of so many heretofore unknown Civil War letters in her home county suggests that even
                    after more than one and a quarter centuries of research there are still many Civil War primary
                    documents that are unknown to historians. For those who possess the letters and diaries of a Civil
                    War ancestor, they are not just primary documents but heirlooms that are an important part of their
                    heritage. Historians should be grateful to the 
                        Owen County
                     residents who have chosen to share their family heirlooms in this issue of the Indiana Magazine of History and to Vivian Zollinger for locating and preparing
                    these materials for publication. Historians can only hope that other local historians will attempt
                    to duplicate Zollinger's efforts and that they will find donators as generous as those she
                    found in 
                        Owen County
                    .
            
               
                  6 No possible matches for forty (41.2 percent) of ninety-seven enlisted
                        men and noncommissioned officers in Company I, 19th, who listed their residence as 
                            Owen County
                         could be located in U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, Population Schedules for 
                            Owen County
                        . The figures for Company H, 97th, were thirty-two (34.0 percent) of ninety-four.
                        The 19th was recruited in July, 1861, and the 97th in August, 1862. A few of the men who did not
                        appear in the census were probably former Owen residents who returned home to enlist with
                        brothers or other relatives still living in the county. Lists of the recruits for these two
                        companies were taken from William H. H. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General of
                            Indiana (8 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1865–1869).
               
                  7 In his insightful and suggestive analysis of one 
                            Connecticut
                         soldier's letters, anthropologist Robert L. Bee has demonstrated how
                        soldiers' letters were often not simple recountings of events but were instead
                        narratives shaped by writing conventions, the need to appear manly, the desire to shield the
                        home folks from gore, and other factors. Robert L. Bee, "
                            Fredericksburg
                         on the Other Leg: Sergeant Ben Hirst's Narrative of Important Events, 
                            Gettysburg
                        , July 3, 1863," in The Third Day at 
                                Gettys burg
                             & Beyond, ed. Gary W. Gallagher (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 1994), 132–60.
            
         
         
         
            "I Take My Pen in Hand": Civil War Letters from 
                        Owen County
                    , Indiana, Soldiers
            
                    Vivian Zollinger
                    *
                
            A study of early 
                        Owen County
                    , Indiana, would be limited largely to cold data and legends were it not for rare,
                    faded, fold-worn letters. The letters in this collection were written by 
                        Owen County
                     soldiers during the Civil War-letters to the folks back home. Stylized formality did
                    little to veil the men's loneliness, weariness, and pain. From their words we know them.
                    The soldiers' descendants hesitated in bringing forth these treasures to be copied. Some
                    refused to share even a reading of their letters. Their pause is easy to understand. The words were
                    personal, meant only for loved ones.
            Pockets of 
                        Owen County
                     were first settled by clans from the backcountry of 
                  Virginia, North
                    Carolina
               , eastern 
                        Kentucky
                    , and 
                        Tennessee
                    . By the time Indiana achieved statehood in 1819, settlers had begun to take up land in
                    parts of 
                        Owen County
                    . Stories exist of men visiting these wooded hills, walking back home to gather up their
                    families, belongings, and livestock, and then returning before winter. The settlers brought their
                    customs as well. What is more, they brought their courage against hardship, loyalty to kin, and
                    suspicion of outsiders. They brought their fundamental faith in God and their passion for freedom.
            A few decades later a sizable migration from eastern 
                        Ohio
                     peopled some parts of the western side of the county. Many of the families that came at
                    this time were only a generation or two removed from 
                        Germany
                     and adhered to their old language and customs within cohesive communities.1
            
            
               
                  * Vivian Zollinger is a seventh generation native of 
                            Owen County
                        , Indiana. Her research and writing projects focus on individuals and families,
                        their lives and times. She writes "
                            Owen County
                         Ancestors," a newspaper column published in the 
                            Spencer
                         Evening World and Owen Leader and is editor of 
                     
                                Owen County
                             History and Genealogy, a quarterly journal published by the 
                            Owen County
                         Historical and Genealogical Society. She wishes to thank the people who shared
                        their ancestors' writings and the editorial staff of the Indiana Magazine of History
                        for further research, criticism, and suggestions.
               
                  1 Charles Blanchard, ed., Counties of 
                                Clay
                             and Owen: Historical and Biographical (
                            Chicago
                        , 1884), 823–966; records of 
                            St. Paul
                        's Evangelical Lutheran Church, Stubenville, Indiana (
                            Owen County
                         Public Library, 
                            Spencer
                        , Ind.); Florence Stahl Kimble, interview with the author, January, 1992. See also
                        David Hackett Fischer, Albion's Seed: Four British Folkways in
                        America (
                            New York
                        , 1989), 633–38.
            
            
            By the outbreak of the Civil War, over 2,500 dwellings dotted 
                        Owen County
                    . So many of the families in those homes were related to their neighbors, however, that
                    ties of responsibility and loyalty wove them into far fewer social units, groups of related
                        families.2 There were the Williams, Dyer, Hines, and Jean group in
                    southeastern Jefferson Township; the Troth, Biddle, and Criss group of 
                        Lafayette
                     Township; and the Hicks, Beaman, 
                        Jordan
                    , and Haltom neighborhood in Morgan and Jackson townships. Individuals selected their
                    friends and spouses among their neighbors, people with whom they shared work, attended church, and
                    went to school. Imbedded traditions of religion, music, and dialect united these families even
                    beyond blood ties. Those traditions persist to this day. Descendants of some of the original
                    settlers are still represented in their neighborhoods. Kinship and local customs were reflected in
                    the Civil War writings of the men of 
                        Owen County
                    .
            Men from throughout the county volunteered as the first companies organized at the beginning of the
                    war. From the vicinity of 
                        Jordan
                     Village, Atkinsonville, and the Carolina Church came Ara Fraizer of the 59th Regiment
                    and his future brothers-in-law David and William Hunsicker. Ara was a son of Abner and Rachel
                    Fraizer, pioneers in that area. Soldiers Alvin Beaman and Moses Hewitt were among the
                    Fraizers' neighbors. Another neighbor, Nathan C. Hicks, was the third child of Jacob and
                    Anna Beaman Hicks and the older brother of Emerine, who appears to have warmed the hearts of more
                    than one lonely soldier. Close relatives of the Hicks family, Reuben and Nancy Beaman Jordan, saw
                    five sons, three sons-in-law, and one grandson go to war. Three sons and the grandson were killed.
                    John Ruble's letters to his wife in that corner of the county express a common concern of
                    soldiers, that their farms remain productive during their absence. Andrew Jackson rushed to join the
                    14th Regiment, was a nurse in an army hospital, joined the 4th Artillery, was shot in the thigh at 
                        Chancellorsville
                     in 1863, and was detailed to a hospital in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. His wife was Susan Cooksey, who became an activist for the Union cause in the 
                        Jordan
                     Village neighborhood.
            James Robinson, David Johnson, and John and Nathan Troth came from 
                        Lafayette
                     Township. Irish-born Robinson had some experience in military recruiting before he
                    gathered up Company H, 97th Regiment of Volunteers. Governor James Whitcomb had commissioned 
                  
                     2 The figure of 2,500 dwellings is an estimate derived from U.S.,
                            Eighth Census, 1860, Population Schedules for 
                                Owen County
                            , Indiana. Descriptions of 
                                Owen County
                             neighborhoods and groups of families are based on the author's
                            extensive research in the government and geneological records of the county and on the oral
                            testimony of the descendants of Civil War-era residents. Additional information is derived
                            from [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant General of Indiana (8
                            vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1866–1869); David E. Beem, "Military History of 
                                Owen County
                            ," in Blanchard, Counties of 
                                    Clay
                                 and Owen, 617–62.
               
                     him captain of the 
                        Lafayette
                     Rangers, 49th Regiment of the Indiana Militia, sixteen years earlier.
            The Williams brothers-William, Daniel, John, Josiah, and James-were sons of William F. and Mary
                    Williams of southeastern Jefferson Township. Their neighbor Edward Hines joined Daniel and Josiah in
                    Company F, 97th Regiment, the company their neighbor Zachariah Dean recruited. Also among those who
                    came from farms southwest of Freedom was 
                        Fenton
                     Dean, who enlisted after his son, John, was killed, and the McKee family, who saw seven
                    sons go to war. It was a tightly knit community of caring, hard-working families whose descendants
                    still live on their land.
            Descendants of the Bush and Hilligas brothers from the Stockton neighborhood count among their
                    memorabilia a collection of letters chronicling three years of the war as well as a post-war
                    migration to 
                        Nebraska
                    . Those letters or parts of them tell of the experiences of the two sets of brothers and
                    account for friends from their Jefferson Township neighborhood.
            A rich personal history of an extended pioneer family from the 
                        Quincy
                     area can be found in the recollections of Harrison Lyon, one of the three soldier sons
                    of Valentine and Mary Payne Lyon, and in the memoirs of Vincent Anderson, son of Eli and Elizabeth
                    Payne Anderson. All three Anderson sons served in the Union army, leaving their one sister to help
                    the folks at home. They farmed and operated a store in 
                        Quincy
                    . The Paynes were among the earliest 
                        Owen County
                     residents. William Payne married Amma Beem, youngest child of pioneer Daniel Beem and
                    aunt of Captain David E. Beem, who organized Company H, 14th Regiment.
            Most of the men whose letters appear in this collection farmed family-owned land. They were well
                    acquainted with rigorous toil and hardship. Some had learned about war from their
                    grandfathers' stories, embellished perhaps, of the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812.
                    They were not afraid to step forward when the call came for troops. They may have been afraid not to
                    volunteer. Pride and competition with their peers probably contributed to the remarkable rush to
                    enlist in those first units organized in the county.
            On Monday, April 15, 1861, President Abraham Lincoln issued a proclamation calling for 75,000
                    three-month volunteers to defend the integrity of the nation. The same day, a decisive reply came
                    from Governor Oliver P. Morton, who would earn the title of the great "War
                    Governor" of Indiana. 
                        
                            To ABRAHAM LINCOLN,
                            
                        President of the 
                                        United States
                                    : On behalf of the State of Indiana, I tender to you, for the
                                defense of the Nation, and to uphold the authority of the Government, ten
                                    thousand men.
                     
                            3
                        
                    
                    
                  
                     3 Telegram quoted in Beem, "Military History,"
                        626.
               
                    
                    
                  OWEN COUNTY, SHOWING THE LOCATION OF FAMILY
                                RESIDENCES IN THE 1860S
                  Map prepared by Graphics Services, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , based on the author's genealogical research and Indiana Historical
                            Society, Maps of Indiana Counties in 1876 (1876; reprint ed., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968).
               
                    
                    
                  
                     
                                KEY TO FAMILY RESIDENCES
                            
                  
                  
                     
                                A
                            
                     
                                B
                            
                     
                                C
                            
                  
                  
                     Dean
                     Biddle
                     Arnett
                  
                  
                     Dyer
                     Criss
                     Beaman
                  
                  
                     Hines
                     Hunter
                     Fraizer
                  
                  
                     Jean
                     Johnson
                     Hewitt
                  
                  
                     Kelley
                     Robinson
                     Hicks
                  
                  
                     McKee
                     Troth
                     Hunsicker
                  
                  
                     Williams
                     
                     Jackson
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     Ruble
                  
                  
                     
                                D
                            
                     
                                E
                            
                     
                                
                                    
                                        Spencer
                                    
                                
                            
                  
                  
                     Bush
                     Anderson
                     Archer
                  
                  
                     Hilligas
                     Lyon
                     Beem
                  
                  
                     Hochstetler
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Kitch
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Neihart
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Stantz
                     
                     
                  
                The next day in 
                        Owen County
                     David E. Beem announced a public meeting at the courthouse to be held on Friday, April
                    19, to organize a company of volunteers. As Beem described in a later account, 
                        Owen County
                     men immediately began to sign up, some even before the meeting was held. Another
                    meeting at Gosport recruited still more men. By May 8 this company boarded a train for 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the soldiers proudly carrying a flag the women of 
                        Spencer
                     had made for them. Arriving in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , they learned that the quota for threemonth volunteers had already been filled and
                    enthusiastically agreed to become Company H of the 14th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, one of the
                    state's six regiments organized for one year's service. Meanwhile, the president
                    called for 42,000 troops to enlist for three years, and the men of the 14th volunteered almost
                        unanimously.4
            
            Not far behind the soldiers of the 14th were men joining companies of the 19th, 21st, 31st, and 59th
                    regiments. A year later 
                        Owen County
                     men joined Company F of the 71st (they were mounted February 23, 1863, and became known
                    as the 6th Cavalry). In the late summer 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 626–27.
               
                     of 1862 three companies were recruited and attached to the 97th
                    Regiment. Harrison Woodsmall and W. L. Thompson, wounded at 
                        Antietam
                     with the 14th and discharged because of their injuries, helped recruit a six-month
                    company attached to the 115th. Late in the war 
                        Owen County
                     men were recruited for Company D, 149th Regiment. Many 
                        Owen County
                     men went to neighboring counties to enlist, so an accurate count of those who served
                    cannot be established, but according to David E. Beem's later estimate there were more than
                    1,355 Union soldiers from 
                        Owen County
                    . Most went eagerly. Over two hundred did not return.5
            
            The 14th Regiment joined George B. McClellan's army and held an outpost on the summit of
                        Cheat Mountain until the fall of 1861. The regiment then moved to
                    engagements in the Shenandoah Valley. The 14th suffered heavy losses at the
                    Battle of 
                        Antietam
                     the following year as part of the famed "Gibralter Brigade." They
                    fought at 
                        Fredericksburg
                    , participated in the 
                        Gettysburg
                     campaign, and fought at Spotsylvania. They moved into eastern 
                        Virginia
                     and served in the battle at Cold Harbor, where, just hours before his term of service
                    was to expire, George E. Mull of Company H was killed.6
            
            The 19th traveled to 
                        Washington
                     and became part of the unit later known as the "Iron Brigade." In the
                    summer of 1862 Company I suffered great losses at 
                        Gainesville
                    , at South Mountain, and in the Battle of 
                        Antietam
                    . The 19th was among the first units to engage the enemy at 
                        Gettysburg
                    . In the spring of 1864, the 19th participated in the bloody Battle of the Wilderness
                    and at Laurel Hill, North Anna, and Cold Harbor. A large number of the men
                    reenlisted that year as veterans.7
            
            The 21st (1st Heavy Artillery) was sent to 
                        Baltimore
                     in August, 1861, but the following February it steamed with Benjamin Butler's
                    expedition to 
                        Louisiana
                    . There the 21st engaged rebel forces at 
                        Baton Rouge
                     and fought upriver at the siege of Port Hudson and at Mobile. Many members reenlisted
                    at the end of their terms.
            The 31st Indiana first went to western 
                        Kentucky
                    . It fought in the campaign against Forts Henry and Donelson in 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 639–60.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 627–38. The name "Gibralter Brigade"
                            was given by General William Henry French to the 1st Brigade of the division under his
                            command (3rd Division, 2nd Corps) after the men of the brigade had withstood particularly
                            fierce Confederate assaults during the Battle of 
                                Antietam
                            . Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                            1850–1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), 145.
                  
                     7 Beem, "Military History," 639–42.
                                    
                        Gainesville, Virginia
                     , was the site of a small but costly battle
                            in the campaign that led to the Second Battle of Bull Run. The Battle of South
                                Mountain, September 14, 1862, was an early engagement in the 
                                Antietam
                             campaign. Laurel Hill and the North Anna
                            River, both in 
                                Virginia
                            , were the sites of minor battles in the Wilderness and Spotsylvania campaigns
                            of May, 1864. Alan T. Nolan, The Iron Brigade: A Military History (2nd ed., 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1994), 80–130; MarkM. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary (rev.
                            ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1988), 588–89, 597–98.
               
                    
                    
                  DAVID E. BEEM
                  
                  Courtesy Fred Beem Keuthan, Cloverdale, Indiana.
               
                     suffered heavy losses. The men of the 31st served at 
                        Shiloh
                     in April, 1862, before marching to Corinth, 
                        Mississippi
                    . In the winter of 1862 they fought in the Battle of Stones River
                    at 
                  Murfreesboro, Tennessee
               . The following year they moved forward to the Battle of
                    Chickamauga and 
                        Chattanooga
                    . As a veteran organization in 1864 the 31st participated in the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign.
            The 59th Infantry joined General John Pope's Army of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and participated in the capture of New Madrid, 
                        Missouri
                    , in March, 1862. At the Battle of Corinth the men of the 59th were commended for
                    gallantry. They suffered heavy losses at 
                        Vicksburg
                    , where John A. Goodnight, John C. Jarvis, and Emsley W. Vaughn were killed. The 59th
                    remained at 
                        Vicksburg
                     until the middle of September, 1863, when they moved to 
                        Chattanooga
                     and participated in the victory at Missionary Ridge. They reenlisted as a veteran force
                    and after a furlough joined William Tecumseh Sherman's march to the sea.8
            
            In the summer of 1862, Company F, 71st Indiana (6th Cavalry) was sent to 
                        Kentucky
                    , where it participated in the Battle of 
                        Richmond
                    . In that battle it sustained the heaviest losses by any company from 
                        Owen County
                     in any one engagement. William D. Dunivan, Andrew G. Auten, Elijah J. Bivans, James
                    Deem, Thomas D. Fields, Noel Johnson, Eli Nations and Josiah Sheppard were killed, and many others
                    were captured. Those captured were exchanged and later redeployed in 
                        Kentucky
                    . At Muldraugh's Mill, John Hunt Morgan's forces captured the entire
                    regiment. Paroled, the men returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where they received mounts and became known as the 6th Indiana Cavalry. As cavalry
                    they went to eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    , where they helped to end the siege of 
                        Knoxville
                    . Eventually the 6th participated in the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign. The men then returned to 
                        Nashville
                     and were sent on expeditions in eastern 
                        Tennessee
                     in pursuit of Nathan Bedford Forrest's army.9
            
            The 97th Indiana accompanied Ulysses S. Grant toward Vicksburg. The regiment joined
                    Sherman's army near the Big Black River. After the surrender of
                    Vicksburg on July 4,1863, the regiment went to 
                  Jackson, Mississippi
               , and then
                    moved to 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               , and Tuscumbia, 
                        Alabama
                    . In November, 1863, the regiment made a forced march of four hundred miles in order to
                    take part in the Battle of 
                        Chattanooga
                    . More exhausting marches preceded the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign. On Kenesaw Mountain, James L. Strong, William H.
                    Johnson, George Smith, William F. Moore, and Francis M. Fulk were 
                  
                     8 Beem, "Military History," 642–48
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 648–52. The Battle of 
                                Richmond
                             represented a failed Union effort to halt the invasion of 
                                Kentucky
                             by the forces of General Edmund Kirby Smith in August, 1862. The
                            Muldraugh's Mill incident was part of Confederate General John Hunt
                            Morgan's third raid into 
                                Kentucky
                             in late December, 1862. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 568,
                            697–98.
               
                     killed. Fighting at 
                        Atlanta
                     in John Logan's 15th Corps, four more 
                        Owen County
                     men died.10
            
            When they left their farms and went to war, the idealistic, highly motivated men did not know what to
                    expect. They were quickly introduced to the reality of war-endless marching, the boredom of camp
                    life, homesickness, the terror of battle. The letters they sent home referred to all of those
                    things. They offered a view of the war that could only be expressed in those lonely times common
                    soldiers spent "with pen in hand."
            
                    I "I'll Be Home for Harvest"
                
            Men who volunteered early in the war believed it would take no more than a few weeks to suppress the
                    rebellion. A majority of them came from farms, and they knew their work was vital to their families.
                    They were confident, however, that those left at home could manage for a couple of months. The 
                        Owen County
                     commissioners authorized assistance, based upon need, for the families of soldiers as
                    early as March, 1861, but few acknowledged that need in the beginning.11
            
            Enthusiasm for the Union cause gradually gave way to concern, then despair, as a few weeks of
                    excitement became months and then years. The soldiers' letters narrate a full range of
                    experiences-all new, for most were away from home for the first time. The men who could write
                    struggled to describe high adventure, rollicking camaraderie, exuberant self-confidence, chilling
                    fear, boredom, and desperate loneliness. They worried about the farms and families they left in the
                    hills of 
                        Owen County
                    , but they had a job to do and were eager to complete it.
            Among the men who volunteered for service at the first call was twenty-eight-year-old Andrew Jackson
                    of Company H, 14th Volunteers. He was a son of Henry and Nancy Dyar Jackson. He married Susan
                    Cooksey in 1857, and they had two little girls by the time he enlisted. In his first letter home, he
                    expressed affection for his wife and attempted to reassure her. From a camp in 
                        Terre Haute
                     in June, 1861, he wrote:12
                    
                  
                     10 Beem, "Military History," 652–56.
                  
                     11 Motion to Appoint a Committee to Examine the Condition of the
                            Families and Furnish the Necessary Articles for Food and Raiment, 
                                Owen County
                             Commissioner's Books, vol. 6, p. 332 (
                                Owen County
                             Archives, 
                                Spencer
                            , Indiana). The agents appointed for the purpose of furnishing relief for the
                            families of the volunteers were James M. Alexander for 
                                Wayne
                             Township, Moses Bridges for 
                                Montgomery
                            , John M. Coleman for 
                                Washington
                            , Joseph H. McKee for 
                                Franklin
                            , John Currie for Jefferson, John G. Hulett for 
                                Marion
                            , and Phillip Buck for Harrison and Taylor.
                  
                     12 The letters in this collection were drawn from a variety of
                            sources, mostly the private collections of descendants of 
                                Owen County
                             soldiers. It was not always possible to secure the original letters, so in some
                            cases the text that appears here is taken
               
                    
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    I received your letter yesterday and was glad to hear from you and that
                                        you was well my health is verry good at present you wrote to me that you under
                                        stood that I was knot a going to come home any more that is a mistake for if I
                                        can get a furlow I will come home friday the 21st day of this month Susan I love
                                        you and will love you as long as I live Susan you know kot [not] the joy and
                                        satisfaction it gave me when I herd that you was a going to stay at home and
                                        take care of the things you told me that you had all my things yet and you
                                        wanted me to tell you what to do with them I want you to keep them because I do
                                        knot think there is knot mor than I think you kneed as I told yu before the
                                        ladies of this place has been verry good to me mistress [name not legible] last
                                        thursday made and presented to me a nice uniform shirt and the next day we drew
                                        our uniform and I got two mor just like it Susan when father comes horn I want
                                        you to get him to come and fetch you to see me if I do knot get to come
                                    home
                                
                     
                  
                A postscript addressed to his sister, Theresa, assured her that he was a good boy and had
                    not been to town but would if he got a chance. He enclosed two union flag breast pins and directed
                    them to Sarah and Louisa, his little daughters.13
            
            The following week Andrew's regiment was sent to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and equipped for duty with General George B. McClellan's army in western 
                        Virginia
                    .14 In early July Andrew wrote from 
                        Upshire County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    . His spirits were high. He had taken in the sights and wanted to share what he had seen
                    with his father, who had lived in 
                        Virginia
                     as a boy.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           I am well and in fine spirits at present we left 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         on the 5th of this month and came all the way to clarksburgh on the
                                        cars which is about 28 miles from Buchanan where we are now we had to march on
                                        foot 28 miles we have had a good time all the way till we got to marching and
                                        from the time I began marching I have improved all the time tell my Father that
                                        I have seen the 
                                            Laurel
                                         chestnut Huckelberry and Ivy all grow in the Mountains ofverginia
                                        and from where I am writing now the 
                                            Laurel
                                         is blooming just across Buchanan River we have
                                        seen nothing worth while of the secessionists [manuscript
                                    
                              from a transcript. Letters taken from transcripts are marked as such, and
                                            where possible the people who transcribed the original letters are
                                            identified. When transcripts are used, spelling, punctuation, and spacing
                                            are left mostly as they appear in the transcripts. Some changes in spelling
                                            and punctuation and in the construction of paragraphs, however, are made to
                                            ease reading. When letters are taken from original manuscripts, the
                                            following standards apply: changes in the spacing of words and sentences are
                                            made to ease reading; some paragraph breaks are added; some punctuation is
                                            added or altered.
                              
                                 13 Andrew Jackson to Susan Jackson, June 16,1861
                                            (private collection of Juliann McGinnis, 
                                    Covington, Texas
                                 ).
                              
                                 14 Beem, "Military History," 627.
                                            Andrew Jackson's regiment joined McClellan's army in the
                                            middle of the Union's successful campaign to secure western 
                                                Virginia
                                             in the summer of 1861. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary,
                                            907–908.
                           
                                     torn] but we are in the verry
                                        heart [of it] but we will have fun in a few days and then I
                                        will tell you more the rebells flee before us allmost as chaff before the wind
                                        tell my sister Theresa that I have not forgotten her and that I have tried to be
                                        a good boy as she told me in her letter we will march from here this night or in
                                        the mornin to Laurel Hill where we will have to whip about
                                        6 thousand rebells and that is only 15 miles from here
                           15
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            The 14th was the last regiment to arrive at Rich Mountain and was held in
                    reserve in full view of the battle fought there on July 11. Skirmishes followed at Cheat
                        Mountain and Greenbrier River, where the first 
                        Owen County
                     soldier, Harrison Myers, was killed.16
            
            Andrew's letter dated October 12 is tinged with homesickness: "I suppose times are
                    very hard at home at best I see letters of the people who write to the boys and they complain verry
                    much." He was hoping for a furlough and wrote, "nothing will do me more good than
                    to sit down to the table with you." At the end of that letter he told a dramatic story
                    illustrating the conflict the people of the mountains of western 
                        Virginia
                     experienced during the Civil War.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    I started out on the hills the other day to See if I could find
                                        something good to eat after looking for Some time I found a house and I had a
                                        great desire to go to it after arriving there I found a large family. I Supposed
                                        he was bettin against Union Soldiers but after Conversing with him a while he
                                        did not believe in trying to break up a Government that had protected him in his
                                        youthful days, and at this point we agreed upon he invited me to Stay with him
                                        to dinner the old lady Soon arrived and dinner was Soon ready this was the first
                                        time I was permitted to Sit down to a table we had everything that was good to
                                        eat and what Surprised me was the Ladies Sat down to eat with us it Seemed like
                                        home to me, as it was the first good meal I had eat in three long months
                                    17
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The memories of that scene must have made the year ahead all the more painful for Andrew. His
                    eagerness for a fight weakened. Back home, Susan wrote encouraging letters to her soldier husband
                    and did her part to get others to enlist. She worried, however, that there would be no men left to
                    do the work on the farms. During the summer of 1862 Andrew seemed surprised by her activism.
            
               
                  15 Andrew Jackson to Susan Jackson, July 9, 1861 (private collection of
                        Juliann McGinnis).
               
                  16 Beem, "Military History," 628.
               
                  17 Andrew Jackson to Susan Jackson, October 12, 1861, transcript (original
                        in the private collection of Juliann McGinnis). This letter was transcribed by Juliann McGinnis
                        in 1993.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           you seem to bee in trouble about the men all enlisting so you do not
                                        know how long you will bee a doing so well but I think you can do as well as the
                                        rest of them as to that for they all have to suffer alike on the account of the
                                        men going to the war you say that you are [doing] all that you
                                        can to get the men to go know [now] please tell me how many
                                        you have got to go and then I will know wht your influence is. you said you
                                        would like to bee with me and if I fell you would die bye my side for you think
                                        that fighting for our country is an ho[n]orable cause
                           18
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Susan wrote that she never sat down at the table without thinking of Andrew and wishing he were
                    there, and Andrew assured her that he, too, missed her. He sent her ten dollars and promised more,
                    but he had to pay the sutler. He wanted her to get someone to stay with her and not to go to her
                    father's home. He worried about her leaving the house and farm unattended.19 The letters of Andrew Jackson, more than any others, reflect the deprivation of families
                    left behind by Civil War soldiers.
            Another nine months of misery and the horrors of some of the bloodiest battles of the war led Andrew
                    to write the following letter.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    I to day take my pen to write you afew lines to let you know that I am
                                        not well for I have been in another Battle and I received a slight wound in the
                                        left thigh but it is not dangerous at all but it will keep me in the hospital
                                        the rest of the summer and then I think the fighting will be over untill I am
                                        discharged
                                
                        
                           
                              18 Andrew Jackson to Susan Jackson, August 3, 1862
                                        (private collection of Juliann McGinnis).
                           
                              19
                                        Ibid.; Andrew Jackson to Susan Jackson, June 16,1861 (private
                                        collection of Juliann McGinnis).
                        
                        
                           SIGNATURE OF ANDREW JACKSON
                           
                           Courtesy Juliann McGinnis, 
                                 Covington, Texas
                              .
                        
                        
                        
                                    Dear wife do not give your self any uneasness about my wound for it is
                                        not dangerous at all for the misel that struck me went in but about an inch I
                                        will send the thing that went in to me in this letter to you that you may see
                                    it
                                
                        
                           we was paid off a few days before we started on the march and I
                                    gave 40 dollars to Capt Beem to express to you in the care of J U
                                        Martin and I expect it will be there by the time this gits there
                        
                        
                                    Susan you must excuse me for this short letter for I have no chance
                                        much to write but I will again in afew days
                                
                        
                                    I will say this has been the hardest Battle that has ever been fought
                                        and I was in the thickest of it
                                    20
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Susan Jackson offers one example of how 
                        Owen County
                    's young women reinforced the will of young men and gave them hope. Emerine
                    Hicks may have inspired more men than did her married counterparts. She must have been a lovely
                    girl, as she was much on the minds of several men. John Hunter, for example, wrote her the following
                    letter.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           Friend Emey this afternon affords me time andplesure of riting you a few
                                        lines to let you know how I am getting a long I am well at this time and hope
                                        those few lines will finde you all the same I received yore kinde letter on
                                    the 9 I was truly glad to here from you it braught to my minde
                                        Days ofhapiness days when we ust to greete each other with plesure but alas
                                        those hapy days have fled and this raney afternoon finds me in my tent in the
                                        State of 
                                            Virginia
                                         far from my home and friends while this is the case my hart is with
                                        them I often think of the days you and betsey and I coverd corn to gether I
                                        think I will be back in the spring to help you plant a gane I could come home
                                        this fall if I wanted to I was offered an onerable discharge on account of the
                                        rheumatism but would not have it I want to see a littell more of the world then
                                        I am camming back to my native home home a gane to settell for life and take
                                        some nice littell girl for a wife [providing]
                                    
                              
                                 20 Andrew Jackson to Susan Jackson, April 9,1863
                                            (private collection of Juliann McGinnis). The date on this letter is
                                            probably incorrect. In applying for an army pension, Andrew Jackson listed
                                            the first full day of fighting at Chancellorsville, May 2, 1863, as the date
                                            on which he received his wound. Since the letter describes the wound,
                                            Jackson probably wrote it in early May rather than early April. Andrew
                                            Jackson, Declaration for Invalid Army Pension, December 27,1875 (
                                                Owen County
                                             Public Library). David E. Beem was the sixth of Levi
                                            Beem's twelve children and a grandson of German-born Daniel Beem,
                                            one of the first settlers in 
                                                Owen County
                                            . Nine of Daniel Beem's grandsons fought in the Civil
                                            War, as did nine of his great-grandsons and eight of the men who married his
                                            granddaughters and great-granddaughters. Four of the lot were killed in
                                            battle. David Beem was the first volunteer in 
                                                Owen County
                                            . He served three years, the last two as captain of Company H,
                                            14th Regiment. Eight of his relatives served in the same company, including
                                            his brother Daniel. David E. Beem, Daniel Beem and his
                                            Descendants (
                                                Spencer
                                            , Indiana, 1917), 85–87. The 
                                                Owen County
                                             Public Library, 
                                                Spencer
                                            , Indiana, possesses a copy of this privately published
                                        work.
                           
                                    
                                    I can get her then well Emy I have Nothng strange to rite to you at
                                        this time I did not tell bety how near I come getting shot so I will tell you
                                        and you may tell her the other nite I was out on picket and I herde some thing
                                        making a fus in the wods close by me I raised up on my feete I had my blanket a
                                        round me and as I raised up he shot at me the ball went through my shall but did
                                        not hurt me I shot at him but did not hit him as soon as he shot he fell down I
                                        shot by guess when I shot he run like thunder there has bin several of our boys
                                        kilde in that way I have run several narrow resks but am still on foot I want
                                        you to rite as soon as you get this letter so I will bring my leter to a close
                                        by saying rite soon
                           21
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Emerine, the teenage daughter of Jacob and Anna Beaman Hicks, was a neighbor and friend of John
                    Hunter, and John, in this and subsequent letters, appeals to her to wait for him.22
            
            Vincent Anderson and his brother William H. H. Anderson were two of the three sons of Eli and
                    Elizabeth Payne Anderson from the old Steele neighborhood near Wesley Chapel. They both enrolled in
                    Company B, 21st Indiana (later 1st Heavy Artillery), a unit organized by Gosport's James
                    Grimsley in 1861. They were sent east until the spring of 1862, when they boarded the steamship Constitution and sailed with Benjamin Butler's expedition to 
                        New Orleans
                    . A third son, Benjamin, wounded at Resaca, 
                        Georgia
                    , May 14, 1864, died in the hospital at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    .23 Over thirty years later "Vint" Anderson wrote
                    a series of columns titled "As a Private Saw It, Not as History Records It" for an 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper, the American Tribune. Describing the early days of his
                    service, he recalled several humiliating experiences. 
                  
                     
                        
                           Our first expedition into the enemy's country was from
                                                
                                 Baltimore, Maryland
                              , late in the fall
                                        of 1861. The Government furnished a very excellent shoe to
                                        march in. They were heavy, broad heels and soles, and sewed. My brother and I
                                        had been wearing only such shoes and boots as our shoemaker had made for us.
                                        When we drew those
                                    
                              
                                 21 John A. Hunter to Emerine Hicks, October 10, [no
                                            year] (private collection of Mrs. Edward May, 
                                    Winnebago, Illinois
                                 ). Charles Powell of Pittsboro,
                                            Indiana, in June, 1993, permitted copies to be made of the letters written
                                            to Emerine Hicks and other members of the Hicks family.
                              
                                 22 Charles Powell, interview with the author, 
                                                Spencer
                                            , Indiana, June, 1993.
                              
                                 23 Edith Gray Rattcliffe, untitled manuscript, 1932,
                                            Anderson Family File (
                                                Owen County
                                             Public Library, 
                                                Spencer
                                            , Indiana); Daughters of the American Revolution, Abraham Owen
                                            Chapter, 
                                    
                                                    Owen County
                                                , Indiana, Cemetery Listings (
                                                Spencer
                                            , Indiana, 1983), copy held by the 
                                                Owen County
                                             Public Library; U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, Population
                                            Schedules for 
                                                Owen County
                                            , Indiana. Union forces captured 
                                                New Orleans
                                             in April, 1862, through a joint army-navy operation led by
                                            General Benjamin Butler and Admiral David Farragut. Resaca, 
                                                Georgia
                                            , was the site of a battle in May, 1864, in the Union's 
                                                Atlanta
                                             campaign. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary,
                                            591–92, 691–92.
                           
                                    
                                    large, awkward shoes, just before starting on the march, we went down
                                        into the city and bought us each a pair of cloth shoes and threw away our heavy
                                        shoes, thinking cloth shoes would be much lighter to march in. The result was
                                        that the whole of the bottoms of our feet were blistered on the first
                                        day's march and when the blisters broke, the second day, the skin on
                                        the bottom of our feet all stuck to the woollen stockings we were wearing, and
                                        left us in that condition to march about 150 [?] miles. We
                                        were more than a month getting over this very foolish act.
                           24
                        
                     
                  
               In another column, he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    As soon as I donned my soldier suit I made, like the rest, for the
                                        artist [who] was alive to his business, and who kept some guns and swords to
                                        place in the hands of the soldiers who wished to get their pictures. He was also
                                        an expert in showing us how to take the position of a soldier. When I went to
                                        get my picture taken and he saw I was a private he took a musket with the
                                        bayonet fixed and knelt down and showed me how to form a hollow square out of
                                        myself and resist a cavalry charge. I at once took to his idea and down on one
                                        knee I went, and with the gun and bayonet, as directed, my picture was taken. I
                                        got a dozen of them as soon as I could and took them down to camp, and about the
                                        first one I showed them to was Will Westfall, our closest neighbor boy and my
                                        mess mate all the time I was in the service. When he got hold of one of them he
                                        hollowed out to the boys to "all come here," and when a crowd
                                        had gathered around he showed them that picture of mine and said: "Oh!
                                        hell boys, let us all go home; it is not a bit worth while for any of the rest
                                        of us to go. Just look at Uncle Dudley's picture!"…
                                        It makes a creepy feeling run up and down my back even now to write about the
                                        pictures that I destroyed and got others less fierce to pass around.
                                    25
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            James William McKee enlisted for three years in Company 1,19th Indiana Volunteers in the summer of
                    1861. He had been a soldier but a few weeks when he wrote these lines to his mother: 
                  
                     
                        
                           Dear mother i take pen in hand to rite a fu lines to inform ue that i am
                                        well at present i do hope that these fu lines ma find ue well we ar looking evry
                                        minit to be cold [called] into the field and ifi git did
                                    [killed] i wont ue to rclect [recollect] me i am
                                        agoing to Send u a peter [picture] i want ue to ceepe it til i
                                        com home and i wont ue to
                                    
                              
                                 24 Vint Anderson, "As a Private Saw It, Not
                                            as History Records It," 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             American Tribune, date unknown [1898–1900], in
                                            "Experience of a Private of Company B, 21st. Ind. Vol. Inf. and
                                            1st. Ind. H. A.," scrapbook, p. 1 (
                                                Owen County
                                             Public Library).
                              
                                 25
                                            lbid., March 18, 1900, scrapbook p. 3.
                           
                                    
                                    ansur and rite as sune as u git this i cant rit i wil bring my leter to
                                        a close
                           26
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            A few weeks later James seemed more at ease. He was full of patriotic fervor but already was
                    beginning to feel the pull of problems at home. He needed to be both in the army and on the farm and
                    worried that he could not do enough for his family.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           Dear fother and mother i take my pen in hand to let ue noe that i am wel
                                        at present and hope that thes fu lines may find ue well and injoing god helth
                                        James J oh Albert reseved a leter and their was bad nues in it it sed that Orn
                                        was ded & that he did in henderson Ky it hert most to heir that my por
                                        sister was left alone with a house ful of childern but she shud not sufer ifi
                                        live to git back i wil take car of her and the childern but he dide in a god
                                        cose he will be reicolicted as long as eny of we lives [was?] out and revew last wendsday thier was seventy thosan men their that is that
                                        many soldiers their with their gunes brit new and bienets brit the [y] loked like the [y] cod doo somthing their is three
                                        rigmentes [illegible] that has lad doun ther arms and histed
                                        the union flag on are r [e] bel pole [if] that is so it is the best nues i think that the war will end perty sun but i
                                        dont want it to end until i git in a fite that what is a fite … tel
                                        pap that i sent him ten dolars with captan Robinson and i want to know it
                                        whether he reseved it or not i inten to send som home ever time that i draw i
                                        think that i will send more nex time tell him to ues it and if he never
                                        pa[y]s it back it will be rite becose i dont intend to clir of
                                        his land
                           27
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            The Oren referred to in the opening lines of James's letter was his brother-in-law, Oren
                    Tally, the husband of James's older sister Elizabeth. Oren had enlisted with
                    James's brother Robert McKee in the 31st Indiana. Oren died from measles leaving Elizabeth
                    widowed with the children.28
            
            In a subsequent letter James expressed concern about his parents and promised to help as much as he
                    could by sending money.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    mother i hope thate thes fu lines ma finde you well you wanted som
                                        money to bye you som Cofee withe ande you shall have itejeste as sune as I draw
                                        my muney I will sende you ande pape every sente thate i can I have fore munts
                                        pay a comen to me ande i will sende aboute thirty Dolers ite will [be about]
                                        three wekes or fore till we Draw ande
                                    
                              
                                 26 James William McKee to Lucinda McKee, October
                                            9,1861 (private collection of John Komp, Kewaskum, Wisconsin); John Komp,
                                            Kewaskum, Wisconsin, letter to the author, July 28, 1993.
                              
                                 27 James William McKee to Lucinda McKee, November 22,
                                            1861 (private collection of John Komp).
                              
                                 28 John Komp, Kewaskum, Wisconsin, letter to the
                                            author, July 28, 1993.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              JAMES WILLIAM MCKEE AND HIS SWEETHEART ALMA BENNECT
                              
                              Courtesy John Komp, Kewaskum, 
                                                Wisconsin
                                            .
                           
                                    
                                    then i will have fifty dolars i will sende thirty dolers home and if i
                                        cane i will send mor
                                    29
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Several 
                        Owen County
                     soldiers commented in their writings that they could make more money in the army than
                    at home. Surely that was the case with James. When he reenlisted at the end of his term, the bounty
                    offered to reenlisting veterans may have been the motivation. James was promoted to corporal and
                    eventually to sergeant. He was captured at the Battle of the Wilderness and died in Andersonville
                    Prison, 
                        Georgia
                    .
            A descendant has a ring James made from a ham bone during one of the more tranquil days between
                        engagements.30
            
            John W. Dean enlisted at the same time and in the same company as James McKee. Company I, 19th
                    Indiana Volunteers, went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and then transferred, in August, 1861, to 
                        Washington
                    , where the 19th joined the Army of the Potomac. John's future brother-in-law,
                    James Lawrence Johnson (who would marry John's sister Rhoda Ellen), was a sergeant in the
                    same company.31 John wrote to his sister Emily, aged seventeen, soon after he
                    arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dear sister it is with great pleasure that I take my pen in hand to
                                        rite you a few lines to let you no how we are geting along we are all well out
                                        here and hope these fu lines may find you all enjoying the same blessing the
                                        boys landed hear yesterday we were all glad to see them they wil stay till we
                                        start I gues we have marching order for tomorrow we will get are uniforms in a
                                        few minets I do not yet no whare we wil go to I want you to rite often as you
                                        can I wud like to hear from home every week … 7 want to hear how you
                                        are geting along I want you to do right and remember to tell all the girls to
                                        rite I must close my letter I send my love to you all live right and I will do
                                        the same
                                    32
                                
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     29 James William McKee to Lucinda McKee, undated (private collection
                            of John Komp).
                  
                     30 John Komp, Kewaskum, Wisconsin, letter to the author, July 28,1993.
                            On June 25,1863, the Adjutant General's Office ordered that each soldier
                            reenlisting as a veteran would be entitled to one month's pay in advance and a
                            bounty of $402. William H. H. Terrell, Indiana in the War of
                                Rebellion; Vol. I, Report of the Adjutant General (1869; reprint,
                                Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XLI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1960), 33–34.
                  
                     31 Shirley Henderson, Lakin, Kansas, letter to the author, 1993.
                  
                     32 John Dean to Emily Dean, August 1,1861, transcript (private
                            collection of Shirley Henderson, Lakin, Kansas). The original manuscripts of the letters
                            written by John Dean are in the private collection of Emma Bessie Fiscus, Bayard, Nebraska.
                            Transcriptions of these letters were made by Donna Nelson in 1972. There is no John Dean
                            listed in the Adjutant General's roll for Company I, 19th Indiana Volunteers.
                            However, the roll does include a "John Deem," whose service record
                            coincides with the material in John Dean's correspondence. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, TV, 405.
               
                     He wrote the next day to his fifteen-year-old sister Rhoda.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    We have had marching orders for tomorrow but don't no when we
                                        will get off I am well at present I thought of coming home and seeing you all
                                        before starting but cannot now I received your letters all and was glad to hear
                                        from you and to hear that you were all well and doing well Mary has not answerd
                                        my letter yet I would like to have ben down to your celebration but it was to
                                        far to walk the weather is very warm and dry I would like to have you pictures
                                        … with me but you did not send them up you said gurls was pining away
                                        with greaf I feel sorry for them but can do nothing to comfor them but can give
                                        them my best tell Captain I would like for her to cum up and be our captain
                                        … I must now close I guess you need not rite again if you do direct
                                        your letters to the 19 regiment and they will follow on we will start tomorrow
                                    33
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            "Captain" was the nickname John gave his sister Emily. John, Emily, and Rhoda were
                    three of the children of 
                        Fenton
                     and Elizabeth Mulvane Dean. The family had come to Jefferson Township, 
                        Owen County
                    , from 
                        Coshocton County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1845. Rhoda, the youngest, was born after their arrival.34
            
            Andrew Bush, born May 29,1833, was the son of German born David and Fredericka Bush, who had settled
                    on a farm in Jefferson Township. He married Mary Hilligas not long before he joined the army. Andrew
                    wrote often to Mary during his Civil War service, and many of his letters expressed worries
                    regarding the farm he had left behind. 
                  
                     
                        
                                    You stated in your last letter that you did not know what to do with
                                        the corn I dont know what to say about it but I think that Jacob ought to see to
                                        it and get Somebody to geather it for you and pay it in corn they are lots of
                                        men would be glad to work that way. Get someone if you can and fat some of the
                                        largest of them hogs for fatted pork will be worth somethin.
                                    35
                                
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     33 John Dean to Rhoda Dean, August 2,1861, transcript (original in the
                            private collection of Shirley Henderson).
                  
                     34 Shirley Henderson, Lakin, Kansas, letter to the author, 1993.
                  
                     35 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, October 29, 1862, transcript (private
                            collection of Gary L. Brown, 
                        Montgomery, Alabama
                     ); Gary L. Brown, interviews with
                            the author, 
                                Spencer
                            , Indiana, 1993–1996; Gary L. Brown, Montgomery, Alabama, telephone
                            interview with author, March 1, 1997; Gary L. Brown, letters to the author, November 23,
                            December 31,1993, January 17, May 12,1994, March 3,1997; Mary Miller, Grand Rapids,
                            Minnesota, letter to the author, April 22,1994; Linda Goss, South 
                        Houston, Texas
                     , letter to the author, July 1,1995. The Civil War letters of
                            Andrew Bush were transcribed by Hazel Bush Perry in 1962. The original manuscripts are in
                            the private collection of Gordon Perry, Hampton, Nebraska.
               
                     In his next letter two weeks later he wrote: "I want
                    you to get Jacob White to sell them hogs if he can. When you wright again I want to know all the
                    concerns respecting corn gathering and how you get along with the things in general."36
            
            The war struggled on another year and Andrew continued advising Mary on the farm and financial
                    affairs. 
                  
                     
                        
                                    Wee drawed two months pay last week and us boys gave our money to the
                                        Indiana State Agent; a man that is appointed by the Governor of Indiana to
                                        gather all the money that the Indiana boys wants to Send home and he takes it to 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         and express it from there to wherever directed; the boys directed
                                        ours to John long Samuel sent ten dollars James sent fifty Dol. and I sent
                                        twenty Dollar and our Colonel holds receipts for all that was sent and if it is
                                        lost the State of Indiana is bound to pay for the los; I culd not make out the
                                        names of those you hand money to only the name of Daniel Stantz you can tell me
                                        the names the next letter you right; you wanted to know if you should get any
                                        land Clared I think you had better not for it will only be a bother to you if
                                        you had it Clared. I think that the best thing that you could do would be to
                                        loan out your money out on interest what you have to spare but be Careful what
                                        kind of Security you take.
                                    37
                                
                     
                  
                In another letter he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    I am Hapy to inform you that I am in prety good Health altho I am
                                        almost as bad aflicted with boils and Sours as old Job. I had the ariceiplas on
                                        my right Side which made quite a bad Sour. I hope these few lines may finde you
                                        enjoying good Health. John J Moyer came home last night he is well and harty wee
                                        were glad to see him and allso glad to receive the tobaco that was Sent with him
                                        to us. wee got the paper envelopes and Stamps that was sent to us. The Health of
                                        Samuel is very bad he has had the tiford fevor which brought him down very low
                                        he is not abel to walk any yet but the fevor is broke on him and wee have him
                                        inn our tent with us So that we can tend to him he is Complaining very much this
                                        morning with a pain in the left Shoulder and arm What ails it I cant tell it may
                                        have come from laying on it when he was in the Hospital for he mostly laid on
                                        the left Side.
                                    
                              
                                 36 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, November 11, 1862,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                              
                                 37 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, October 27, 1863,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown). In this letter, Andrew
                                            Bush describes one system used during the war to transmit Hoosier
                                            soldiers' pay back to Indiana. By 1863, another was in operation.
                                            The Indiana Allotment Commission provided each command in the field with a
                                            roll on which each soldier could specify the amount of money he wished to
                                            send home and the name of the person to whom it should be sent. The
                                            paymaster then issued a check on a 
                                                New York
                                             bank for the total amount sent by the men of each company. A
                                            state agent cashed the check and sent on the individual remittances.
                                            Terrell, Indiana in the War of Rebellion,
                                            467–73.
                           
                                    
                                    About the mewls I dont wont you to Sell them to herrod on any Such
                                        terms as you Stated in your letter for I dont think that he would be verry good
                                        pay; if you can traid with Stanley Vanhorn for that forty that lais clost to
                                        John Moody's on any reasonabel terms do it. When I was home he asqued
                                        me fifty dollars to boot between the muel and land. I have been Sorry Since that
                                        I did not take him up on the offer if he will still do that way you ought to
                                        traid for it for I think that is cheap enough at that. About the other piece
                                        that you spoke about I cant tell anything about it you will have to use your own
                                        jugment about it; but be careful about going in debt make the payments far
                                        enough of So that you can Meet them eazily; I will Send you money at the rate
                                        often dollars per month
                                    38
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The Samuel Andrew mentioned was Mary's brother. Samuel and Mary were two of fourteen
                    children born to John and Mary Hilligas, who had come from 
                        Coshocton County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , in the 1850s. Two other Hilligas children, James and John, married into the
                    neighboring 
                        Van
                     Horn family.39
            
            The two letters that follow were written by another 
                        Owen County
                     soldier to his family in 
                        Aurora
                    , Indiana. Elijah Barker was the second of thirteen children of a blacksmith, Hezekiah
                    Barker, and his wife Mary. Elijah left Indiana for the war in a shroud of sorrow. His wife and
                    youngest child had died not long before. Elijah entrusted his three oldest children to his
                    mother-in-law before enlisting. His youngest child, Amanda, was left in the care of his sister,
                    Elizabeth, and her husband, George Johnston. Elizabeth lifted little Amanda up to say good-bye to
                    her father as he prepared to ride off to 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, to join Company D, 3rd Indiana Cavalry. Elijah handed his little girl a
                    half-cent coin, a token of that farewell that is still held by the family.40
            
            Before long, homesickness and boredom had settled over Elijah. He had joined for the duration, but he
                    did not expect the war to last more than a few weeks or months. From 
                        Maryland
                     in December, 1861, he wrote to Elizabeth and George Johnston: 
                  
                     38 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, August 2, 1863, transcript (private
                            collection of Gary L. Brown).
                  
                     39 Gary L. Brown, interviews with and letters to the author,
                            1993–1997 (see footnote 35). After leaving the army at the end of the war, Andrew
                            and Mary had two sons, Uriah and Ira. They lived in 
                                Owen County
                             near Stockton before moving to 
                                Hamilton County
                            , 
                                Nebraska
                            , with several members of the Hilligas family. In 
                                Nebraska
                             three more children, Curtis, Nellie, and Edna, were born. In 1874 grasshoppers
                            destroyed the Bush and Hilligas families' crops. According to family tradition, the
                            settlers survived in their sod homes by hunting antelope for food and burning buffalo chips
                            for warmth. Mary Miller, Grand Rapids, Minnesota, letter to the author, April 22, 1994.
                  
                     40 Glendora White, interviews with the author, 
                                Spencer
                            , Indiana, 1993–1997.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           I find my self seated this morning Pening you a few lines to let you
                                        know that I am well & hope These few lines will find you the same my
                                        horse is very sick I think he will dye their has bin severl Lost his horse the
                                        other day hookers Division is all down her on the river their was a genaral
                                        revew ofsickels Bregade yesterday & I think we Will cross over to
                                        vergina before a Great while & their is no dout but Wee will have a big
                                        battle when Wee cross the rebbles have got 4 or 5 Forts a long the river and they fire at our boats ever once & a
                                        while but haven dun any damage yet & they throw a few shells over But
                                        haven hit any body yet I am still at sickels head quarters Aden with the esscort
                                        & I intend To stay her as long as I can to get shet of standing gard but
                                        if my horse dyes I will hav to fall back To my company wee haven got any Arms
                                        yet except our swords & horse Pistle some of the boys has bought
                                        Revolvers their is hunders & thousans of men in this army that haven a
                                        dollar in 3 days after they arpaid off their is plenty of men
                                        that will pay 1 dollar for a pint of whiskey the most of our boys sent their
                                        money home & some that diden send it home hasen got a doller to bless
                                        their selves with they Gambled it off I sent 70 dollars home
                                        & 10 of that was for Amanda And when this com to hand
                                        I Want you to write to me & let me know if the money com to hand
                                        & let me know how Amanda gets Along I would like very much To see my
                                        children & if I live until next spring I will get a ferlow & Com
                                        home and see all of you I dont know any thing more that will Be interresting to
                                        yu as for war nuse you can see more in the papers then I have got time or space
                                        to write their is more smoke then fire all the time When you write to me direct
                                        your Letter to D. B. Keister Colonel Carter third Ind Caverly 
                                            Washington
                                        
                           
                           41
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            A month later, the "big battle" Elijah had predicted had not taken place, and he
                    described for Elizabeth and George his company's winter quarters.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           I find My self seated a pening you a few lines in ancer to your letter
                                        Which came to hand to day and I was truley glad to her that you and the children
                                        was all Well I am in good health at The present time and I hope these Few lines
                                        will find you as They have me wee ar still down her in marland 45 miles below 
                                            Washington
                                         on the potomac river We have got good log huts built and a wolden
                                        chimley to each one and wee have Got plenty of blankets to keep us warm and
                                        plenty to eat and Not much to do so you can see That wee injoy our selves very
                                        well I have not got a horse yet for I am not shore that I will get one
                                    
                              
                                 41 Elijah Barker to George and Elizabeth Barker
                                            Johnston, December 4, 1861, transcript (original in the private collection
                                            of Glendora White, 
                                                Spencer
                                            , Indiana). The two letters by Elijah Barker that appear in this
                                            collection were transcribed by Vivian Zollinger in February, 1993. General
                                            Daniel Sickles commanded the 2nd Brigade of Joseph Hooker's
                                            division in the Army of the Potomac during this period. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 760.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              ELIJAH BARKER
                              
                              Courtesy Glendora White, 
                                                Spencer
                                            , Indiana.
                           
                                    from the goverment I will know this week whether I will get one or not
                                        if I dont Get one from the goverment I wont buy one untill spring And perhaps
                                        the war will be over by that time I cant say when I will be home but if their is
                                        no fitting to do I will tri and get a ferlow and com home in the spring I Would
                                        like to see Amanda and All the rest of the children But when I think of them I
                                        know they ar as well off as I am Tell Amanda when I com home I will fetch her
                                        some candy I sent 2 likeness home one for Amanda and the other
                                        for the other 3 children I hope they Have com to hand by this
                                        Time wee have bin musterd For pay but I dont know When wee will be paid off But
                                        I suppose about the 12 if the pay roll went in in Time and if
                                        it diden go in in Time wee wont get our money untill next march I was sory to
                                        her that mother marshal was under the weather I hope she will keep well for I
                                        know it is a tast for her to keep the children but they ar better  off then they Would be under a stepmother but when
                                        I com home I think I will marry and settle down If I can get any body to have me
                                        and if they wont have me I am as independent as A hog on ice if I cant stand up
                                        I can lay down I dont know any thing More that will interrest you so I must
                                        close by Wishing you health and hapiness so no more at This time write as often
                                        as you can
                        
                        
                                    
                                        Yours respetfuly
                                    
                                    
                                        E Barker
                                    
                                
                        
                                    you will find inclosed some seeds that came off of a evergreen tree I
                                        want you to plant them I think They will gro in that country it is a butiful
                                        tree and bears A red berey the name is holley
                                    42
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Six months later Elijah died from typhoid at Mansion House Hospital, 
                  Alexandria, Virginia
               , and was buried there in what became the 
                        Alexandria
                     National Cemetery. His children were made wards of his brother-in-law Erastus
                        Marshall.43
            
            In the autumn of 1862 soldier David Johnson was discouraged about the lack of news from home. He was
                    still in his teens when he left 
                        Lafayette
                     Township to enlist in Company H of the 59th. He had counted on his sister, Eliza Ann,
                    to be his link with his home so far away. He wrote to her from northeastern 
                        Mississippi
                     in September to complain.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           Dear Sister it is with much pleasure that I seat my self to let you know
                                        that I am well at this time and I hope when these few lines reaches you they
                                        will find you enjoying the same blessing I have nt got any letters from home yet
                                        and I begin to think you have forgoten me as I have rote three letters home and
                                        have not received any answers yet I want you to rite [illegible] or I will quit riteing to you … I am sitting in a school
                                        house riting on a desk we are a going to take up our quarters here for a while I
                                        dont know how long we are a waiting to be called out every day they are a
                                        fighting at Jacinto now about 6 miles from here we are 12 miles from Corinth dow[n] toward boonville The Cavelery has
                                        brought in some gray backs rebels there is twenty one of them they are in the
                                        school house with us if they dont mind us we will give them the boot there is
                                        two officer among them if the old 59 gets out now they will
                                        get some more gray backs
                                    
                              
                                 42 Elijah Barker to George and Elizabeth Barker
                                            Johnston, January 7, 1862, transcript (original in the private collection of
                                            Glendora White).
                              
                                 43 A descendant, Glendora White, has the coin and the
                                            tintype "likeness" Elijah gave to his daughter Amanda.
                                            Glendora and her daughter made the trip from 
                                                Owen County
                                             to the national cemetery in 
                                    Alexandria, Virginia
                                 , in the summer of 1995. They were the
                                            first descendants to visit Elijah's grave. Glendora White,
                                            interviews with the author, 
                                                Spencer
                                            , Indiana, 1993–1997.
                           
                                    
                                    I heard the 71 was all taking prisoners and paroled and sent home I
                                        want to know whether it is so or not rite Soon as this comes to hand
                           44
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            John Ruble, son of William and Nancy Glaffy Ruble, was born on January 10, 1828, in 
                        Belmont County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . He married Sidney R. Hickman in 1853 and with her had two little girls. After Sidney
                    and the younger daughter died, John married Elizabeth, daughter of Messer and Malinda Pittman
                    Secrest in 1858. When the call for troops came, he joined Company G, 13th Infantry.45
            
            Elizabeth shouldered the burden of keeping the farm going while her husband was away. John worried
                    about her and tried to advise her on matters of farm management. From 
                  Raleigh, North
                    Carolina
               , in 1865, he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    this mor[n]ing finds me well … Jonson has Surenderd to
                                        Shurmon the opinion is that we will soon cum home to hourfamleys this is sum
                                        hilley here I dont think we will Stay here long here I think the fiting is over
                                        corn is planted here and doge wood is in full bloom … If I git to cum
                                        home to Harvist I will be glad you no as much about things as I do as to regard
                                        peace … I will rite as Son as I can we dont git a reglar male no more
                                    46
                                
                     
                  
               In another letter, he responded to news from home.
                  
                     
                        
                           I now Sete my Self down to rite to you to in form you of my helth It is
                                        not good I have had a severe spell with the pils but am improving sum I think if
                                        I was well of them I wod git a long a gain I got your leter yesterday it was the
                                        fourth of July it reminded me of being on the Scrimis line last nite it was
                                        poppop bang all the time I got the fifty cts three stamps one sheat twoo
                                        imvelups all rite you told me marge had a colt I was glad to here of that I was
                                        a fraid we wod loos hur not glad it is a sorl you can pay coble the three
                                        dollars
                                    
                              
                                 44 David Johnson to Eliza Ann Johnson, September 15,
                                            1862, transcript (original in the private collection of Mary Lou Bishop, 
                                                Spencer
                                            , Indiana). This letter was transcribed by Mary Lou Bishop in
                                            1994. The 59th participated in the campaign that led to the fall of Corinth, 
                                                Mississippi
                                            . In the months following that event, the regiment remained in
                                            northeastern 
                                                Mississippi
                                             but shifted their location a number of times. At the time of
                                            David Johnson's letter, the 59th was probably at
                                                    
                                    Rienzi, Mississippi
                                 . Three weeks
                                            later, it was called back to Corinth to defend the city from Confederate
                                            attack. Beem, "Military History," 646. On August 30,1862,
                                            Confederate forces captured much of the 71st Indiana Regiment in the Battle
                                            of 
                                                Richmond
                                             in 
                                                Kentucky
                                            . Ibid., 648.
                              
                                 45 Dorothy Childress, Stilesville, Indiana, telephone
                                            interview with and letters to the author, December, 1992.
                              
                                 46 John Ruble to Elizabeth Ruble, April 16, 1865
                                            (private collection of Dorothy Childress, Stilesville, Indiana).
                           
                                    
                                    now if you pleas I have rote to Mother [illegible] Thomas Hanah all dont cear about riting to them for a while wont to rite home
                                        once a week on till I come home I begin to wont to cum home I dont think it will
                                        be long be fore we will git to come If we live glad day to all in this redge
                                        ment to cum to thare famleys I wont you to He to me how you git along with
                                        harvist all of the things at home I dont wont you to woork at it your sefby no
                                        means I think maby I will have money a nuff to do me at present ceap sum on
                                        hands If ned I will send for sum I have now two Dollars and that you sent me
                                        glad to git it dont send me eney more on till I rite a gain to you I cant rite
                                        much off a leter on a halfove a sheete to you … the boys is very good
                                        to me in sickness dont want to be with a beter compny of privets but not like
                                        home I still rite the boys leters in the compny to thare famleys I thot you was
                                        ceping the woods paster to go to seede by you riting to me you [keep] the cow in the clover field and the sheep do as you think best dont
                                        sell the wheat yet or promis it on till you see then it is time nuff if you can
                                        get grass saved it will feede I think ceape the big meder on till winter then it
                                        will come in good play i think If [I] live i will be sure to
                                        cum home by September I am in hops I will git stout a gain son my bowls dont run
                                        off a gain to much this is a com plaint of the cuntry the citisons die with it
                                        here as well as the soldiers thay coll it very fatle we are in a good place to
                                        camp onley water is ondhandy we caried it nearley three qorters of a mild thare
                                        is a good spring as can be plenty of woter and good
                           47
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               DETAIL FROM A PAGE OF PRINTED STATIONERY USED BY A UNION SOLDIER
               
               Courtesy Rachelle Liddil, Kirklin, Indiana.
            
            
               
                  47 John Ruble to Elizabeth Ruble, July 5, 1865 (private collection of
                        Dorothy Childress). John Ruble was writing from 
                     Raleigh, North
                    Carolina
                  .
            
            
            
                    II "Dont Get Maried Untill the Solgers Comes Home"
                
            
               
                        Owen County
                    's young men held tight to family ties. They worried about their parents and
                    siblings back home. And when mail failed to arrive, they worried that their families had forgotten
                    them. How were the folks back in Indiana making do without their help? Could those at home
                    understand what their husbands and sons and brothers were experiencing? How could they forget to
                    write and tell their men the news from home? Would all the pretty girls wait for the
                    soldiers' return?
            John Troth was the third of eight children born to Nathan and Elsie Mason Troth of 
                        Lafayette
                     Township. He was born in 1837 in 
                        Highland County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . The Troth family moved to 
                        Owen County
                     in 1848.48
            
            On Christmas day, 1861, John wrote to his sister Nancy of life in camp.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    as this is Christmas day I cannot help but think of home and think how
                                        well you and the rest of the Girls and Boys can enjoy yourselves and I just
                                        concluded I would write you a letter and get you to answer it and tell me in
                                        what way you Spent this day I have an idea that you and Hannah are together
                                        Somewhere and just more than cutting up
                                
                        
                                    I have Spent the most of this day in running around through the town
                                        ofRomney and Smoking cigars as big as you please I can tell you that I have got
                                        to be a town gentleman we are just Seeing the finest of times what we hate the
                                        worst is Standing pickets these cold nights it goes pretty tough our Pickets
                                        goes out in Sight of the Secesh pickets Sometimes they Slip up and Shoot our
                                        Boys on their post we have to keep a sharp look out for the rascals
                                
                        
                                    this does not appear Mutch like christmas to me it appears to me like I
                                        can almost See Amos shooting with his ole pistol I expect he is just making it
                                        git and I guess Joe and the rest of the Boys are Shooting fier crackers and like
                                        enough tieing some of them to the cats tails well I guess to tell it the Short
                                        way they are tareing up Jack in general
                                
                        
                                    as it is very near time for me to go on dress parade I will close by
                                        asking you and Hannah to answer this and let me know in what way you Spent this
                                        day I think I can read a letter that you and Hannah gits up with the greatest of
                                        pleasure …
                                
                        
                           The Bugle Sounded for dress parade just as I finished writing on the
                                        other sid and I had to fling every thing and go … I wrote to Amos the
                                        other day and told him that one of our comp. was comeing
                                    
                              
                                 48 Jane Troth Jones, Troth Heritage and
                                                the English Oak (Ellensburg, 
                                                Washington
                                            , 1988). The 
                                                Owen County
                                             Public Library possesses a copy of this privately published
                                            work.
                           
                                    
                                    home on a furlow but he has not Started yet but I think him an two of
                                        the 
                                            Spencer
                                         Boys will Start before long likely tomorrow or next day I told Amos
                                        that I wanted him to Send me two nice dark colored wolen shirts and my watch and
                                        I also want him to send me a pair of half soles and two papers of tacks to nail
                                        them on with I tried to get these thing the other day down in Falmouth but could
                                        not find any I want to half sole my Boots … he can role them up in
                                        the shirts and then stick a card on the shirts with this on it John Troth Comp.
                                        H 14th Ind Regt … well I must hasten for I must go
                                        to work and fry some flap jacks for our supper yesterday I washed myself and
                                        roled up my sleaves and went to work and made up a lot of d[o]ugh and made and fried a lot of twisters or doughnuts or whatever you call them
                                        anyhow they tasted good I expect I can beat both of you Girls cooking
                           49
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            On July 2, 1863, John was killed. He and his friend Isaac Norris, who reportedly carried the flag of
                    the 14th that day, died at the 
                  
                     49 John Troth to Nancy and Hannah Troth, December 25, 1861 (private
                            collection of Eleanor MacDowell, 
                        Lincoln,
                                    Nebraska
                     ).
               
                    
                  JOHN TROTH
                  
                  Courtesy Jane Troth Jones, Ellensburg, 
                                Washington
                            .
               
                     foot of Cemetery Hill in the Battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                    . John's brother Nathan of Company I, 59th Indiana, was also a casualty of the
                    war. He died at 
                        St. Louis
                     from an illness in 1862.50
            
            Six months after John's death a friend wrote the following letter to Elsie Troth: 
                  
                     
                        
                           As a friend of your son John and an old mess mate, I thought that I
                                        would drop you a few lines. …I was a mess mate of John's for
                                        over one year; for pertnear two year; loved him as a brother. He was a true and
                                        trusty friend to me. Myself and brother seen that him and Ike Norrice was buried
                                        as nice as matters would permit at the time. … [He] was a true and patriot soldier and one who gave his life for a gloreys cause
                                        and since the hour of death has arrived may the Christian hope be his support
                                        and some kind angel guide his spirit into the heavenly abodes of tranquility and
                                        peace is the sincere wish of a stranger and a friend. I will close for the
                                        present as I am a stranger to you, I will make myself known. I am a brother to
                                        the Harrolds that live in Patricksburg Jess, Joh, and Frank Harrold and also
                                        Milt that used to live there
                        
                        
                                    Alonzo M. Harrold51
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            Seven of the Harrold brothers of Patricksburg volunteered. Their mother was said to have declared,
                    "I wish I had seven more sons to give to my country." Alonzo and two of his
                    brothers served in Company H of the 14th. Jesse S. Harrold, a buggy maker from 
                        Spencer
                    , was one of the first in 
                        Owen County
                     to sign up. The day 
                        Lincoln
                    's call for volunteers came, he assisted David E. Beem in organizing a meeting
                    to rally the men of 
                        Owen County
                    -men who became Company H of the 14th Regiment.
            Jesse Harrold's story was one of the most remarkable to come out of the experiences of the 
                        Owen County
                     men. He was the only one of the Harrold brothers to be wounded, but he suffered a wound
                    for each of them. On March 23, 1862, he received his first wound. Six months later opposite
                    "Bloody Lane" at 
                        Antietam
                     he received four bullet wounds before he could fall to the ground. One bullet grazed
                    his right thigh; another hit his left elbow; and while he was leaning over holding his arm, another
                    shot hit the back of his head and split the flesh from base to crown. He was carried back to a base
                    hospital and placed in a fence corner, where he lay five days while nurses and surgeons attended to
                    the dead and wounded from both sides. After five days, Jesse was carried to a hospital, where his
                    wounds were dressed and where, immobilized and unable to turn, he lay sixty-four days.
            
               
                  50 Beem, "Military History," 636; Jones, Troth Heritage, 36.
               
                  51 Alonzo M. Harrold to Elise Ann Troth, undated, printed in Jones, Troth Heritage, 129.
            
            
            Lieutenant Harrold by that time, Jesse returned to his regiment and fought again at 
                        Fredericksburg
                     and Chancellorsville. It was during the third day of fighting at Chancellorsville that
                    he received his sixth wound. A ball from a Belgian rifle plowed through his bowels. He was carried
                    nineteen miles in a blanket and on a stretcher to a hospital, where he lay for two months of that
                    hot, flyinfested summer. It was reported in local papers that he had been killed in battle, but he
                    returned home to read about it.
            Jesse was discharged because of his injuries and lived until February 28, 1915. According to a
                    descendant, he claimed his six wounds did not bother him much-except for a stiff elbow.
            After the war, Jesse's brothers, Elbert Frank and Thomas Milton, continued to live in
                    Patricksburg. John R. Harrold was a grocer in 
                        Spencer
                    . Alonzo, William, and John A. Harrold lived and worked in 
                        Terre Haute
                    .52
            
            In the summer of 1862, a middle-aged Indiana militia veteran, James Robinson, recruited a company in
                    his neighborhood in 
                        Lafayette
                     Township. Zachariah Dean recruited another in Jefferson Township. Both companies
                    mustered in on September 20 at 
                        Terre Haute
                     and were attached to the 97th Indiana. Robinson and his wife Jane Oliver, both born in 
                        Ireland
                    , had two daughters and two sons. The family farmed 368 acres a half mile from Vandalia.
                    Both sons served in the Civil War.53 In April, 1863, Captain Robinson wrote of a
                    dress parade at Fort Grissom, 
                        Tennessee
                    , and touched upon the plight of homesick soldiers.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Our Col. had us out on last Sabbath on dress parade without arms. There
                                        were some nice little speeches made and we had our hearts cheered by the
                                        presence of four lovely ladies from the North, all married but one, and that
                                        one, one of the liveliest you would wish to behold. All admired her and I was
                                        glad that I was an old man for it was the means keeping me from trying to start
                                        a rivalry up with a particular favorite of mine in the Regiment, who has
                                        probably caught the wind in his sails and is now scudding along fairly before
                                        the breeze. I hope that they may sail on to the land in the haven of matrimonial
                                        bliss, where they may begin to take in ballast and freight, with little
                                        responsibilities, and sail through the journey of life without ever striking
                                        rock or sand or meeting with tempestuous head winds to sever their
                                    
                              
                                 52 Clifton W. Schmalz, "The Invasion of
                                            Patricksburg in 1860's," 
                                                Clay City
                                            , Indiana, News, March 18,1965; Clifton W.
                                            Schmalz, "Many 
                                                Owen County
                                             Soldiers Made History in Civil War," 
                                                Spencer
                                            
                                            Evening World, April 13, 1965.
                              
                                 53 Clifton W. Schmalz, "Robinson Family of
                                            Vandalia Had Part in Civil War," 
                                                Spencer
                                            
                                            Evening World, November 6, 1964.
                           
                                    
                                    cable of love and affection, until their journey of life is gone
                                        through, the last battle fought and they are safely moored in Heaven.
                                    54
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Thirty-three-year-old Austin Arnett of Morgan Township wrote frequent poignant letters to Emerine
                    Hicks, whose letter from John Hunter appears above. The memories of their attending church, hoeing
                    crops, and visiting friends together sustained Austin in his loneliness. Some of the letters seem to
                    ask her to wait for him. Emerine did wait until after the war to get married, but she did not marry
                    Austin Arnett. In 1867 she married Samuel Stwalley, the husband of her deceased sister Mary
                    Caroline. Austin married Mary E. Watts in Gosport after the war and with her had four children.55
            
            Austin wrote the following letter from 
                        Arkansas
                     in April, 1863, just before his regiment marched to join the Vicksburg campaign.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           kind and lovly friend with pleasure this morning I take the aportunity
                                        of writing to you to let you know that I am well try ly [truly?] hoping to find you injoying the same blessing your letter came to hand
                                        yesturday and was received with pleasure I was glad to hear from you since I
                                        have last writen to you I have traveld over 15 hundred miles
                                        by steam boat we have been on the boat 48 days you may know we
                                        are tired and weared out we landed here yesturday evning and will start for
                                        vicksburg this evning Cannons has rored around on every side of us in the last
                                        few days some men kiled and some wounded but I have come threw all wright I hope
                                        to meet your lovly face once more prospect is gloomy for the present may the
                                        time soon roll a round that we can injoy a few more moon light knights for a
                                        Solders love dont do him much good here I will know light my sigar and soon
                                        afterwards close I have had no knews from Nathan for 8 months
                                        I expect to stand under the flag of my country till my 3 years
                                        is up then I will come home and tell you all the knews I will come to a close by
                                        asking you to write soon So Fare Well for this time
                           56
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            In a subsequent letter, this one sent from 
                        Georgia
                     in 1864, Austin looked forward to leaving the army and asked Emerine to write to him.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Dear] and beloved friend tis with the greatis ofplesure to day that I
                                        am premited to write to you to let you no that I am well ever hoping
                                    
                              
                                 54 James Robinson, letter to the editor, 
                                                Spencer
                                            
                                            
                                    
                                                    Owen County
                                                 Journal, April 15, 1863.
                              
                                 55 Charles Powell, interview with the author, 
                                                Spencer
                                            , Indiana, June, 1993; Charles Powell, Pittsboro, Indiana,
                                            letter to the author, July, 1993; Mary E. Watts Arnett, Declaration for
                                            Widow's Pension, undated, Arnett Family File (
                                                Owen County
                                             Public Library).
                              
                                 56 Austin Arnett to Emerine Hicks, April 11, 1863
                                            (private collection of Mrs. Edward May).
                           
                                    
                                    thes few lines will find you enjoing the same blesing it has bin A
                                        grate while sins I hav heard from you no leters from you for two monts So I dont
                                        no hardly what to write ever thing is quiet in this cuntry we ar camped in A
                                        prety place expect to winter hear or stay till houer time is out the time is
                                        Drawing ny when I expect to return home to stay A while and injoy my self as hav
                                        in past times the time tho pears long and lonsum to me that Iyit hav to stay tho
                                        I then will be free tell Jacob Logans girl that I saw him yeaterday for the
                                        first time in six weeks he has had A hard time A soldiern tho he is well the
                                        regt returnd to its old camp yesturday probly to winter It wont be long now
                                        until the [illegible] viterns will be mustered out that is of the old soldiers
                                        and then you will see youre old bo I saw him about 5 minits A
                                        go Igess you no who it is now I want you to Write to me who is maried in youre
                                        neighborhood you promist you wold tell me in youre next letter that leter is A
                                        long time A coming send youre leters rite along I now will send you some nise
                                        poetry wich plesis me and I hope it will you
                        
                        
                                    
                                        I'm lonsom since he left my Side
                                    
                                    
                                        To brave disease and danger
                                    
                                    
                                        To cross over hill and rolling tide
                                    
                                    
                                        And quarter with the stranger.
                                    
                                    
                                        Tis Just one year ago this night,
                                    
                                    
                                        He took his heart in sadness,
                                    
                                    
                                        But in a week his missive read
                                    
                                    
                                        Well meet again in gladness.
                                    
                                    
                                        I long upon those ruby lips
                                    
                                    
                                        To print the welcome token,
                                    
                                    
                                        Assuring him my sacred vow
                                    
                                    
                                        No more can be broken
                                    
                                    
                                        For I will ever constant be
                                    
                                    
                                        Though life is dark and stormy
                                    
                                    
                                        To him who is so gallant and brave,
                                    
                                    
                              My beau that's in the army. …57
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            A week later, Austin's disappointment in not receiving encouraging words from Emerine
                    clouded his writing. He must have known that she had decided not to wait for him.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Kind and loved friend
                                
                        
                           It is with all my hart and love for you I can say to you that I am glad
                                        whilst I am in this forin land that I am permited to write to you
                                    
                              
                                 57 Austin Arnett to Emerine Hicks, September 27, 1864
                                            (private collection of Mrs. Edward May).
                           
                                    
                                    to let you no that I am well every hopeing with all my hart that this
                                        short letter will find you well my beloved friend I no not hardly what to write
                                        to you to night it has been sow long since I have heard from you I allmost think
                                        sometimes that you have forgotten me I saw Jacob Logan to day he told me that he
                                        got a letter from his girl it appears to me if he can git [a] letter I could I am afraid you do not write them letters in the army is all the
                                        soldiers satisfaction for after we git home we do not nead them please send them
                                        along you have a good chance to write I stil have the last letter I got from you
                                        I keep it to remember you please send me an other for it is about wore out I
                                        would all most give any thing in the wourld to be in your neaghborhood and to be
                                        with you a fewe days though you are to far away though may the time soon come
                                        when I can meete you with my friends as I onced have in that good old country if
                                        I live it will not be long til my time will be out and then I will be at home I
                                        will be at home this winter and then the first big meeting at Vandaily I am
                                        comming down to say a week I do not think I will be soldier any more after my
                                        time is out I think I have done enough at least I am tired of soldie [ring]
                                        for a man soldiering in field searvice his life is in danger every
                                        minute sou I want to enjoy myself some among my friends the night is passin away
                                        and I will soon have to close my short letter please write to me give me all the
                                        news farewell
                           58
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  58 Austin Arnett to Emerine Hicks, October 7, 1864 (private collection of
                        Mrs. Edward May).
            
            
               ENVELOPE ADDRESSED TO EMERINE HICKS BY AUSTIN ARNETT
               
               Courtesy Mrs. Edward May, 
                     Winnebago,
                                Illinois
                  .
            
            
            Emerine Hicks was a popular girl, and Austin Arnett and John Hunter were not the only soldiers
                    writing to her. Another man, William Loser, wrote from 
                        New Orleans
                     in 1865.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Miss Emerine It is with much pleasure that I shall attempt to write you
                                        a few lines to informe you how I am getting along …it has bin some
                                        time since I last heard from [you] and I thought that I would write you a few
                                        lines to see if you would answer them I dont know but what I am writing to a
                                        married woman now but it is no diferenc if I am if you are you must tell me how
                                        you and your Old man is a getting along well I will quit on that subject for
                                        fear I may insult you well I will quit a while now and eat a little peace of pie
                                        and then I will finish well I will begin I feel very much refreshed well I would
                                        like to be at home now I know that I would see a good time on the 4th of July
                                        you must write and tell me what kind of times you had I hav not received any
                                        letters from Bud or Parke for a long time I dont know what is the reason well I
                                        will bring my letter to a close by asking you to write soon … I am
                                        sorry to tell you that I have no stamps but is so
                                    59
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            In a letter dated June 15, 1864, from 
                  Huntsville,
                            Alabama
               , an unknown correspondent sent
                    apologies to Emerine for his behavior on a recent furlough. It is unclear which of her suitors wrote
                    the letter, but his joy in being home for a visit seems to have overrun his manners. Back with his
                    company, sober and sorry, he apologized to Emerine in his best form.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Respected Miss
                                
                        
                                    It is with pleasure that I seat my self to write you a few lines and
                                        ever hoping I may Rec. a few in Return.
                                
                        
                           I am enjoying a reasonable portion of health at the present time ever
                                        hopeing you are enjoying the same Blessing I have writen To you sence I left
                                        home and no answer this will bee the last lines to you unless answered When I
                                        last paid you a visit I didnt show you the Respect that I should of done I now
                                        ask pardon of you for my Conduct I expect to be out of the service before long
                                        then I intend on paying you Another visit if agreable with you a furloughed
                                        soldier is very wild when he has But a short time to Be at home so I hope that
                                        we may me[et] again at the same church house in A Time of
                                        peace when Rebellion will Be no more we can all Return home to enjoy ourselves
                                        among our friends where our minds will all Be settled once more.
                           60
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  59 William Loser to Emerine Hicks, July 1, 1865 (private collection of
                        Mrs. Edward May).
               
                  60 Unknown soldier to Emerine Hicks, June 15, 1864 (private collection of
                        Mrs. Edward May).
            
            
            In still another letter to Emerine, John Hunter asked her to write and expressed his hope that he
                    would soon return to Indiana.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dear Emey it is with pleasure that I seete my self this afternoon to
                                        pen you a few lines to let you know how I am getting a long I am well at this
                                        time and hope those few lines will finde you the same it has bin a long time
                                        since I herd from you and I have thought can it be that those whom my affections
                                        was placed on had forgoten me can it be there has not ben a day since I left you
                                        but my minde followed back to past pleasures when we Enjoyed Each others society
                                        but those days have fled and all that cheers me now is that the day is not far
                                        Distent when I will return a gane to my native lande to meete those I love I
                                        received a letter from home since I lefte Camp Morton I was glad to here from
                                        home it stated that postage had to be paid on my letters before you could take
                                        them out of the office if this is the case I Donte blame you for not riting Our
                                        officers tolde us the letters went free I hate it bad anough for I sente
                                        Elisabeth one and Did not get any ansure I donte blame her a bit tell her for me
                                        I aske her parden I will pay the postage on the next one I rite tell her I have
                                        got that letter she sent to me yet I have red it more than fifty times I caried
                                        it with me on the field of battell where the balls flew thick as hale and I am
                                        living yet awaiting to give them an other chance to shoote at me a gane and then
                                        I am comming home tell Betty I have not for gotten her yet nor never Do I
                                        Exspect two if I should live here three years tell her I think I will be back in
                                        sicks months three of them is gon give my love to Nathan and billey and all the
                                        rest of the famaly and take a big share yore self
                                    61
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            In a final letter, John Hunter used light-hearted language but hinted at a fundamental concern shared
                    by soldiers.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           Emey you must not hug the boys two hard I think the boys will all be gon
                                        soon I hope thay will all go dont get maried untill the solgers comes home and
                                        you may have my cosin Levi. Emy rite Levi a leter will you he oftimes talks a
                                        bout you I think the girls will do well to wait untill the solgers [c]omes home
                           62
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  61 John Hunter to Emerine Hicks, undated (private collection of Mrs.
                        Edward May). Nathan and "Billey" were Emerine's brothers, Nathaniel
                        Collins Hicks and William Martin Hicks. Charles Powell, interview with the author, 
                            Spencer
                        , Indiana, June, 1993; Charles Powell, Pittsboro, Indiana, letter to the author,
                        July, 1993.
               
                  62 John Hunter to Emerine Hicks, undated (private collection of Mrs.
                        Edward May).
            
            
            
                    III "We Have Dun Sum Hard Marching"
                
            They may have been raised on hard work and meager comforts, but nothing in the upbringing of 
                        Owen County
                    's young men prepared them for the terror, exhaustion, and loneliness they
                    experienced in the war.
            By January, 1862, William F. Williams, Jr., was seeing more of the country than he ever dreamed he
                    would see. He and four of his brothers served in the Union Army. William joined Company I of the
                    19th Regiment, Daniel and Josiah were in the 97th, and John W. was in the 13th 
                        Michigan
                     Cavalry. The youngest brother James also enlisted. John was killed in the campaign
                    leading to the Second Battle of Bull Run in August, 1862. He and a cousin by the name of Jean joined
                    the cavalry together and died together.63
            
            While stationed at Fort Craig, near 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., William wrote to his neighbor, James Martin, and described his stay in the
                    capital as if he were a sightseeing tourist.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           Mr James Martin as I often have thought of yew since I levt so this
                                        morning I thought I would drop yew a few lines to let yew now how I am a geting
                                        a long in this un friendly world this Can be called a un friendly world now more
                                        evin mor than of former days for wee dont now here what day or hour we will fall
                                        in the hands of the rebels or be shot on our post but wee must look [to]
                                        the great ruler of all nations above & be low al tho we to
                                        often fail to dew so we are still at Forte Craig where wee have bin for
                                    about 2 months we have bin a looking to leave for a long time but
                                        this is a uncertain busness Their is a strong Talk now of moving on to bull run
                                        where we will or not I cant say when we do take that place we soon mind them up
                                        well Jim the boys & my self are all in good health & I do hope
                                        that those lines will find yew all enjoying the same blesing well a litel about
                                        our soldering we drill all the good wether & stand Picket evry 3
                                        weeks we stay out 2 days & nights withe
                                        out a wink of sleep That is a hardjobe butjim wee are all a geting fat our grub
                                        is not very good we have pork & beaf & beans cofey sugar rice
                                        bred some few potatoes we are in cite of 
                                            Washington City
                                         wee go over evry 2 or three weeks I have bin in
                                        the white house & seen oldAB Lincon & I have bin in the capital
                                        of the U S & I have bin in the patent ofice & seen Gen George
                                        Washingtons uniform it looked very Comon to what the oficers has now I think
                                        that their is to much Pride taken now for I think that 
                                            Washington
                                         was as good as eny of our oficers he wore a Buck skin uniform
                                        & a Comon sword Their is to meny men a geting rich of This war &
                                        some of them wouldnt Care if it would last 25 years we
                                    
                              
                                 63 John W. Williams, interview with the author, 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Indiana, October, 1993.
                           
                                    
                                    have just got Payed off a gain we got 26[.]00 each we
                                        can make more Money here now than eny place els but it is hard mater to keep it
                                        for wee get tired of are grub & wee spend it free for pies &
                                        cakes & such things we have to pay 15 cts for a pie
                                        & other things in a cording So James I have bin in one fight at lewins
                                        vill The time L Goodwin was taken Prison we had 7 killed
                                        & wounded & we killed 47 of Them for we have
                                        seen their graves
                           64
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            John W. Dean, in his letter dated February 19, 1862, described to his parents a tapestry of events
                    while putting the best face possible on conditions at Fort Craig in 
                        Washington
                    .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           Dear Father and Mother I take my pen in hand to write you a few lines to
                                        let you know how i am geting along I am well and harty as ever and hope when
                                        these few lines arrive they will find you all well I have notheing of importance
                                        to write at the present the boys are all well and harty and in good spirits
                                        health is as good as could be expected the weather is very disagreeable and
                                        [h]as bin for sum time the mud is nee keep [deep] and geting worse I received your letter yesterday and was glad to hear from you
                                        also Mothers the other day and was gladly received and one from Mary and Em and
                                        Rhoda which I have not had the opportunity of answering yet but will as quick as
                                        I [can. I can] tell you nothing about the war more than you
                                        all readdy no you get the news as quick as we do I guess our men have gained
                                        sevrel great victorys within the last few days and are still pushing onward our
                                        men taking Ft. Donalson with fifteen thousand prisoners and thirty pieces
                                        ofartilery field pices and twenty stationery cannon besides a large amount of
                                        guns and ammunition besides this great victory they have gained sevrel others
                                        and have taken all ready more prinors that they no what to do with a few more
                                        sutch victorys as Fort donalson and the rebbels will have to give up the chase I
                                        had forgot beside the prisnors at Fort Donalson we captured three or fore rebbel
                                        generals onejeneral Johnson and Buckner the names of the others I have not herd
                                        yet
                           65
                                    you wrote that was a great deal of sickness
                                    
                              
                                 64 William F. Williams to James Martin, January 10,
                                            1862 (private collection of John Williams family, 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Indiana). 
                                    Lewinsville, Virginia
                                 , was the site of the 19th
                                            Regiment's first encounter with the enemy. On September 11,1861,
                                            five companies of the 19th, including Williams's Company I,
                                            participated in a reconnaissance toward Lewinsville. On their return to
                                            camp, the party was attacked by a Confederate force commanded by Colonel J.
                                            E. B. Stuart. Nolan, The Iron Brigade, 23.
                              
                                 65 Fort Donelson, on the Cumberland
                                            River in 
                                                Tennessee
                                            , fell to Union forces commanded by Ulysses S. Grant on February
                                            16,1862, a victory that set the stage for the Union push down the 
                                                Mississippi
                                             to Vicksburg. Confederate General Simon B. Buckner surrendered
                                            the fort after John Floyd and Gideon Pillow, the fort's commander
                                            and second-in-command, fled. There was a General Johnson-Bushrod R.
                                            Johnson-at Fort Donelson, but he also escaped before the fort's
                                            surrender. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary,
                                            394–97, 437.
                           
                                    
                                    in the camp at gosport I was sorry to hear it I suppose they have gone
                                        to Cantuckey before now they will find out something about soldiering before
                                        long if I am not mistaken we have bin out in picket once since I wrote to you
                                        last and have a good time of it the mud was verry deep and tiersum walking but
                                        we did not mind that we would rather go on picket than to stay in camp tis not
                                        so hard on us and we can so more from when we get out and can get the fresh air
                                        Mother wanted to no how we slep when we go out on picket well I will tell you we
                                        always take our blankets and oil cloths with us we start out in the morning and
                                        get there against 12 o-clo [o'clock] then we divide the Reg. one half goes out on post the first night and
                                        the other half lays on reserve the plase where the reserve stays is in the pine
                                        woods or there is pine all around us it has bin cut down about one hundred yards
                                        and tents made of it it make the best kind of tents to build it up in the form
                                        of a brush heap we have plenty wood and can keep warm we bild up a big fier in
                                        the middle of our tent and lay all around the fire the next day we go out on
                                        post and the others comes in and stays on the reserve until we get relieved by
                                        another reg. the out post are about one mile from the reserve …if we
                                        are attackted while on post by the enemy to fier up on them and then if they are
                                        to strong for us to fall back to the reserve and then give them thunder we was
                                        out 4 days the last time … and bill and me went
                                        over the line about a mile to an old [secesh] farmers and got
                                        our brakfast and he gave us sum cabage to big heads as big as a half bushel we
                                        took them up to our post and biled them and had a good mess you wanted to no
                                        whether we had got that barrel of butter and appels that was sent to us we have
                                        not seen nor herd of them nor dont expect to we still are plenty to eat drink
                                        and ware well I wont no of anything els to write it is raining today as quick as
                                        the weather gets good and the roads drys up we will make forward move but I cant
                                        tell when that will be so as I am out of anything more to write I will close by
                                        asking you to write soon give my love to all the friends and take a share
                                        yorselves write soon
                           66
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Enclosed with John Dean's letter was one dated a month later from his friend Albert B.
                    Kelley to John's brother Solomon. Kelley was a neighbor who had grown up with John and
                    enlisted with him in Company I, 19th Regiment.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           Dear Friend As John was writing I thought I would write a few lines and
                                        put in his letter … Well Sol we have been a soldiering old fashioned
                                        for the 1st 2 weeks. We have been on the
                                        march for the last 2 weeks and are now in 2 mile and a half of Fort Craig the first plase we
                                    
                              
                                 66 John Dean to 
                                                Fenton
                                             and Elizabeth Dean, February 19,1862, transcript (private
                                            collection of Shirley Henderson).
                           
                                    
                                    started for Sentersville [Centreville, Va.] we got
                                        one mile on the other side of [illegible word] and put up for
                                        the night and we had not ben stayed long when the word came back that
                                        sentersville and Manassas was [illegible] and didnt belive it
                                        at first but the next day we was bound to belive it for I saw men that ben
                                        there
                           61
                                    we staid there for 4 days and then we was ordered
                                        back to Alexander to go on a fleet we marched back there in the rain and ard as
                                        it could pore down all day and night we stayd there that night in about 2
                                        miles of Alexander and until noon the next days when we was ordered
                                        back to the old camp at Fort Craig where we staid 2 days and
                                        nights then we was order out … and now we are laying about 3 miles west of Alexander wateing for the boats I think it is a shore
                                        thing this time there is a lot of troops gone and a going all the time well Sol
                                        you must do the best you can and write to us as often as you can I expect that
                                        we will have a bad chance to write I am keen for the trip for I am tired of
                                        staying in one county so long me and John is a bunking together we got tired and
                                        mad the other night and fell out and lay by the side of the road Sol give my
                                        best wishes to all the famly and take the same yourself
                           68
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            In August John W. Dean was killed at 
                  Gainesville,
                            Virginia
               . Comrades hastily interred his
                    body in a battlefield grave, and years later, when remains were removed to cemeteries, the body
                    could not be identified. He may be one of the 2,111 unknowns in Arlington National Cemetery. A
                    massive granite sarcophagus erected by the 
                        United States
                     government in 1866 surmounts a vault containing the remains of these Civil War
                    unknowns, the first dead interred in the cemetery.69
            
            John Dean's family consisted of his parents, 
                        Fenton
                     and Elizabeth Mulvane Dean, his brother Solomon, and five sisters. Like many families
                    who settled in Jefferson Township in the 1840s and 1850s, they came to 
                        Owen County
                     as part of a migration from 
                        Coshocton County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . When fifty-one-year-old 
                        Fenton
                     Dean received word of young John's death, he signed up for a three year term
                    in the army. He wanted to finish the job his son had begun. A few weeks into his 
                  
                     67 Kelley probably referred to the Confederate withdrawal from
                            northern 
                                Virginia
                             in March, 1862. In response to this Confederate move, George B. McClellan
                            ordered an advance on Centreville, 
                                Leesburg
                            , and Manassas. Kelley and the rest of the 19th Indiana participated in that
                            advance. Nolan, The Iron Brigade, 44.
                  
                     68 Albert B. Kelley to Solomon Dean, March 22, 1862, transcript
                            (private collection of Shirley Henderson). The original manuscript of this letter is in the
                            private collection of Emma Bessie Fiscus. The transcript was made by Donna Nelson in 1972.
                            In this letter, Kelley described some of the preparations for George B. McClellan's
                            campaign on the York Penninsula. In the end, Kelley and the 19th Indiana did not participate
                            in that campaign. They remained in northern 
                                Virginia
                             and served in the force left behind to defend 
                                Washington
                            , D. C. Nolan, The Iron Brigade, 44.
                  
                     69 Earl W. Zeig, 
                                United States
                             Army Memorial Affairs Agency, to Shirley Henderson, September 25, 1972 (private
                            collection of Shirley Henderson).
               
                    
                    
                  FENTON DEAN
                  
                  Courtesy Shirley Henderson, Lakin, Kansas.
                term of service he contracted dysentery and was hospitalized at 
                        Memphis
                    . He eventually received a discharge. He lived another thirteen years plagued with the
                    disease and with the disappointment of not having avenged his son's death.70
            
            A day book penned by Private Daniel Williams described the journey of the 97th Regiment from
                    west-central Indiana to 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               . The men of the regiment gathered at 
                        Terre Haute
                     where they boarded a train for 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Daniel reported that "the chimneys 
                  
                     70 Shirley Henderson, Lakin, Kansas, letter to the author,
                        1992.
               
                     of the locommotive blew smoke and threw cinders in our faces
                    all the way." Camp Morton, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was 
                  
                     
                        
                           a very nice place …while there part of the time we did not
                                        get enough to eat …drilled some every day …received
                                        marching orders for Louisville Ky we drew three days rations packed and cooked
                                        the night of the 20th …all got on the cars and
                                        arrived at 
                                            Jeffersonville
                                         Ind. on the evening of the 21 Oct
                           71
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            The men crossed the Ohio River to 
                        Louisville
                    , where they boarded the steamboat Mary Miller. Daniel described his
                    accommodations on the boat.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Our Co. was put below where the mules all had been crowded the odorous
                                        smell from the mules the filth of the boat made it a disagreeable place to stay
                                        but soldiers has a hard time once and a while …What a sight to see
                                        how we are piled around here in the boat some laying at the heels of the mules
                                        trying to sleep but the long eared animals keep such an awful kicking (for they
                                        are crowed too) that no on can sleep very good.
                                    72
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Travel by overloaded riverboat was hazardous. Repeatedly the men had to go ashore to lighten the load
                    when the boat ran aground on shallows and snags. Daniel described sights along the
                    Ohio and Mississippi rivers. At times he seemed overcome
                    by the natural beauty of the river. Twice he described "lovely females" waving
                    their handkerchiefs from shore while they passed.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           Nov. 15. Daylight found us on our way and we soon came in sight of that
                                        well fortified place Fort Pillow which the rebels had once possessions of on the
                                        Tenn. side, but was taken possession of by our Government after a desperate
                                        resistance by the enemy. There is a few federal soldiers now stationed. Below
                                        Fort Pillow in a very high bluff is the ruins of 
                                            Randolph
                                         burnt by the [federal] troops at the time of
                                        taking Fort Pillow. A little before sundown we landed at the wharf of 
                                            Memphis
                                        , the place of our journey. We where all glad on[c]e more to get our
                                        feet on land again, for we where all very tired riding piled up
                                    
                              
                                 71 Diary of Daniel Williams, no date, transcript, pp.
                                            1–2 (original manuscript in private collection of William Jean,
                                            Worthington, Indiana). The transcript was made by Ann Vandevanter Hamilton.
                                            This document is partly a diary and partly a memoir. Williams appears to
                                            have produced the document after the Civil War by copying a diary kept
                                            during the time of his service and adding additional commentary and
                                            background information. In the passage quoted here, Williams recalls his
                                            company's journey to 
                                                Louisville
                                             in the early days of his service. Later, he appears to begin
                                            quoting directly the diary he kept in the field.
                              
                                 72
                                            Ibid., no date, pp. 4–5.
                           
                                    
                                    the way we was on the boat. …73
                                    Nov. 16 A beautiful morning the weather is most
                                        delightful, warm and pleasant. … Several of our Co. boys was taken
                                        from the boat to the city hospital at 
                                            Memphis
                                        . A Soldier belonging to Co. B 97 Regt. by the
                                        name of Meek accidently shot himself very badly in both hands while on guard. He
                                        was discharged. …Nov. 17…it is a bad day
                                        for it is raining and very disagreeable under foot, and our old tents leaks very
                                        bad they never was any account therefore our Col. would never receipt for them
                                        we have done nothing since we came here but eat & drank.
                                    …[Nov.] 21. Today we received intelligence of the death of
                                        an esteemed young soldier James G. Starnes who died at the General Hospital in 
                                            Memphis
                                         of pneumonia and measles. We [he] was intered
                                        this evening. The health of the Regt. is but poorly. … [Nov.]
                                    23[.]… It appears that 
                                            Memphis
                                         is at this time a destroyed city. She has at this time (and to her
                                        sorrow) the 8th 
                                            Missouri
                                         Inft. Regt. acting as provost guards, and they are burning the city
                                        up by degrees. Sometimes five and six houses will be fired of a night by then
                                        (and they generally burn to the ground). A great many is left in suffering
                                        conditions no doubt I am ashamed to say that our whole Reg. by detail are
                                        guarding the property of traitors and have been ever since we have been here in
                                        this rebel city. Two or three soldiers is stationed at nearly every house
                                        because …the owners declare that they are loyal and when our army is
                                        gone they are the worst traitors there is.
                           74
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Daniel continued his daily entries as the 97th left the 
                        Memphis
                     area and marched south into 
                        Mississippi
                    . More houses and one fine church were burned. He told of slaves leaving their masters
                    and joining the Union march. Finally, on November 28, the men of Daniel's unit prepared for
                    an attack. He described an interesting turn of events.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           the artillery was stationed in an upen field … We had a good
                                        position for an attack, the men appeared all cool and deliberate. We all
                                        expected and attack this being the first time the 97 was ever
                                        formed into line for battle … no attack being made we stacked our
                                        arms and the boys began serching around for something (as they always do) and
                                        behold they came upon two full barles of molasses hid in a deep ravine in an old
                                        field and they soon bounced it and carried it to the top of the hill away went
                                        the head and we soon was into it up to our elbows after we had got and eat what
                                        we wanted, the boys all had a
                                    
                              
                                 73 Forts Pillow and 
                                                Randolph
                                             were two of a string of installations maintained by Confederate
                                            forces on the Mississippi River in 
                                                Tennessee
                                            . Union forces took these forts in early June, 1862, on their
                                            way to securing all of western 
                                                Tennessee
                                            . Thomas L. Connelly, Civil War 
                                                    Tennessee
                                                : Battles and Leaders (
                                                Knoxville
                                            , Tenn., 1979), 16, 51.
                              
                                 74 Diary of Daniel Williams, November
                                            15–23, 1862, pp. 5–12.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              JOSIAH WILLIAMS, BROTHER OF DANIEL WILLIAMS AND A PRIVATE IN COMPANY F, 97TH REGIMENT
                              
                              Courtesy John W. Williams, 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Indiana.
                           
                                    time in cleaning the molasses from their mustatches and long beards.
                                        …traveling 13 miles and encamped on Pegion Roast in the bottom we
                                        have a strong pickett out tonight. We rather expect an attact tonight therefore
                                        our cannon is planted and we are ordered to sleep on our arms, the cavalry are
                                        several miles in the advance. A good many of our boys gave out today. Several
                                        where taken prisiners belonging to some other Regts.
                           75
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Daniel's day book entries grew increasingly negative. In northern 
                        Mississippi
                     he described very poor country and depleted soil. A torrential rain flooded his tent.
                    And everywhere he looked he saw suffering. "The troops are also causing great distress with
                    the women and children for they are firing all the buildings left. Women and children
                        crying."76 Daniel's unit camped near the
                        Tallahatchie River
                    
                  
                     75
                            Ibid., November 28, 1862, pp. 13–14.
                  
                     76
                            Ibid., November 30-December 1, 1862, pp. 15–16.
               
                     at a little town named Wyatt. Daniel found Wyatt to be a
                    desolate place, "perfectly destroyed and robed of every thing, the country here is awful
                    rough and yellow knobs. A man of good sense would not live here."77 His
                    spirits lifted briefly on December 7, but weariness soon returned.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           We received orders last night to have our guns all c[I]eaned up nice, hands washed and head combed and breeches legs outside our boots
                                        neatly brushed on the Seventh for Gen. Grant and Staff was announced to inspect
                                        the Corps under Sherman. Morning arrived and we was all fixed up the best we
                                        could. Shoulder straps shine quite brilliant on the occasion so we all ourRegt,
                                        alligned ourselves neatly at parade rest when Gen. Grant made his appearance on
                                        horseback with hat off and rode along our lines without saying a word. We
                                        expected to hear something from him, but we where dispointed … We
                                        would all love for this war to come to a close. The soldiers is getting tired of
                                        war and of the tented field.
                           78
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            While marching through 
                        Louisiana
                    , brothers Vint and Will Anderson of the 1st Heavy Artillery were unable to keep up with
                    their company through the wet terrain and fell back. In his memoirs Vint recalled a poignant scene
                    from that day.
            
                    
                        As we went back through 
                                Franklin
                             we were drunk, or the most of us had joined our Captain and if not drunk were
                            overflowing. It was "surging whiskey" we had got hold of and as we went
                            back through 
                                Franklin
                            , we were most of us astride our long guns our captain as well as the rest as he
                            was too full to ride his horse and had to be held on the cannon to keep him from falling
                            off, we were all holding on to each other and swinging our bodies first to one side and then
                            the other. Singing as best we could.
                    
                    
                        As we were passing close by a dwelling in the above fix, reeling and singing I
                            caught the eye of one of those bright and beautiful women of the south that makes a
                            fellow's gizzard flop every time a man thinks of them even though they were ardent
                            rebels. I caught her eye and she looked so sad and beautiful; she made such an impression on
                            me that it seems but yesterday, although old hime has ticked off thirty-seven years. Just as
                            we got up in front of her I caught her eye again and she threw up her hands to her face and
                            dropped back. I think she would have fallen but for another woman-a mother, perhaps-caught
                            her and pushed the door to. I was sobered and my song was ended at once, and I have often
                            wondered what caused that sudden burst of
                        
                     
                        77
                                Ibid., December 2, 1862, p. 16.
                     
                        78
                                Ibid., December 7, 1862, p. 18.
                  
                        
                        grief. Perhaps it was the thought that in that cruel war she had lost a brother or
                            perhaps a lover, but we shall never know and all is mere speculation.
                        79
                    
                
            Andrew Bush, in his letters to his wife Mary, also wrote of life on the march. In October, 1862, he
                    described a hard journey through 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           I have just arrived here [Camp Jewett, 
                                        Kentucky
                                    ] yesterday evning in this Camp from a march of a hundred
                                        miles. … Some of the boys suffered very much with there feet and a
                                        good many of them got sick on the road it snowed prety hard on Saturday night
                                        and wee had to lay all night in the snow on the banks of Salt
                                        river. Some of the boys suffered very much … there was
                                        only one boy in our regiment that didnt give out and that was Jacob Niheart he
                                        is tufas a Mull.
                           80
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Several weeks later, on November 11, he told of further hardships.
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           I am on the way to Collumbus [
                                        Kentucky
                                    ] on the Mississippi River I am at the
                                        present time about ten miles below 
                                            Evansville
                                         on the boat Betty Gilmore. We left 
                                            Louisville
                                         last Sunday morning wee generally leave on Sunday or get marching
                                        orders on Sunday and that is all the way that I know that when Sunday comes
                                        theze times. I have got an aw full bad cold at this time otherwise I am well I
                                        have only slept under shelter four nights since wee left camp Morton. They are a
                                        good many of our boys sick at this time wee only number forty eight men officers
                                        and all that is fit for cervis the rest they left a[t] louisville Hospital. Old Blake Coan is in the hospital an Sam is not well but
                                        he is with us. It is pretty cold at night at present but I sleep prety ware.
                                        Jacob Niheart sleeps with me and by good management wee have got three blankets
                                        between us. little Jacob is the best boy in the Regiment without any exceptions
                                        what ever.
                           81
                        
                     
                  
                Six days later he wrote again, this time from 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    This note leaves us in good health and I hope they may finde you the
                                        Same. I am here at 
                                            Memphis
                                         on the Mississippi river. Wee expect to go to
                                        Hollow Springs in the State of 
                                            Mississippi
                                         tonight or tommorrow if nothing happens between now and tommorrow
                                        morning. I am getting very tired of riding on these old Steam boats. Wee were
                                        six
                                    
                              
                                 79 Vint Anderson, "As a Private Saw
                                            It," scrapbook p. 24.
                              
                                 80 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, October 29, 1862,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                              
                                 81 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, November 11, 1862,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                           
                                    
                                    days and nights going from louisville to this town Some Eight Hundred
                                        miles. James is well but Sam is not very well he has panes in his legs. I have
                                        not time to write much as present. Tell old man Niheart that Jacob is well and
                                        harty I expect wee will be sent to Vixburg in two or three weeks all of western
                                        troops are going to concentrate there to take that town. Bee of good cheer I
                                        must quit writing for they are calling me to leave the boat. So good by Molly
                                    82
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            On November 22 his letter home reported frost and falling leaves.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           the boys are busy gathering them [leaves] up to put in
                                        our tent to sleep on they make our bed feel prety Soft. Wee have exceedingly
                                        good bed Steds to sleep on [they never] kneed making up nor
                                        the cords never gets Slack. Wee have thirteen in our family all boys and all
                                        Sleep in the one bed. Wee fus a little Sometimes about our blankets but that
                                        aint nothing Strange here wee have all kinds of time.
                           83
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Sickness plagued Andrew's friends, and he tried to keep the folks at home informed. On
                    January 20, 1863, he wrote from 
                        Tennessee
                    : 
                  
                     
                        
                           this note leaves me in good health hopeing this may finde you the Same
                                        and all the friends in good health; the weather to-day is nice and warm and evry
                                        thing has the appearance of Spring; wee have had some prety bad wether here for
                                        the last few days which made it bad on the Soldiers; about two seeks
                                    [weeks] ago wee had a pretty good Snow the biggest one that has been in
                                        this county for many years; it was about three inches deep on the level, wee had
                                        to stand on picket guard when that Snow fell and we had to be in it three days
                                        but wee had to grin and bare it; if wee did not have togoe on picket guard wee
                                        would have an eazy time of it; wee have our tents fixt up in the best of stile
                                        and they are good and warm; wee draw planty of provition at this time; wee dont
                                        draw any hard bread but wee get plenty of flour; I have got to be baker in my
                                        mess and have got to baken good buiscuits, as good as any body can bake. I must
                                        tell you how I bake my bread, I take lard vinegar and Soda with a little warm
                                        water and Salt and thats the way that I make my bread it raises pretty well
                                        besides all that I prest me a bake oven and lid from an old cecesh one night,
                                        that holds buiscuits enough for fourteen of us at one time. I must tell you the
                                        names of all the boys that is in my mess. James, Samuel, J. F. Dick,
                                    Timothy [last name illegible], Jacob Niheart Philip Gonser William
                                    
                              
                                 82 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, November 17, 1862,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                              
                                 83 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, November 22, 1862,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                           
                                    
                                    Davidson Jacob Stantz John Kitch John Hare Jacob Fiscus and the two
                                        hout boys; John Stantz and George W Boon have left our mess and are in the
                                        Hospital. John Stantz has gone to 
                                            Memphis
                                         and Boon is here in the city hospital. I was at the city hospital
                                        yesterday to see some of the boys. I saw Gabriel Hochsteter. He looks like a
                                        skeleton.
                           84
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            A week later, seventy-five miles from 
                        Memphis
                    , he wrote that Mary's brothers James and Samuel were well but that
                    "N. Davidson …has got the dispepsy verry bad and is so pore that he dont hardly
                    make a shadow." In this letter, Andrew expressed impatience with the progress of the march
                    toward 
                  Jackson, Mississippi
               .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Soldiers dont like to stay long in one place wee have not got to see
                                        any Secesh yet only those that come and give them selves up. They are comeing in
                                        verry fast they nearly all take the oath ofallegeance wee have not been in no
                                        battle yet but we were not far off when the Rebels were driven from their works
                                        on the Tallehatchie River wee could hear the canon roar.
                                        Our cavalry got prety badly whipt about a week ago about four miles from here.
                                        Ervin Wetherly was in the fite and got prety badly hurt by getting thrown from
                                        his horse. Wee get to see a good many boys that wee have known here to fore.
                                    85
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Andrew and his brothers-in-law received packages from home from time to time. Some arrived
                    intact-some did not. Andrew expressed his pleasure with one: 
                  
                     
                        
                           Samuel got the Box that was Sent to us and I got five plugs of tobacco
                                        and a 1/2 gallon of dry apels and about the Same amount
                                        ofdryde peaches and Some butter. I also got the bucket and pans you sent. Wee
                                        got the peach butter Eliza Grimm Sent to Jacob and me.
                           86
                        
                     
                  
                And he showed his disappointment with another: 
                  
                     
                        
                           We have moved from our old camp at Fort Grissom to Moscow [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ] but I hope that we will soon get to move back to our old
                                        Camp at Fort Grissom or somewhere els any place els will do in refference to
                                        this damd lousey place, the fifty third 
                                            Ohio
                                         regiment is camped at this place and they are so damd lousey and
                                        dirty that they don't look like soldiers. This is the regiment that run
                                        and hid under the bank of the river in the Shilo fight: we call them the Shilo
                                        rase horses. We
                                    
                              
                                 84 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, January 20,1863,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                              
                                 85 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, January 27, 1863,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                              
                                 86 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, February 7, 1864,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                           
                                    
                                    
                              EXAMPLES OF ILLUSTRATIONS ON PRINTED STATIONERY
                                                USED BY UNION SOLDIERS
                              
                              Courtesy Mrs. Edward May, 
                                    Winnebago, Illinois
                                 , and Juliann McGinnis,
                                                    
                                    Covington, Texas
                                 .
                           
                                    
                                    received that box of provision that you folks sent to us we were well
                                        pleased to get them but wee would have been better pleased if that apple butter
                                        of Abe Harstine's had bin left at home the can that it was in burst
                                        open and spilt over everything, it spilt all of the letters that was in the box.
                                        the Socks that you sent to me came to late the weather is to warm for socks. I
                                        would bin glad if I had them last winter they would of done me some good. I did
                                        not have any socks for better than six months. There was a damd Corporal from
                                        the vicinity of Marian that Stold my Socks wen we were at 
                                            Louisville
                                            Kentucky
                                         and I had to do without ever Since on the account of not getting to
                                        any place where we could draw clothes. I have got the same clothes on that I had
                                        when I left home I and Samuel were very glad to receive such a fine present in
                                        the tobacco line.
                           87
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            In the spring of 1863, Captain James Robinson wrote an encouraging letter to his son, Abraham, who
                    had just told his father of his decision to live a Christian life.
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Dear Son: Your favor of the 28th ult. came safe to
                                        hand yesterday. It gave me much pleasure to hear of your good health and that of
                                        Mr. Seward's family. You, however forgot to say anything about Miss
                                        Hensley's health. I hope she is well. I received a letter at the same
                                        time from Anthony and M. J.; they were well.
                        
                        
                                    I am well pleased to hear that you have made a start for that good
                                        land. I want you to prove faithful; be dilligent in your business, but more so
                                        in your devotion to God; be as honest as you can in all your dealings with your
                                        fellow man; and be more so, if possible, with that God has brought you safe thus
                                        far and still lead you safely to the Heaven of everlasting repose. Beware of bad
                                        company and shun the very appearance of evil, and now while you have made a
                                        start, be watchful unto prayer, for the Devil and his earthly imps will try to
                                        pervert your ways and they will laugh in concert if they succeed in laying a
                                        snare for your feet. Be careful what sort of company you keep, and may God guide
                                        and guard you to the end and at last give you a resting place high up in Heaven
                                        is my prayer.
                                
                     
                  
                Robinson continued his letter by describing their camp and living conditions. 
                  
                     
                        
                           We left 
                                            Lagrange
                                        , Tenn. on sunday morning last at six o'clock, started
                                        through town and got on the railroad, (not on cars but on foot), and by
                                    11:30 A.M. we were at Moscow, 10 miles. We then went
                                        out on the State Road about one and a half miles and encamped for the night
                                    
                              
                                 87 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, April 27, 1863,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                           
                                    
                                    in a piece of woods. My tent stood between two graves with the stakes
                                        driven in both. We stayed there until 12 yesterday when we
                                        pulled up stakes and started for the railroad and got here in one hour, where we
                                        are now located, and probably permantly located, in a mudhole. There was a kind
                                        of Fort here. Our duty will be to guard the railroad. We are in the most
                                        deplorable looking place, Wolf River Bottoms, fit only for
                                        Indians and Secessionists. Rain came on last night about ten o'clock
                                        and it has been doing its best ever since. It is now 3 PM. The
                                        bottoms below us are all covered with water and it is rising fast. Our pickets
                                        came in about ten or eleven this forenoon and had to wade knee-deep. There is
                                        twice that depth now. We will have to call in the balance of the pickets, else
                                        they will be like Noah's dove and not find dry ground on which to rest
                                        the soles of their feet. We are within three miles of 
                                            Lafayette
                                        .
                           88
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            Captain Robinson's letter to the 
                        Spencer
                    
                    
                  
                            Owen County
                         Journal dated April 8, 1863, described the destruction he had witnessed.
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Many letters come here from Indiana, and some newspapers filled with
                                        blood and thunder-nothing but wars and rumors of wars; and I have heard of some
                                        letters that advised men to desert and return home, and that they were preparing
                                        for bloody war and destruction. Those who are afraid to come out and fight for
                                        their country had better come and take a march with the army, and they will see
                                        the ruin and distruction of property that follows where an army marches
                                        thro' or encamps for any length of time; splendid mansions, churches
                                        and in fact everything of combustible or burning nature is licked up by the
                                        flames. We have seen level country where you could not see 1,000 rails in a day march. Horses, mules, cattle, hogs and sheep were driven
                                        off, or slaughtered and carried away; poultry of all kinds have disappeared from
                                        the farmers; the soldiers entering houses and carrying off what they could, let
                                        the articles be of value to them or not, and then breaking and tearing up the
                                        balance. I have seen us drive out to a plantation and load eighty wagons of corn
                                        at one time; we had taken forty loads before, and left forty or fifty behind,
                                        which has probably been hauled before now by others. These are but light things
                                        and you will have to see before you believe but some in Indiana may be like one
                                        of old, both see and feel. God forbid that ever the free and fair fields of
                                        Indiana should be drenched in blood from the veins of her sons and daughters;
                                        but may strife and contention cease and may wise and just counsels, and peace
                                        and harmony, prevail all over the land.
                        
                     
                  
                He continued with an accounting of his company and their recent experiences.
            
               
                  88 James Robinson to Abraham Robinson, March 10, 1863, transcript
                        (original in the private collection of Mary Lou Bishop).
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           The boys are now enjoying good health generally, we have a few in the
                                        hospital yet, but all on the mend; and I think that our regiment will soon be in
                                        better trim for fighting than ever before; they are now pretty well versed in
                                        the duties of a soldier's life with the exception of fighting, and we
                                        have not done any of that (since the big battle that Peter Eick was in and
                                        fought with so much Christian courage when sinners turned and run). …
                                        On last Saturday week (28th ult.) the rebels made a raid on
                                        this railroad by putting obstructions in the way; they took 54 prisoners, some of them soldiers and some citizens; they have been paroled
                                        there were four men from our regiment in the number. …
                        
                           Lieut. J. S. Meek is now detailed as Quartermaster. I expect he will get
                                        the place permanently, and it will be one of the best appointments made. I hate
                                        to lose him from our company, but Jim is such a whole-souled fellow that I
                                        cannot say anything, and if his appointment is sure, Orderly Wm. H. H. Johnson
                                        will come in for Lieutenant. He will make a good officer, but I suppose I will
                                        have to whip him to make him keep his tongue still-it is always going but when
                                        he is asleep!… Mrs. J. S. Meek landed here safe on last Monday
                                        afternoon, well and hearty; and she still continues so. The Lieutenant is
                                    well!…
                        
                                    Our surgeons are well and are as well liked as men in their capacity
                                        can be. Dr. Murphy is the life of the Regiment, and is a gentleman; his wife is
                                        here now. Dr. Hilburn is still the same jovial, jolly Doctor that he was in 
                                            Spencer
                                        , and very attentative to his duty and waiting on the sick. Dr.
                                        McNaught is detailed at the hospital in 
                                            Lagrange
                                         where we have a good many sick.
                                    89
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Abraham W. Robinson, reinforced with his new-found faith, followed his father to war-and death. Both
                    are buried on the Robinson family farm. Abraham died of a disease. His father's death was
                    by freak accident. James Robinson was detailed to accompany the body of his friend, Captain
                    Zachariah Dean, home for burial. When they arrived, the casket was opened and personal effects
                    removed. In handling Dean's sword Robinson cut himself and died from the wound September
                    1,1863, the same day Corporal Isaac Norris and Sergeant John Troth were shipped back from 
                        Gettysburg
                     to be buried. Robinson's surviving son, Joseph W. Robinson, enrolled in
                    Company D, 149th Indiana Volunteer Infantry, late in the war.90
            
            Captain James S. Meek, of Company H, 97th Indiana, was detached from his command to serve as acting
                    quartermaster of the regiment. Later, he was promoted to several responsible positions 
                  
                     89 James Robinson, letter to the editor, 
                                Spencer
                            
                            
                        
                                    Owen County
                                 Journal, April 15, 1863.
                  
                     90 Clifton W. Schmalz, "Robinson Family of Vandalia Had Part
                            in Civil War," 
                                Spencer
                            
                            Evening World, November 6, 1964.
               
                     and finally served as property quartermaster for the department
                    of 
                        Tennessee
                    .91
            
            Young surgeon Jabez C. Hilburn, whom Robinson mentioned, was born in the early 1830s in Spartanburg, 
                        South Carolina
                    . He joined the 97th, and family tradition holds that he was captured and spent time at
                    Andersonville Prison. He survived and returned to 
                        Owen County
                     to practice medicine at Freedom until his death in 1873.92
            
            On April 24,1863, the 59th Regiment began its march to Vicksburg. On May 1 it arrived at
                            
                  Port Gibson, Mississippi
               , just as the battle there ended. At Champion's
                    Hill two men from Company A were killed, George W. and William W. Dyar. In the assaults on Vicksburg
                    the 59th sustained heavy losses.93
            
            Austin Arnett wrote a letter to his "Kind Friend" Emerine Hicks on June 6, 1863, in
                    a camp near Vicksburg. He listed the battles he had been in since the first of May: Port Gibson on
                    May 1, Thompson's Hill on May 4, Jackson on May 14, Champion's Hill on May 16, and
                    the second assault on Vicksburg on May 22. Remarking on the last engagement, he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    thare I was slitly wounded in the wright arm I ware in all of those
                                        batles and thare ware hard fighting we are laying under the sound of cannons all
                                        the time here I am a bout satisfied of this war we have had sixteen killed and
                                        wounded out of our Company you may know we have had a hard time vicksburg is not
                                        taken yet but I think will bee in a few days
                                    94
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Andrew Bush and the 97th also spent the summer of 1863 participating in the Vicksburg campaign. On
                    June 22 he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        
                           Old Grant is playing the devil with Vicksburg it has been one constant
                                        roar for ten days So the boys Says. What time I have been here the big dogs have
                                        been barking all of the time. Wee have three hundred Canon within range of the
                                        rebel forty fication and it is Supposed
                                    
                              
                                 91 Beem, "Military History," 659.
                              
                                 92 Carol Swayze, 
                                                Coal City
                                            , Indiana, letter to the author, 1994. Other 
                                                Owen County
                                             physicians who served in the Union Army were William Henry
                                            Dixon, Abel J. Fawcett, Samuel D. Richards, Dudley Rogers, and John M.
                                            Stucky of the 59th Regiment; James M. Goss of the 149th; George K. McCoy of
                                            the 1st Heavy Artillery; Howard S. Osgood of the 5th Cavalry; Frederick A.
                                            Schell of the 71st; William V. Wiles of the 85th; and John Wooden of the 7th
                                            and 68th. This list was derived from research in the 
                                                Owen County
                                             Archives and from "Nineteenth-Century Indiana
                                            Physicians," computer database (Ruth Lilly Medical Center Library, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana).
                              
                                 93 Beem, "Military History," 647.
                              
                                 94 Austin Arnett to Emerine Hicks, June 6, 1863
                                            (private collection of Mrs. Edward May).
                           
                                    
                                    
                              THREE OFFICERS OF THE 59TH REGIMENT
                              
                              Courtesy John W. Williams, 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Indiana.
                           
                                    
                                    that the rebels will surrender in a few days. Our Regment and Division
                                        are keeping Johnson [Joseph E. Johnston] from reinforcing at 
                                            Vicksburg
                                        .
                           95
                        
                     
                  
                In the letter he wrote the following week he had looked around and seen: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    some of the awfulest hills in God's creation if it maybe could
                                        be God's creation but I dont think he had any hand in making this part
                                        of the world … Wee have all of the pigs and chickens hunted out from
                                        amongst the hills within Six miles of this place. Wee have taken nearly all of
                                        the catle that wee Could finde but they are plenty of the blackberrys yet.
                                    96
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            While Andrew participated in the seige of Vicksburg, his three brothers, serving in the 19th, fought
                    and received wounds at 
                        Gettysburg
                     On July 28, 1863, he informed his wife: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    I received a letter from John Bush last night and he said they were all
                                        three wonded at the Battle of 
                                            Gettysburg
                                        , Penn. wright Soon as this comes to hand and direct to the
                                        Regiment. I am going to send in a Cesech envelope that I captured at 
                                            Jackson
                                        
                           
                                    97
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Edward Hines, of the 97th Regiment, was from Jefferson Township He was a neighbor of the Williams
                    brothers, whose writings appear above. When Edward wrote the following letter, on July 4, 1863, he
                    was weary and yearned for letters from home. As he wrote, word of the surrender of Vicksburg began
                    to arrive at his camp in 
                  Oak Ridge, Mississippi
               .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    My Dear Wife I take this opportunity of writing a few lines to inform
                                        you that I am well at present hoping that these few lines may find you enjoying
                                        the same blessing I have not received anything from you Since I left home. I
                                        learn that General U. S. Grant has stopped the communications from going north
                                        until Vicksburg is taken but he has not issued any order preventing the mail
                                        from coming South I am very anxious to hear how you are getting along but I
                                        Suppose that I will have to wait till I get a letter I hope that will be soon I
                                        am affraid that I am so far away from home that I wont get more than
                                    
                              
                                 95 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, June 22, 1863, transcript
                                            (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                              
                                 96 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, June 29, 1863, transcript
                                            (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                              
                                 97 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, July 28, 1863, transcript
                                            (private collection of Gary L. Brown); Gary L. Brown, interviews with and
                                            letters to the author, 1993–1997 (see footnote 35).
                           
                                    
                                    half of my letters from you but I hope that this war will come to a
                                        close Soon There is a roomor her that Vicksburg has Surrendered all her forces
                                        and it is generally believed One thing certain we have not heard any Shooting
                                        last night nor this morning yet Lieutennant Elliot came along just now and says
                                        that the city of Vicksburg is taken for certain We have not yet heard any thing
                                        particular about it only that the rebels have Surrendered the place we will jump
                                        up and down for joy. The weather is very warm here at present but I think that
                                        we will be taken someplace els from here now in a few days whether we will go
                                        North or South from here I am not able to Say but all the troops that is here at
                                        this time if we have heard the truth from Vicksburg wont be kneeded here now I
                                        would be glad if they would Send us to Virgina it would be so much more pleasant
                                        there than here especialy in the Somer Season this Southern country is very hot
                                        I will have to bring my letter to a close as I have So much work to do to day I
                                        have been doing Some Sewing this morning for my self and Some for my neighbors I
                                        put a pocket in my own blouse and one for William F. Moore and a watch pocket
                                        for Alvis Newsom now I have to do some washing for my self a pair of pantaloons
                                        Shirt and socks. Then I have got to clean up my gun Out side and inside dinner
                                        to cook and a number of Other little things to do too tedious to mention if
                                        people think that a Soldier has nothing to do lett them try it I hate to wash my
                                        clothes the worst of anything els. I want you to write to me often as I am very
                                        anxious to hear how your getting along
                                    98
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Edward Hines was captured near 
                        Atlanta
                     on July 22,1864, and imprisoned at Andersonville. After two months he was exchanged,
                    but he returned to the army gravely ill. He was sent to a hospital, where he died the following
                        year.99
            
            Several weeks after the fall of Vicksburg, Andrew Bush described to his wife the weariness of the men
                    in his company and the experience of battle.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    James got a letter last evening from Rachel. She stated that the folks
                                        were all getting along well except our Babe: I am sorry to hear such news but I
                                        am in hopes that when I hear from you again that all is well. James and Samuel
                                        are in good Health. James has gone to Haynes blufto assist in bringing the sick
                                        to the regiment … Wee have Settled down again after Six weeks of
                                        wandering around threw 
                                            Mississippi
                                         wee are all prety Hard and Kneed rest espetialy thos that were
                                    
                              
                                 98 Edward Hines to Martha Hines, July 4, 1863 (private
                                            collection of Robert W. Hines, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana).
                              
                                 99 Robert W. Hines, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , telephone interview with the author, March 9, 1994; Robert W.
                                            Hines, letter to the author, March 15, 1994.
                           
                                    
                                    detailed to carry the wonded from Jackson to this place; me and Samuel
                                        and Wm H. Davidson were detailed out of our company, it tuck us three days and
                                        part of three nights wee did not get more than two hours sleep each night; wee
                                        were nearly worn out against wee got to Black River the
                                        distance being thirty miles; pore fellows could not bare to be golted and it was
                                        hard on them as well as us. the dust and heat with the Scarsity of water made
                                        the task more Severe than it would have bin if the wether would have been
                                        Cooler; but that one hard job of work is done and will Soon be forgoten like
                                        evry thing els in the army; Soldiers are not much concerned how things work all
                                        that is cared for is enough to eate and drink; all the time that the Soldier
                                        feels concerned is when he gets into battle and See his fellow Soldier fall by
                                        his side wallering in his blood then is when a feeling of revenge comes in one
                                        so strong that one feels like as tho they could go threw most any kind of a
                                        place, wee lost thirty one in killed and wonded and I cant See what is the
                                        reason that they wasnt more hurt than they was for they was eleven peices of
                                        canon right in front of us and two that cross fired on us they threw shells and
                                        grape shot at us from ten oclock in the morning until five in the evning; our
                                        company lay in an open field where the Sun had a fare Sweep at us we could not
                                        get any water to drink … You must not be uneazy about me for I dont
                                        think that the war will last very long.
                                    100
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Andrew reported regularly on the health of Mary's brothers, Samuel and James Hilligas. From
                    Vicksburg, on September 28,1863, he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        
                           Dear Wife this leaves me and Samuel on the mend. I have got my boils
                                        reduced down to about one dozen I am with the convalescense here me and Samuel
                                        wasnt considered able to march So wee were Sent on ahead of the regment on the
                                        cars. Our army corps is ordered up the River into East 
                                            Tennessee
                                         to reinforce Rosencrantses [Rosecrans's] army at 
                                            Chattanooga
                                         our Division will march in from Black river to
                                        morrow and take the boats tomorrow enening. Wee Soldiers are grately rejoiced on
                                        the account of getting to go North wee are all looking for to get into the
                                        mountainous reagions of East tennessee So that we can get one more good drink of
                                        water; water is all that wee suffer for the water in Miss, aint fit for a muel
                                        to drink Sometimes we draw ice to put in our water then it will do; James
                                        Hilligas is in Splended good health at this time. Samuel is pretty weak and has
                                        got the rheumatism in his left arm and Shoulder so that he dont get much rest.
                                        as for myself I feel as well as I ever did in my life. Yesterday and this
                                        morning I have spent in taking a view ofVicksburg and the fortifications.
                                    
                              
                                 100 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, July 28, 1863,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                           
                                    
                                    I dont think that all the men in the 
                                            United States
                                         could have taken this place from the rebels if they had of had
                                        provision but General Starvation done the fighting not General Grant.
                           101
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Not long after Andrew wrote that letter, he and the rest of the 97th Regiment left Vicksburg and
                    began to move toward eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    . In a letter from 
                  Iuka, Mississippi
               , Andrew described their march.
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Dear wife. I am hapy to inform you that I am well Hopeing this note may
                                        reach you and finde you in the best of Health. Wee are Campt only to take our
                                        rest a day or two in order to draw clothing and to be mustered for pay where wee
                                        will go I cant tell at the present time but I expect that wee will go on toward
                                        Rosen crantses [Rosecrans's] army; wee are under the
                                        comand of General Sherman and he is ordered to reinforce Rosen Crants So wee are
                                        on our way and have been marching in getting to this place from 
                                            Memphis
                                         ever since the eleventh; the way that wee come is about
                                        … one hundred and twenty miles from 
                                            Memphis
                                        ; the boys have Suffered a good deal on this march and about half of
                                        the regmentgave out and had to be cept in the cars from lagrange 
                                            Tennessee
                                         to this place; Samuel and James gave out John Moyer Blake coan
                                        Lorence Wetherwax and Joseph Lenhart are all that gave out that you are
                                        acquainted with. Samuel wasnt able to more than walk nicely when he first
                                        Started but he stuck up to the walk four days before he gave out; James
                                        blistered his foot So that he could not march and had to be put abord the cars;
                                        The Health of the regment is improveing fast Since wee left Black
                                            river
                                        
                                            Mississippi
                                        . We are getting into a more Healthy climate and I am in hopes that
                                        we will not get any farther South while this Cruel War lasts for us boys have
                                        been sun burnt enough for onct and drank mudy water enough to do us as long as
                                        we live. The Fifty Ninth Indiana regment is Campt Close to us. Jackson and 
                                            Marion
                                            Tipton
                                         is well; James Herrod is at 
                                            Memphis
                                         in the Hospital Sick. John Reed is assinde to the invalid core; the
                                        Corpnter boys are all well.
                        
                        
                                    I must bid you good by for this time and go and wash my Close for they
                                        are getting all together too lively for Comfort, you must right often for I have
                                        not had a letter from you for two months. Farewell
                                    102
                                
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     101 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, September 28,1863, transcript (private
                            collection of Gary L. Brown). Soon after Andrew Bush wrote this letter, the 97th Indiana
                            returned to 
                                Memphis
                             and then set off through 
                                Tennessee
                             and northern 
                                Mississippi
                             and 
                                Alabama
                             toward 
                                Chattanooga
                            . After the Union defeat at 
                                Chickamauga
                             in September, 1863, General William S. Rosecrans and the Army of the 
                                Cumberland
                             had withdrawn to 
                                Chattanooga
                            . There they were beseiged by Confederate forces under Braxton Bragg. William T.
                            Sherman commanded the reinforcements that hurried toward 
                                Chattanooga
                             from Vicksburg and 
                                Memphis
                            , some units traveling over 600 miles through October and early November. Beem,
                            "Military History," 653; Boatner, Civil War Dictionary,
                            141–46.
                  
                     102 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, October 27, 1863, transcript (private
                            collection of Gary L. Brown).
               
                     Andrew told Mary that he was sending "seven small
                    cedar bushes" with Peter Hochstetler who was going home on sick furlough. He directed her
                    to plant them on their baby's grave and on his father's grave. She did plant them,
                    and the trees they became still stand today in Bush Cemetery in 
                        Owen County
                    .103
            
            When food was plentiful and conditions peaceful, even soldiers on the move could be content. In one
                    of his letters, Andrew Bush described a camp at which his company paused on its way to 
                        Chattanooga
                    .
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                                    wee have been campt at this place just one week and have got nicely
                                        rested once more Me and P. M. Hochstetter Jacob Niheart Jacob Stantz and John M.
                                        Kitch has built us a nice little Shanty to live in this winter and have got a
                                        good chimey built to it and nice bunks fixt up to sleep on and everything rite
                                        in general. But I am Sorry to inform you that wee will have to leave all our
                                        Comforts in the morning Shanty and all. Whereto, God and the General knows But I
                                        dont.
                                    104
                                
                     
                  
                Later, Andrew described the food he and his comrades took while on the move.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    our haversacks were generally prety well filled turkey chicken mutton
                                        and good fresh pork and Some times wee had butter and buiscuits of the best;
                                        know doubt you will think Strange of our having buiscuit but wee have them
                                        whenever wee can get the flour. I am getting so I can bake prety good buiscuit
                                        and by the time that my three years prentisship is out I think that I will be a
                                        pretty good cook good enough to go to housekeeping.
                                    105
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            From 
                        Mississippi
                    , he reported that guerrillas were becoming a concern.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    I have just come in from the picket line where I have bin for the last
                                        twenty four hours!! wee have strick orders on picket wee were ordered to Shoot
                                        all the Straglers that wee Caught Ought Side of hour lines General Sherman is
                                        determined to put a stop to guerillering bully for him; day before yesterday
                                        they was Some guerrillas drest in federal uniforms rode in one of the Camps of
                                        an 
                                            Iowa
                                         regment and kiled and wounded about forty men besides nearly all of
                                        the officers belonging to regment; I pity the pore boys that are wonded but I
                                        cant pity the
                                    
                              
                                            103
                                            Ibid.
                                        
                              
                                 104 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, October 27,1863,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                              
                                 105 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, November 16, 1863,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                           
                                    
                                    officers for they ought to kept better rules; our brigade travails with
                                        General Sherman and wee are his guards and I dont think that men in disguise
                                        will get into our Camp without Some troubble; Curious are the ways of war
                                    106
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Foraging for provisions had its risks. Andrew told of one such mission that nearly ended in disaster.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           I must tell you about the Gurilar chase that I had on the eighth day of
                                        this month [November, 1863]; wee lay one day at 
                                            Fayette
                                         on Elk river
                                        
                                            Tennessee
                                         and whilst staying there the General ordered a detail from our
                                        brigade of fifty men to go on a foraging expedition and as usual it came my turn
                                        So we were mounted on mewls and put under the Command of quartermaster Sager and
                                        off wee went at full speed. Nothing occurd of any importance until near Sunset
                                        wee were driving along our drove of mixt Stock of about four hundred head of
                                        hogs Sheep and cattle and a few ducks turkeys chickens and gees Strapt on our
                                        mewls just to make things look a little comfortable when all upon a Sudden and
                                        to our grate surprise the gurrils were down on us and were fighting our rear
                                        guard and picking up the Stragglers. But wee were not long in getting ready for
                                        them. Wee made a dash at them, but they would not Stand their ground So wee had
                                        a nice ride after them I guess that they never were horse jockeys that Strove
                                        harder to win a race than wee did to ketch them but our mewls were too much worn
                                        down to overtake fresh horses. Our mewls did all that they could do and So did
                                        wee but to know porpes. wee lost to men; how many the guerilas lost I cant tell.
                                        I do not see what was the reason they did not kill more than they did for the
                                        bullets flew thick and fast; but we got our Stock to Camp and that's
                                        what wee went for
                           107
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            In mid-November, Andrew and the 97th reached 
                  Bridgeport, Alabama
               , and
                    prepared to meet the enemy at 
                        Chattanooga
                    .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    More than one month has passed of hard marching and us boys are nearly
                                        worn off to the Knees. I am well with the exception of feeling somewhat Soar in
                                        my Shoulder and feet;… General Brag cant whip our army but he can
                                        were us out running after him and thats all the way he can kork us. I am getting
                                        somewhat Herd of marching over this Southern country. It tuck us thirty four
                                        days to get to this place and only rested five days out of the thirty four and
                                        they say it is four hundred miles and over some of as rough country as I ever
                                        saw in my life. We were two days crossing one chane of the Cumberland
                                            mountains;
                                    
                              
                                 106 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, October 27,1863,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                              
                                 107 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, November 16, 1863,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                           
                                    
                                    the distance across the mountain was about twelve miles but wee were
                                        buisey both days, wee had to help the wagons along which wasnt a nice job by
                                        know means for wee had to carry our guns and knapsack and work, all at the Same
                                        time and live on half rations for wee coudnt pres anything to eat on the
                                        mountain … the army that went threw before cleaned the country
                                        nicely.
                                    108
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            After the Battle of 
                        Chattanooga
                    , Andrew and the rest of the 97th Regiment made another hard march. They traveled over
                    one hundred miles into eastern 
                        Tennessee
                     as part of a force sent to relieve Union troops beseiged at 
                        Knoxville
                    . That mission accomplished, the 97th returned to northern 
                        Alabama
                     before setting out on the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign in the spring of 1864.109 In late May, Andrew wrote to
                    Mary of his involvement in one of the early engagements of the campaign, the battle at
                            
                  Dallas, Georgia
               .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dear wife I am on guard duty at General Harrows Headquarters where I
                                        expect to stay dureing the ballance of this Campaign and maybe while my time
                                        lasts in this war. But you must not think that I am out of danger. I thought
                                        when I was sent for to go on duty as the General's quarters that I
                                        would not be in any more danger from the enemy s balls. But the fight of
                                        yesterday was one of something awful the most severe that I have had to witness
                                        since I have been in the army. The rebel Cannoniers and sharp shooters got range
                                        on our head quarters and they did place their shott with grate accuracy. The
                                        shells burst in all directions Clost to us one Shell threw considerable
                                        quanttity of dirt on General Logan "Which made him look two way for
                                        Sunday. about eleven A.M. one of the stray bullets of Mister Reb Came along and
                                        found myself feeling for my chin and a mashed gun in my hand if it had not been
                                        for the gun, the bullet would have taken off my hole head. So it is lucky that
                                        things are know worse than it is. My chin is awful sore so much so that I can
                                        scarcely eate My hard tack but I think it will get well in a short time, the cut
                                        commences at the right corner of my mouth and runs from there to the lower part
                                        of the chin on the left side cutting all the flech for about two inches in
                                        length by one in bredth cleaning all as it went clear to the bone …
                                        which will save me the trouble of shaving for some time.
                                    110
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                        108
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  109 Beem, "Military History, "653.
               
                  110 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, May 29, 1864, transcript (private collection
                        of Gary L. Brown). John A. Logan was the commander of the 15th Corps, which included the 97th
                        Indiana. Andrew described him as "a savage looking man and about as dark as some of old
                        Abe's Contrabands he has some Indian blood in him the old Indian Chief we read about in
                        the Fourth Reader is his grand father, so it is rumored with us." Andrew Bush to Mary
                        Bush, April 29,1864, transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
            
            
            
               ANDREW BUSH IN LATER YEARS
               
               Courtesy Mary Miller.
            
            
            A week later Andrew wrote that his chin was still pretty sore but healing.111 As
                    the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign proceeded, he and his brothers-in-law fared well but were tired and hungry for
                    fresh food. They had plenty of fresh beef from the droves of cattle accompanying the army and plenty
                    of sugar and coffee, but Andrew said, "I wish that we were somewhere where we could trade
                    our suplies for some vegetables. I am geting burnt up with old dry government rations. I have had
                    two messes of green appels Stewd and they done me right smart of good."112
            
            Finally, in early September, Andrew reported that 
                        Atlanta
                     had fallen and that he and his regiment had retired for the time being to a camp at
                    West Point, 
                        Georgia
                    , near the 
                        Alabama
                     state line.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           I have not had the oppertunity to write for the last two weeks. We have
                                        been runing the enemy and have chaste them from 
                                            Atlanta
                                         at last our corps was part of the army that done up the flanking
                                        for old rebble Hood. General Sherman has proved him Self to be the champion of
                                        the day, he has outgenerald all of the rebel generals that has Come in front of
                                        him in this present campaign Three cheers for Cap Sherman and his western army.
                                        I am With the regiment at the present time. I left General Harrows head quarters
                                        about a month ago. Reason I left there is I was sick and not able to do duty and
                                        would not take the Doctors poison medicine therefore they had know use for me
                                        any where; I am truly glad I got with the regiment for as soon as I got with the
                                        regment I felt like as tho I had got out of jail. … this time I am as
                                        fat as a pet pig if Peter M. Hochstetler dont come back to the regiment I want
                                        you to get a dollar from him that I gave him when he went home on furlow. I gave
                                        it to him for to bring me some pepermint oil but if he comes to the regiment I
                                        want him to bring it with him and if you can I would like if you would send me
                                        the medicine that Dr. Canady spoke off. I want it so that when I get the
                                    [diarrhea] again I will have something to meete it with. Our campaign
                                        is over for the present. We are drawing cloths to-day a thing that we stand
                                        grately in kneed of. We are a shabby looking set of fellows. I think that we
                                        will be paid off in a few days. We have eight months pay due us and they thot we
                                        will draw six months pay, and if we do I want to send eight dollars home if they
                                        is any one goes home that I can send it by, and I want you to keep it for we
                                        will kneed it if I should ever be so lucky to get home.
                           113
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  111 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, June 4, 1864, transcript (private collection
                        of Gary L. Brown).
               
                  112 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, June 27, 1864, transcript (private
                        collection of Gary L. Brown).
               
                  113 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, September 9, 1864, transcript (private
                        collection of Gary L. Brown). Confederate forces evacuated 
                            Atlanta
                         on September 1, 1864.
            
            
            Andrew was discharged as a sergeant at the end of his threeyear term. He died in 
                        Hamilton County
                    , 
                        Nebraska
                    , on May 21,1916. His wife Mary predeceased him by almost nine years.114
            
            
                    IV "Old Abe Has Got Us in His Possession"
                
            At the beginning of the war, patriotism motivated the men of 
                        Owen County
                    . They volunteered with their neighbors and brothers to defend their government,
                    "the best the sun ever shone upon."115
            
            Daniel Williams recalled the fervor of the 97th as the soldiers prepared to travel south in 1862.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    The heavy tread of the soldiers marching by that stiring music Yankee
                                        Doodle and the Stars and Stripes as they floated in the breeze made me feel
                                        proud that I was an American Citizen and that we all had offered our services in
                                        defense of the Constitutions and those stars and stripes which floated so
                                        proudly. … The Government our fathers had handed down to us. The best
                                        the sun ever shone upon. Should we suffer it now to go down. The flag that
                                        nations dreaded and dare not insult with such thoughts and the protections of
                                        our homes where our companions and children are. Who would not offer his
                                        services to help put down rebellion which had trailed our flag in the dust? None
                                        but a traitor himself.
                                    116
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The soldiers did not question the necessity of rallying around their flag, and few doubted that the
                    rebellion would be settled quickly. General George B. McClellan's campaign against 
                        Richmond
                     in the spring of 1862 would end the conflict, and they would all go home again to their
                    farms and families. Recruiting stations were closed in April, so confident was the War Department
                    that no more men would be needed.117 But the war did not end, and morale sank.
            Then came the preliminary Emancipation Proclamation in September, 1862. President Lincoln declared
                    that on January 1,1863, all slaves in states, or parts of states, that were in rebellion would be
                    free. For the soldiers of 
                        Owen County
                    , a new dimension had been 
                  As Andrew Bush stated, the 15th Corps and the rest of the of the Army of the 
                                Tennessee
                             particpated in the maneuver that turned Confederate commander John Bell
                            Hood's flank in the last week of August and rendered the Confederate position
                            untenable. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 33–34.
                  
                     114 Gary L. Brown, interviews with and letters to the author,
                            1993–1997 (see footnote 35).
                  
                     115 Diary of Daniel Williams, undated, transcript, p. 4.
                  
                            116
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     117 Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War
                            Era, 131.
               
                     added to the war, a change of which many disapproved. They
                    believed they were now fighting a war not only to save the Union but to free slaves, and many of
                    them disliked the idea of risking their lives for the liberation of black people. Emancipation would
                    be debated among the 
                        Owen County
                     soldiers. It would be feared, and it would arouse great anger. No longer would the
                    soldiers of 
                        Owen County
                     be united in purpose. United in allegiance, yes. But the 
                        Lincoln
                     administration and "the negro question" fired bitter arguments among
                        them.118
            
            Back in Indiana, meanwhile, intense political conflict raged over the prosecution of the war.
                    Democratic newspapers and politicians charged that Republicans used the war as an excuse to exceed
                    the bounds of the Constitution and increase the power of the federal government. They also condemned
                    what they considered dictatorial actions by Republican Governor Oliver P. Morton. Republicans, for
                    their part, charged Democrats with sedition and disloyalty to the Union.
            Party animosity only deepened with the announcement of the emancipation policy. Democrats declared
                    that 
                        Lincoln
                     had turned the war into a fight to free the slaves, and they warned that emancipation
                    would bring a wave of black migration into Indiana. Opposition to emancipation helped the Democratic
                    party take control of the state legislature in a sweeping victory in the elections of 1862. In the
                    wake of that victory, rumors were heard of a conspiracy to take Indiana out of the Union and with 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     form a confederacy of the Old Northwest.
            Talk of conspiracies was mostly unfounded, but political violence did occur in Indiana during the
                    Civil War years. Political meetings were disrupted, Republican mobs attacked the offices of several
                    Democratic newspapers, and resistance to the draft sometimes ended in bloodshed. As the war went on,
                    disunion back in Indiana became a common topic in the letters of the 
                        Owen County
                     soldiers.119
            
            Captain James Robinson found himself in the middle of the politics of the war. In a letter to his son
                    in February, 1863, he reported that his unit was seeing very little military action. It seems their
                    idle time was spent arguing about the political news filtering into their camp.
            
               
                  118 For additional correspondence in which Hoosier soldiers express
                        political dissent, see Margaret Black Tatum, "'Please Send Stamps':
                        The Civil War Letters of William Allen Clark," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XCI (March, June, September, December, 1995), 81–108,
                        197–225, 288–320, 405–36.
               
                  119 Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 180–224. See
                        also Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. XXXI; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1949); John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier
                            to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1954), II, chaps. VIII, LX; Gilbert R. Tredway, Democratic Opposition
                            to the 
                                Lincoln
                             Administration in Indiana (Indiana Historical Collections, XLVIII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1973); Thomas E. Rodgers, "Liberty, Will, and Violence: The Political
                        Ideology of the Democrats of West-Central Indiana during the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of History, XCII (June, 1996), 133–59.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Now, Abraham, there is some talk here that there is a muss brewing in
                                        Indiana. I wish you to keep your hands clean of it and let the curse follow
                                        those that join in civil war in Indiana. I know that I have left some behind who
                                        were willing to imbrue their hands in their neighbors bloo[d] when there was a
                                        chance for plunder and robbery, but who were too cowardly to turn out and fight
                                        the battles of their country.
                                    120
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Before the war, Vint Anderson was a student at Indiana University. There he engaged in some heated
                    debates with a friend named Simmons about slavery and the political issues dividing the North and
                    South. Anderson recalled, "I had told Simmons that if the worst came to the worst that I
                    expected to volunteer [for the Union] at the first drum tap and he said he would do the
                    same"-but for the Confederate cause.121 One day during the war, while stationed close to a
                    hospital used for Confederate prisoners, Vint struck up a conversation with one of the wounded, a
                    soldier from 
                        Mississippi
                    . Vint learned that the injured Confederate was a neighbor of his old friend Simmons.
                    Vint and the wounded soldier continued the debate he and Simmon had started before the war about the
                    moral and economic legitimacy of slavery. Thirty years later Vint reflected on that conversation.
                    Simmons called slavery "'God's Holy Writ.' There is a screw
                    loose some where. … This boy was thoroughly imbued with the belief that they would
                    succeed because slavery was ordained by God, and God would be with them." Vint went on to
                    write in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    American Tribune:
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Our regiment was as patriotic as any of the rest in the Union but I
                                        believe if they had known that the war was for the almost express purpose of
                                        freeing the slave at any time for the first two years of the war, that three
                                        fourths of them would have deserted. I can still hear ringing in our ears such
                                        expressions from them as this; ["]cf-d the negro, I never enlisted to
                                        free them, etc."
                                    122
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Vint and his brother Will became very much interested in the wounded boy from 
                        Mississippi
                     and came to visit him almost every day. They brought him food that the hospital did not
                    furnish. A friendship developed and a bond of trust. The Andersons believed they had convinced the
                    boy that the rebellion was a lost cause, until one day he said that he could not wait to get back to
                    his post of duty. At that 
                  
                     120 James Robinson to Abraham W. Robinson, February 10, 1863,
                            transcript (original in the private collection of Mary Lou Bishop).
                  
                     121 Anderson, "As a Private Saw It," scrapbook p.
                            24.
                  
                     122 Ibid.
               
                     point Vint concluded that the Union army would have to
                    "kill every d-d one like him" before the war would end.123
            
            In the early weeks of 1863, Andrew Bush expressed to his wife his frustration with the politics of
                    the war.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           Dear Mary this little bit of a note leaves me in the best of health
                                        James and Samuel are allso well and I truly hope that this may find you and the
                                        rest of the folks well. Wee have not much news here but much anxiety is felt for
                                        Northern news amongst Some of the Soldiers in regard to the welfare of old
                                        Hoosier. it is reported frequently amongst us that Indiana is about to form a
                                        government of her own with some other of the western States. I trust that it
                                        aint so for if it is so us pore soldiers will have to Suffer. Some of our boys
                                        are jubelant over the news; they think that if old Indiana would slip out of the
                                        Union they would get to go home; but they will find that they are in mistake for
                                        us Soldiers dont belong to Indiana for we are sworn to obey the president of the 
                                            United States
                                         and wee are in his servis and he can hold us in spite of anything
                                        that wee and our friends can do. I dont like old Abe's proclamation but
                                        I cant help myself at this time. If I had thot that it was the idea to set the
                                        negroes all free they would not have got me to act the part of a Soldiers in
                                        this war. But as it is I am willing to fight for the union if it will cause the
                                        freedom of the last beastly negro in the South for I dont think that they are
                                        human. I am in for anything that will cause Union and peace of our once hapy
                                        government If peace is ever established they will be one class of men that will
                                        know how to enjoy it and that will be the Soldiers. If the big men that made
                                        this war would have to do as the common Soldier does peace would be made in less
                                        than two days. I will just state here in this place what we have had to do altho
                                        wrong it may be [for me?] to right [some?] things tho it is the truth. We have had to march forty five miles in two days
                                        and carry all of our Couterment which weigh eighty pounds with us. When wee done
                                        that wee had no bread or Salt: all that we got to eate was hogs that we would
                                        get after we came to a halt at night and sometimes there would be Some that
                                        would not be lucky enough to get any: this is true as the rizeing and setting
                                        Sun; When wee were on that march I thought that if I was at home I could ask a
                                        blessing at the table in good faith; both horrors upon horrors are to be
                                        experienced and seen; no one at home can form any idea of how things are; I
                                        thought that before I left home that I had drawn a true picture but I was
                                        mistaken. a picture cant be drawn; know man can tell all; I have seen men die in
                                        the Hospital and know [one] to lay them straight and they would [leave?]
                                        them lay on the cot on which they died on for to and
                                    
                              
                                 123
                                            Ibid., scrapbook p. 25.
                           
                                    
                                    three days before they would be burried; I will not write any more of
                                        this at this time; if I will ever get home I will tell it all to you;
                           124
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Andrew did the letter writing for other men in his company, his brother-in-law Samuel Hilligas for
                    one. The day after he wrote to Mary, Andrew helped Samuel write to the Hilligas family. Parts of the
                    faded letter are illegible, but the message is clear.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    I have no good news to write at this time, all the news that we get is
                                        horror upon horror It is the news here in camp that the western States are about
                                        to form a separation; or draw from the federal goverment and I heard that it may
                                        be the democratic party that is doing it but I cant think that it is so; and I
                                        hope it may be a false rumor for I cant think that the people of the western
                                        States would go against there interest and against us … in a way that
                                        would cause the destruction of the greatest army that ever the sun Shone on; it
                                        has bin Sayd and rumered in camp that if Indiana would draw off from the federal
                                        goverment wee would get to come home but I think they will finde it to be a
                                        mistake about going home for I think that old Abe has got us in his possession
                                        and he can hold us and take us where he pleases let the western States do as
                                        they are want to; but I am in hope that things will take a diferent turn when
                                        the next congress comes in session; I trust that the negro question will be
                                        … forever to never to be reserected again; I am getting more against
                                        the negroes every day. They are a detestable rase of man kind … made
                                        to be despised. But by some they are worshipt I hope the day will come when all
                                        men can view the Negro in his true light and place … that is where
                                        they are and the condition that they are in; I think it will … them
                                        the best; all that I have seen yet were well clothes and well fed and lived in
                                        good houses. I have never seen one living in a house that was any wors than the
                                        one that you live in; it kneed never be suggested to me any more that the Negro
                                        is fed on Cotton Seed and polk greens for I seen that it aint the truth.
                                    125
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            An undated letter Andrew wrote stated that his friends were ill and that debates in camp about
                    "the Negro question" were heating up.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    From A Bush. Dear Sir I am well and harty and hope this finds you all
                                        well and doing well; as for the present I have not much to right. They aint much
                                        Stir at this time among us only on the Negro question that brings forth words,
                                        Sometimes great quarrels. Wee have had
                                    
                              
                                 124 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, February 11, 1863,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                              
                                 125 Samuel Hilligas to John and Mary Hilligas,
                                            February 12, 1863, transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                           
                                    
                                    a good deal of sickness with us but the health of my regiment is
                                        improving. wee did not have a man to get excused by the doctor; Jacob Nihart
                                        isin the city hospital and is very sick with the tifoid fever I think it will go
                                        prety hard with him to get well. George Boon and Gabriel Hochstetler are getting
                                        better. I want you and Mary to do the best with my property that you can. I rote
                                        a letter to Mary yesterday and gave a statement of facts relation to the
                                        property; things that Jacob and Mother dont feel disposed to give up you kneed
                                        not bother yourself about I think that I will get home some time next somer and
                                        then I will get this all strate I will close by stating that James is well and
                                        all of the boys that is with us that you is acquainted with the exception of the
                                        fore named persons and those left back at Convalescent Camp. Direct as usual and
                                        dont forget to write
                                    126
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            In an undated letter, John Gardner argued to the folks at home that slaves hoping for escape from
                    their masters were pawns in the game of war.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           last december I was at Vanburen on the arkansas river we taken 4 steom
                                        boats and burnt them we got 30 mule teams 200 head of horses and a Bout 300 negroes came with us hunting freedom that
                                        is what hurts a rebel take negroes from him you hurt him wors than if you kill
                                        his son in battle You take [them] negroes so the rebels will
                                        have to come home and go to work but leave them negroes at home to rais corn and
                                        the rebels can lay out and bush whack for years I am no compromise man pin them
                                        to the wall if you compromise with them and you lay a [fou]ndation for a continual war I do not know that you are in for backing down but
                                        I read a letter from [illegible] that you said the north had
                                        violated the constitution how By electting abe 
                                            Lincoln
                                         for there president the south had elected every president for a
                                        number of years and because they could not Rule they thought they would ruin the
                                        best Government in the world downthen they [had?] laid the susesh egg it was
                                        laid long time ago too before any one thought of honest abe for
                                        president
                           127
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            An articulate young man, Ara Fraizer, pondered the news reaching his camp in the spring of 1863.
                    Writing to his parents on May 16, he began by reporting that he was recovering from an unnamed
                    illness, but he quickly turned to the politics of the war.
            
               
                  126 Andrew Bush to unknown, undated, transcript (private collection of
                        Gary L. Brown).
               
                  127 John T. Gardner to James R. Hicks and family, undated (private
                        collection of Mrs. Edward May).
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    it is with pleasure that I can say that I am ingoying better health
                                        than when I last wrote to you I hope when these few lines comes to hand they may
                                        find you all in good health and engoying Divine blessings to the fullest extent
                                        as I havent mutch to write I will say a few words on the negro subgect my views
                                        is this It is the pollicy of the administration at present to arm and equip all
                                        negroes who are willing and fit for the service, and put them into the 
                                            United States
                                         army theAdgutant General of the 
                                            United States
                                         is here now raising all the negro companies and regments he can,
                                        & I tell you, they dont come in slow, for he has raised five regments
                                        already, he has not been with us over two weeks, he has full power to grant
                                        commissions to white men as officers over them all those negroes who do not go
                                        in the army, are to be put upon the plantation of their masters who have gone
                                        into the rebel army, their to gain support for themselves and families, and see
                                        how it will seem to breathe free air awhile, & be masters instead of
                                        slaves—
                                
                        
                                    now no doubt, some of our copperhead frends almost swoon over such an
                                        abolition doctrine, and think it an unpardonable sin both personally &
                                        nationly, but I can endorse the whole plan, & with my hand upon my hart,
                                        say with strong emphasis-Amen! I can stand it very well to have the negroes take
                                        the place & property of their secesh masters & take their
                                        muskets & shoot them (if need be) for I certainly think more of a good
                                        union Negro than of any white traitor, be he whom he may I want to say a word or
                                        two, in as kind a maner as I can to some of those tender toed gentleman who are
                                        willing to stand still & for the sake of political strife, cry out at
                                        the top of their voices, stop the war! grant an armistice: never free the
                                        negroes-it is unconstitutional-it is not Democratic: it is a negro abolition
                                        war! now my opinion is that all this hue-&-cry is to try &
                                        discourage us, & to cause as many to desert as possible & as we
                                        are about to drive the rebels to their last hole, it is to give them time to
                                        fortify against us
                                
                        
                                    I want it distincly understood that I am for putting down this
                                        abominable rebellion, let it cost what it may: for I consider that I, with
                                        thousands of others, have left home, frends, & relations &
                                        everything that makes life Comfortable-& not only that, but periled our
                                        lives-for the sole purpose of putting down the rebellion, & to maintain
                                        this Government, the best that the world ever knew: & I know that it is
                                        not to gain political power or a great name or to get the Greenbacks: as has
                                        been said of us that I am here to-day: but it is to fight for the Union negro or
                                        no negro, I will tell you that we are not fighting in vain, for we are as sure
                                        to make the rebels get on their knees to ask our pardon, as that their are fish
                                        in the ocean or fowels in the air
                                
                        
                                    let me say in conclusion, that those who will stand back &
                                        dispute about political plans & measures & not give even their
                                        influence to the Union cause, but stand & quarel over such trifling
                                        things, when their country is in danger; who cry, I am for the Union; while
                                        doing
                                    
                                    
                              ARA FRAIZER
                              
                              Courtesy Erwin Neier, Cloverdale, Indiana.
                           
                                    all they can against it, &, at the same time, saying all they
                                        can to stop this war, when nothing but war will ever restore the Government as
                                        it should be: I say such men are too insignificant too associate with
                                        negroes-too low to be put on a level with jackasses-too mean to be counted
                                        worthy the dignity of a dog perhaps I have been too plain in my short speech but
                                        it is my mind and I cannot help but speak it
                                    128
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Ara may have intended his passionate expressions of patriotism to reassure his parents that his cause
                    was worth the price he was paying-the price they were paying as well. A month before, he had
                    received a letter in which his father had hinted that Rachel, Ara's mother, had changed.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Well Ara my son of all the long months it seems to me the longest since
                                        last August, we are all in very good health at present. I have got well of my
                                        cold, your Mother has altered the most I ever seen any body, she does not give
                                        me a cross word nor a sour look. I do not no what she
                                    
                              
                                 128 Ara Fraizer to Abner and Rachel Fraizer, May 16,
                                            1863 (private collection of Erwin Neier).
                           
                                    
                                    means by it. She makes the children go it about right. Jack Query got a
                                        letter from you last Saturday, dated the 16th of last month. I wrote you a
                                        letter the 9th of last month mailed at Cloverdale instead of Gosport. Dudly
                                        Singleton was brought home last friday from 
                                            Lagrange
                                         and was buried last Sunday at our meeting house and old Billy
                                        Wileys house was burned yesterday accidental.
                                
                        
                                    Send me some cotton seed a bushel or less send it to Gosport I could
                                        write more but I am afraid you will not get this much Write soon and oftener.
                                        May the Lord bless you in all your good undertakings, and act honorable in every
                                        respect
                                    129
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Ara himself was depressed and ill. In a letter from this period he told his parents of his efforts to
                    secure a discharge from the army.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    feeling somewhat better This morning I thought I would write you a few
                                        lines I received a letter a few days since and in answer I gave The rong month I
                                        hope These few lines may find you all well and getting along right as for me I
                                        have commenced To Try To get a discharge I do not know how I will get along I
                                        hope and pray I will succeed for I am Tired of suffering here as I have
                                    130
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Ara, weakened by disease, made it home to his Jackson Township family farm. He married Clara Angeline
                    Hunsicker in November, 1866, and they had four children. Ara died at age thirty-two, the year his
                    last child was born.131
            
            Writing sarcastically, Enoch and Thomas Alexander expressed to their brother-in-law their hope for a
                    quick end to the war: "we know that the Negrows is all freed and we all so now that old Abe
                    is a abolishenist he is a armen the Blacks as fast as he can Adjutant General Thomas is her now
                    making up Negrow Regiments as fast as he can and says he has ful arthority to make up as many as he
                    thinks necsary I guess they will soon clean the Sesech out."132
            
            From 
                        Mississippi
                     on August 7, 1863, Andrew Bush reported a quiet morning and stated, "I dont
                    think that the Rebs can hold out 
                  
                     129 Abner Fraizer to Ara Fraizer, April 3, 1863, transcript, in
                            Dorothy Mongerson, "The Fifty-Ninth Indiana Volunteer Regiment Through the Civil
                            War," unpublished collection of transcribed letters, collection dated May 20,1954
                            (Depauw University Archives, Greenecastle, Indiana).
                  
                     130 Ara Fraizer to Abner Fraizer, May 9,1863 (private collection of
                            Erwin Neier).
                  
                     131 Erwin Neier, interview with the author, Cloverdale, Indiana,
                            January, 1992; Erwin Neier, Cloverdale, Indiana, letters to the author, November 9,1992,
                            February 12, 1993.
                  
                     132 Enoch and Thomas Alexander to N. C. Allee, April 19, 1863,
                            transcript, in Mongerson, "The Fifty-Ninth Indiana Volunteer
                        Regiment."
               
                     here more than two or three days longer." Tired and
                    discouraged, he, too, focused his anger on the administration in 
                        Washington
                    .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           I am getting awful Hard of the Campaign it has been three months since
                                        we left Scottsboro Since then we have been exposed to the heat and rain without
                                        any tents to lie under; I wish that this war would end with the Campaign So that
                                        I could come home in time for the election to put one vote in against old Abe;
                                        for I think if he is elected the war will last four more years Some people think
                                        that the South cant hold out much longer but that is a mistake for the South can
                                        fight us for twenty years if they want to Some may think that this is all
                                    talk [illegible] but I can See the point wherein they can hold out
                                        but I cant See the point where we will Starve them out or whip them out for we
                                        cant do neither one nor the other
                           133
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    V "Rich Men Die Too"
                
            The men who enrolled in those first companies surely believed they would eventually confront enemy
                    fire, but they probably did not anticipate the most deadly enemies of all: contagious diseases,
                    dysentery, exposure, and fatigue. As early as October, 1861, a measles epidemic struck Camp Jim
                    Hughes, located just south of Gosport, where the 59th was encamped for the first winter of the war.
                    After the war, Lieutenant James W. Archer of the 59th wrote the following account as part of an
                    application for a disability pension.
            
                    
                  About sometime in last of Oct. or beginning Nov. 1861, 1 do not
                            remember precise date, the soldiers of the 59th Ind. Vols, in Camp at
                            Gosport Ind. contracted measles, We were in Camp in a Fair Ground, our selves and men
                            occupying the stock stalls, many of the men got very bad with measles from exposure. The
                            citizens of Gosport Ind. kindly offered the use of their houses for our sick men Many of
                            them were moved to said houses, from one or two to a half dozen perhaps to each house. I had
                            had measles in early boyhood, and as many of our Co. "A." boys were sick,
                            and moved to sd. houses, Capt. T. S. McNaught who was in command ofsd. Co. A. 59. Ind. vols, of which Co. I was 1st Lieut, ordered me to go and wait upon and look
                            after the care of sd sick soldiers. I did go and for several weeks continued upon said duty,
                            day and night, until sometime in Jany 1862. I finally broke down from the great fatigue,
                            exposure, labor and loss of sleep incident
                        
                     
                        133 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, August 7, 1863, transcript (private
                                collection of Gary L. Brown).
                  
                        
                        to, and absolutely nescessary in taking proper care of our said sick soldiers. As
                            part of said duty, I was in every house, at least once every night, where we had any sick. I
                            waited on them, gave them medicine, lifted them, turned them in bed, helped them up to
                            stool, washed the poor fellows, who had diarrhea in connection with measles and had lost
                            control of the discharges from their bowels, passed from house to house, looking after
                            nurses that they were watchful and careful, seeing that fires were kept up, (it was cold
                            weather part of the time very cold) seeing that medicines were properly given &c.
                            getting very warm, in the warm rooms, and in going out into the cold in a perspiring
                            condition, getting chilled, and constantly contracting cold thereby-This condition of things
                            continued for several weeks, combined with great strain of lifting, turning, and changing
                            men in their beds, finally broke me down in my back, and I had to give up and go to bed
                            where I lay for some days with great pains in my back &c.
                  134
               
                
            James W. Archer was the son of James M. and Margaret K. Dunn Archer. His family moved to 
                        Owen County
                     in 1840 and farmed for a few years. They then moved to 
                        Wisconsin
                     Territory, tried their luck in the 
                        California
                     gold fields, and several years later returned to 
                        Spencer
                     to engage in a variety of businesses.
            James volunteered for the Union army in September, 1861, and helped to raise Company A of the 59th
                    Regiment. The men of Company A called themselves "Alexander's Rifles" but
                    changed the name to "Noble's Rifles" when General Lazarus Noble sent them
                    three hundred Enfield rifles. Archer was elected first lieutenant and the following April was
                    detailed aide-de-camp to General N. B. Buford. Archer resigned in January, 1863, on a
                    Surgeon's Certificate of Disability.135
            
            Archer received the Congressional Medal of Honor for bravery at the battle of Corinth, 
                        Mississippi
                    . The citation recounted that Archer "Voluntarily took command of another
                    regiment, with the consent of one or more of his seniors, who were present, rallied the command, and
                    led it in the assault." According to the report filed by General Buford: 
                        [On the morning of October 4, 1862] the battle raged with great fury. In front
                                of us we saw regiment after regiment give way. Our whole front moved forward with the
                                accuracy, precision, and steadiness of a review. Every man exhibited the resolve that
                                not one foot of ground should be lost. The Forty-eighth Indiana was the first actively
                                engaged, when the gallant Lieutenant Colonel Rugg was first partially disabled by a
                                severe wound in the foot, and soon after totally by his horse being killed. My
                                aide-de-camp, Lieut, J. W. Archer, of the Fifty-Ninth
                            
                        
                           134 Affidavit of James W. Archer, July 2,1883, Archer Family
                                    File (
                                        Owen County
                                     Public Library).
                        
                           135 Blanchard, Counties of 
                                        Clay
                                     and Owen, 824–25.
                     
                            
                            Indiana, was at the moment invited by the senior captain, which was unanimously
                                confirmed by the officers to assume the command. He did not hesitate, and the regiment
                                preserved its steadiness and moved forward to victory.
                     136
                  
                    
                
            Letters from John W. Clark tell of his duty in a hospital in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C. John was a member of Company I, 19th Indiana. At first, his work in the hospital
                    was light, and he had time to see the capital. On June 4 and 5, 1862, he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        
                           Dear Aunt It is with pleasure I take my seat to inform you That I am
                                        well and hope these few lines will find you the same. It has been raining very
                                        hard here to day and has kept me from going out. A week ago I was out and
                                        "Old Abe" made a speech to the 12th and
                                        16th Ind. Vol. and it pleased them very much, the capital is the
                                        prettiest place I ever saw, you cannot see twenty yards in it for the pine,
                                        cedar and flowers. I have had quiet a nice time since I have been here.
                        
                        
                           There are about 75 wounded in this hospital but none
                                        in my ward. We are looking for some wounded to come here to day. They hoisted a
                                        flag on the courthouse yesterday for the first time since I have been here.
                        
                        
                                    June 5th 62
                                
                        
                                    The wounded have come and the surgeons are busy dressing the wounds.
                                        They are not seriously wounded. Some were put in our ward.
                                    137
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            A few weeks later John still seemed confident and happy, but his letter reported a serious turn of
                    events.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    It is with pleasure I take this opportunity of addressing you a few
                                        lines to let you know that I am well at present hoping that these few lines find
                                        you the same.
                                
                        
                                    The hospital is nearly full of men but they are not many very sick.
                                        There was seven hundred come to the city on the steamboat. Out of this number
                                        there was one hundred brought to this hospital.
                                
                        
                           I am satisfied here very well. I herd that my regiment, the 19th Ind. Vol. was cut up very badly but I dont believe it. I see by
                                        todays paper that Independence, Mo. has been taken possission of by the rebbels
                                        near 
                                            Lexington
                                        , Mo. No more at present. Write soon.
                           138
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  136 N. B. Buford, Medal of Honor report, August 2, 1897, James W. Archer
                        File, Alphabetical Card File of Indiana Civil War Volunteers, reel number 3 (Indiana State
                        Archives, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
               
                  137 John Clark to Aunt, June 4–5, 1862, transcript, Clark
                        Family File (
                            Owen County
                         Public Library).
               
                  138 John Clark to Uncle, August 13, 1862, transcript, Clark Family File (
                            Owen County
                         Public Library). The engagement to which John Clark referred may have been the
                        attempted raid on Frederick's Hall, 
                            Virginia
                        , in early August, 1862. The 19th Indiana and several other regiments were engaged
                        by elements of J. E. B. Stuart's cavalry and forced to retreat before reaching their
                        destination. Nolan, The Iron Brigade, 64–67.
            
            
            
               DANIEL, BEEM, BROTHER OF DAVID E. BEEM AND A FLAG BEARER IN COMPANY H, 14TH REGIMENT
               
               Courtesy Patricia Livingston, 
                            Spencer
                        , Indiana.
            
            John returned to the 19th in time to fight in the Battle of 
                        Antietam
                     in September, 1862. The 19th went into the battle with two hundred men. By the time it
                    ended, all but thirty-seven had been killed or wounded or were missing. John Clark was one of the
                    thirteen killed.139
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       Spencer
                                    , Ind.
                              
                           
                                
                        
                                    Dear Sister and Brother:
                                
                        
                                    I hope to inform you of the painful fact that my poor child has fallen
                                        in battle. There has been two letters received here that have the painful news.
                                        Chancy Patrick wrote a letter here that he had just buried John. He said he was
                                        shot in the back of his head. He said he
                                    
                              
                                 139 Beem, "Military History of 
                                                Owen County
                                            ," 640.
                           
                                    
                                    died instantly. It is a hard trial to be bereaved of an only son, but
                                        God has given me grace to say they will be done O God not mine but thine. They
                                        say he fought through several battles and in this one, Chauncy Patrick was
                                        standing by his side when he fell. I suppose he did not suffer an instant. He
                                        wrote in his last letter that he was back with his regiment for he was tired of
                                        hospital life.
                                
                        
                           A letter from sister Mary yesterday, from 
                                            Lexington
                                        , Mo. informed us of the murder of her poor son John. A band of
                                        rebbels took him and eight others prisoners and formed them in a line and made
                                        one poor fellow kneel and shot him. Then poor John Willims begged the rebbel
                                        captain for his life for he was a prisoner of war and he just siezed him and
                                        drew him up to him and fired off his piece killing him. Poor Mary thinks its
                                        enough to make the angels weep, to see such [barbarous] things
                                        and while they were gone to his burying there home was robbed and they
                                        emmediately moved to 
                                            Lexington
                                         but had to be guarded by scouts.
                        
                        
                                    
                                        Yours
                                    
                                    
                                        Emly Clark
                                        140
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Another poignant letter was one written by Moses Hewitt of the 97th early in 1863.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dear father an mother
                                
                        
                           I seat my self this morning to drop you A fiew line to inform you how we
                                        are gitting along Ifel as if I was lost I am sorrow to have to say to you that
                                        Alvin is ded he was taking on new years morning and that knigh[t] A bout 12 oclock he died he was taking with A chill
                                        he died with a sinking chill we buried him desent as we could he receive your
                                        letter but did not git to answer hit
                           141
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Moses had just buried his brother-in-law, Alvin Beaman. He wrote the brief letter to tell Samuel and
                    Lucinda Rogers Beaman they had lost their twenty-three-year-old son. A month later, Moses, too, was
                    dead, leaving an eighteen-year-old widow, the Beamans' daughter Charity.142
            
            In October, 1863, John C. Criss of Company A, 59th Indiana, wrote to his friend John A. Johnson from
                    the hospital at Jefferson Barracks near 
                        St. Louis
                    . He was recovering from wounds received at 
                        Vicksburg
                     three weeks earlier.
            
               
                  140 Emily Clark to Sister and Brother, undated, transcript, Clark Family
                        File (
                            Owen County
                         Public Library).
               
                  141 Moses Hewitt to Samuel and Rachel Beaman, undated (private collection
                        of Rachelle Liddil, Kirklin, Indiana).
               
                  142 Inventory of Effects of Deceased Soldiers for Moses Hewitt, February
                        19, 1863 (
                            Owen County
                         Public Library); Rachelle Liddil, Kirklin, Indiana, telephone interview with the
                        author, February 25, 1997.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           Dear friends I once mor take my pen in hand to let you know how my sore
                                        is getting it is know better my health is tolerbe good and my appetite is good I
                                        Can walk with cruces I left Vixburg on the 15 of last Month I
                                        was severl days Coming up the river I got very sick of it before I got up to
                                        Jefferson barricks ten miles below, St., louis on the river but it is a nice
                                        place for sick John we have some very Cold days here I think that they may bee a
                                        Chance to get a furlough I am getting tired of laying A round I wish I could get
                                        A furlough or could go to my regment I would like to see the boys I Cant tell
                                        where the regment is the last is seen them they was marching threw Vixburg going
                                        to Arcanses little rock [
                              Little
                                        Rock, Arkansas
                           ]
                                        and the next day or so I got on the boat and started to Memephis
                                        John I want you to write soon and give me the best knews and how Crops is this
                                        year I will Close for this time my leg pain me very much so I hope that you will
                                        excuse my bad writing and spelling
                           143
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Vint Anderson wrote that: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    We lost more men by chronic diarrhoea than by all other diseases,
                                        especially in a hot climate, and there the doctors can do but very little
                                        towards controlling it. Great knots will form on the bowels; they will discharge
                                        ulcerated matter and go to eating into the bowels until they ea[i] great holes
                                        into them, when the patient is bound to die. … When I first took it I
                                        was strong and vigorous and when I left the hospital after a three or four weeks
                                        stay I was only a wreck of my former self without vitality enough to stand on my
                                        feet a moment without assistence.
                                    144
                                
                     
                  
                Anderson saw sickness and butchery of the worst sort, and he described them thirty-seven
                    years later in his newspaper column.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           When the seige at Port Hudson began every day or two our hospitals,
                                        would have recruits from there, of the boys that would get wounded. None from
                                        our company came, but one day they brought in a young Irishman that had been
                                        struck in the eye and the ball had passed under the brain and gone out at the
                                        back of his head. Though fearfully wounded he was full ofLfe and would swear
                                        that he was not going to die and as he was placed close to me, we talked
                                        together frequently. The morning I left for home he was sitting up on the side
                                        of his cot and the nurses were dressing his wound by pushing lint through his
                                        head. It was an ounce ball that he had been struck with. I said to
                                    
                              
                                 143 John C. Criss to John A. Johnson, October 5,1863
                                            (private collection of Mrs. Edward May). Charles Powell of Pittsboro,
                                            Indiana, permitted copies to be made of this letter.
                              
                                 144 Anderson, "As a Private Saw It,"
                                            scrapbook p. 26.
                           
                                    
                                    him, good bye Pat, and he answered "Luck to ye, you will get
                                        well now that you are going to God's country, I will be going there by
                                        and by, they can't kill me, if they do stuff lint clear through my
                                        head." Some men would die with very slight wounds whilst it looked like
                                        others were not born to be killed and this boy was one of the latter.
                                    …
                        
                                    One day a man was brought in my ward from the siege at Port Hudson,
                                        having been wounded there with very sad news for me, by the careless thumbing of
                                        one of our gunners he had allowed the fire to stay in the gun. A wet swab is
                                        used to swab them out after each disharge. The gunner is provided with a leather
                                        thumb-stall. This is to be pressed down over the touch hole hard so as to
                                        prevent any air passing out at the touch hole, … but if air is
                                        allowed to pass out at this touch hole, it only fans the fire and when the
                                        powder is rammed down it makes a premature explosion. … The
                                        consequence was it exploded while the powder was being rammed down and one of
                                        our boys was killed and another had both eyes put out. … These
                                        comrades were both good, dear friends of mine, and when I heard of their death
                                        and injury I could not refrain from crying.
                                    145
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            During his stay in a hospital in 
                        New Orleans
                    , Vint was profoundly moved by the Sisters of Charity who attended the sick and wounded.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    One sweet girl in particular called forth my strongest sympathies for
                                        her. I say sympathies for I do not believe a just and a good God requires the
                                        sacrifice these nuns make for others. There was a young Catholic that was on a
                                        cot next to mine who died there; this sweet girl stayed by him the most of the
                                        time for several days before he died, and her kind face seemed to be a feast for
                                        him. … we believe that the man that can look into the eyes of these
                                        sad, sweet girls without falling in love with them ought to die, he has lived
                                        too long already.
                                    146
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Andrew Bush was a seasoned soldier by the time he wrote home from 
                        Georgia
                     on February 29, 1864. He was helping to "keep Johnson from reinforcing at 
                        Atlanta
                    . So that Sherman can do a nice job further south in the way of opening the alabama
                        River."147 He had seen the worst that man could do to man. He
                    wrote: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    Us boys are geting prety well ust to the sound of cannon and musketry
                                        for it is getting to be an every days business with us. War is an awful thing to
                                        take it all threw and I think that the devil was the
                                    
                              
                                 145
                                            Ibid., scrapbook p. 27.
                              
                                            146
                                            Ibid.
                                        
                              
                                 147 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, February 29, 1864,
                                            transcript (private collection of Gary L. Brown).
                           
                                    
                                    inventor of it. A man has got to get used to it like all other things;
                                        there isnt any pity or comfort to be had, espetially those that get sick see an
                                        awful time of it.
                                    148
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            On June 28, he described the aftermath of the Union assault on Kenesaw Mountain
                    in 
                        Georgia
                    .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           This note leaves me unwell I have not been well for several days past I
                                        have the cronick diaeorra and it is cutting me down prety slim …
                                        fighting is still going on yet here and is likely to continue for Some time yet;
                                        our regment was in and other of the murderous charge on yesterday but were not
                                        successful they were repulsed with a large loss to our regment. I Saw pass in
                                        the ambulances from our regment; I cant tell how many are kild or wonded but I
                                        supose the kild will equal the wounded. I will give the names of three that you
                                        are acquainted with that are kild George Smith, William Moore and orderly
                                        Johnson The wounded from our Company so fare as I have heard is James T. Dickey
                                        and Lorrance Wetherwax. they must have been more for those that were very
                                        severely [wounded] but could not get back and had to fall into
                                        the enemy's hands; the kilt were left where they fell. We are going to
                                        move our quarters this forenoon so I will come to a close until this evening and
                                        maybe I will learn more about the particulars. Nothing more has been learned
                                        only that George Smith and the Colonel of the Fortieth 
                                            Illinois
                                         are amongst the dead that are on the field of battle yet they are
                                        both lyeing clost together;
                           149
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Three months later, still in 
                        Georgia
                    , Andrew reported burying another friend.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    David Lower is dead, he died yesterday morning and was bueried in the
                                        eavening with the honors of war. We all fired a salute of three guns over his
                                        grave. Pore David is at rest he will not hear the roar of cannon or see the dire
                                        of Strife anymore on this world. He had the fever in the first place and was
                                        getting well he took the cronick diarrhera and his Constitution was not strong
                                        enough for to withstand the disease.
                                    150
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Nathan Collins Hicks, born January 5, 1829, was the third of twelve children of Jacob and Anna Beaman
                    Hicks. A farmer and school teacher before the war, Nathan enlisted in the 59th Regiment 
                  
                            148
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     149 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, June 28,1864, transcript (private
                            collection of Gary L. Brown).
                  
                     150 Andrew Bush to Mary Bush, October 2, 1864, transcript (private
                            collection of Gary L. Brown).
               
                     in 1862.151 Late in the war, he wrote
                    letters to his wife Nancy from the post hospital at 
                  Columbus, Kentucky
               .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    It is with great pleasure that I seat myself this pleasant morning in
                                        Sept To let you know that I am enjoying good health. Also trusting through the
                                        kindness of Him who provides for all our wants, That these few lines may reach
                                        you in due Time and find you and those little Children surrounded with many of
                                        the comforts of life.
                                
                        
                                    We are still blessed with a great many patients some of whom are very
                                        sick. There has been one death since I last wrote you, in the Hospital. Though
                                        the man was nearly dead when he came in He died within less than two hours after
                                        coming into the Hospital.
                                
                        
                           Sept 22nd 64.
                        
                                    Now I will try and close my letter this morning Being that I have a few
                                        spare moments. There was another young man died yesterday after I had written
                                        the first part of my letter. He was the son of a very rich man in 
                                            Chicago
                                         His mother came down about a week ago She set up every night with
                                        him save one To-day She starts with his dead body for home. The young man told
                                        me that their yearly sales of goods footed up six and ahalf millions and often
                                        two hundred thousand dollars a week. So we see that the rich as well as the poor
                                        must die and at last be brought upon a level.
                                
                        
                           We have nice fall weather now though some appearance of rain to-day. The
                                        hundred day boys are getting very tired and restless, their time of enlistment
                                        having expired and they wish to return home. I understand that the 14th 
                                            Iowa
                                         & 52nd Indiana Regts are coming to relieve the hundred day
                                        troops We are looking for them to-day or tomorrow. We would all be glad to see
                                        them come, for we are very tired of nursing children. Mrs. Carlisle is able to
                                        be around again, she is going to start home on furlough or leave of absence next
                                        Monday if no providencial hinderance.
                        
                        
                                    Now as my partner is sick and I have to wait on twenty odd, sick men
                                        alone, I have but little time to write and not much more to sleep.
                                
                        
                                    Not having found my pocket as yet, nor saw the paymaster I am not
                                        prepared to send you any money.
                                
                        
                                    But as soon as I draw again I will send you a few dollars Though I dont
                                        know whether we will draw before Nov or not. Give my best wishes to all
                                        inquiring friends
                                
                        
                                    And if I get time I will write more this week.
                                    152
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  151 Blanchard, Counties of 
                                Clay
                             and Owen, 848; Last Will of Jacob Hicks, July 9,1860, Will Books, book 2,
                        pp. 91–92 (
                            Owen County
                         Archives); Last Will of Ann Hicks, March 20, 1880, Will Books, book 3, p. 112 (
                            Owen County
                         Archives).
               
                  152 Nathan Collins Hicks to Nancy Jane Hicks, September 21–22,
                        1864 (private collection of Mrs. Edward May).
            
            
            Nathan also wrote to his mother but restricted his comments to weather conditions and encouraging
                    signs of peace. His letters to his sister Emerine, meanwhile, require some reading between the
                    lines. As other letters in this collection demonstrate, Emerine received attention from an
                    assortment of suitors. Nathan frequently referred to the competition for her affection.
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dear Sister …I dont know what I could write that would
                                        interest you Though there seems to be one thing on my mind which I will make
                                        known to you and that is this. You wrote me that you would, should or could, do
                                        so and so this fall, now I dont see it in that light but yet it may be so for
                                        there are a great may things that I cannot see, feel, hear, smell or taste these
                                        days, such as dried pumpkins, squashes turnips &c. Now I hope to hear
                                        from you soon and please tell me his name and what you think of him.
                                    153
                                
                     
                  
                Many of Nathan's letters also included joking messages to his youngest brother
                    Billy.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Good morning Billy, how are you sir, and how is that gal of yours and
                                        when were you to see her last. Is she good looking and can she come in When you
                                        get these few lines Billy I want you to set down and tell me all the
                                        particulars, and please excuse me for not writing more but I expect that I have
                                        already written more than you can read
                                    154
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    VI "I Have Indured Hardships a Nuff"
                
            Near the end of the war Austin Arnett wrote to Emerine Hicks from 
                        North Carolina
                    . Addressed to "Kind Friend," the letter repeated themes common in his
                    correspondence-weariness, homesickness, discouragement. Austin's regiment, the 59th, had
                    participated in Sherman's "march to the sea" from 
                        Atlanta
                     to Savannah and had stayed with Sherman's army as it drove north into the
                    Carolinas.
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           your kind and welcom letter was received to day and was truly glad to
                                        hear from you I cant write you verry much to day tho I will give you Some
                                        thoughts that has passed in the last 5 months we left
                                        Cartersvill on the 12th day of Navember last we traveld threw
                                        the State of 
                                            Georgia
                                         also St. Carlina also N C Carlina making over 8 
                              
                                 153 Nathan Collins Hicks to Emerine Hicks, October 6,
                                            1864 (private collection of Mrs. Edward May).
                              
                                 154 Nathan Collins Hicks to William M. Hicks, October
                                            6, 1864 (private collection of Mrs. Edward May).
                           
                                    
                                    
                              ENVELOPE USED BY AUSTIN
                                                ARNETT TO SEND A LETTER TO EMERING
                                                HICKS
                              
                              A FULL VIEW OF THIS ISSUE'S COVER
                                                ILLUSTRATION
                              
                              Courtesy Charles Powell, Pittsboro, Indiana.
                           
                                    hundred miles with out any Communication we don a Site of hard fighting
                                        and are perty near wore out we have Stoped at this place for a few days wrest
                                        and it Soots us verry well I cant tell you half I Saw untill I come home that
                                        wont bee long a litle over 4 months untill I will bee free and
                                        then I will Stay So I cant write you of any wedding whare I have been I am a
                                        fraid the Girls will all marry before I come home … I would like to
                                        bee with you at your good meetings I havent been to Church for over a year So
                                        when I get home I am a going to injoy my Self by visiting my friends and going
                                        to Church for I have indured hardships a nuffto injoy Some Satisfaction if I
                                        have luck
                           155
                        
                     
                  
                He expressed the same sentiments in another letter from this period.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    I am a looking forward to the time when I will get home I hope the day
                                        will Soon roll a round when I can meet my friends whare I can See Some pleasure
                                        and Satisfaction for I am tired of this kind of a life … but I will
                                        bare with patience and endure the time and Remember the past as long as I have
                                        to Stay I am a long ways from home and will bee further soon we are under
                                        marching orders … write soon to me and give me all the knews that you
                                        can think of
                                    156
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  155 Austin Arnett to Emerine Hicks, March 29, 1865 (private collection of
                        Mrs. Edward May).
               
                  156 Austin Arnett to Emerine Hicks, January 8, 1865 (private collection of
                        Mrs. Edward May).
            
            
            Austin was discharged at 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., on May 31, 1865. He farmed near Gosport but complained of chronic sore eyes the
                    rest of his life, a condition he attributed to a war-related disease. He died August 31, 1890,
                    survived by his wife Mary and four children.157
            
            By February, 1865, John Ruble had begun to hear rumors of peace, but fighting in the Carolinas
                    continued. He wrote to his wife Elizabeth: 
                  
                     
                        
                           this moring finds me well as comon hope thay may find you doing well I
                                        have bin out a vuing the works of fort fisher it is cuvered with Shells I am in
                                        camped on the Sand be twen cape Feer river and the atlatic
                                        ocan in north Carolina I dont no how long we will Stay here the trups is coming
                                        in Considerable I think thare is a fite on hand I dont no much what is gon on
                                        … we left richmon on the second of this month we landed on the 6
                                        dy of this month thare is grate talk of peace here rite whot you no
                                        a bout it rite how you make out I ancious to no I can stand it So fur very well
                                        … Sence I comenced riting thare is orders to move we are to have two
                                        days rashons in hour haver sacks I dont no whare we are a gone to …
                                        manage the place the best you can
                           158
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Finally, in April, there was reliable talk of coming home.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           the opinion is that we will Soon cum home to hour famleys this is sum
                                        hilley [country] here I dont think we will stay here long here
                                        I think the fiting is over corn is planted here doge wood is in full bloom we
                                        hant had a male for sum time … I hope the marching is over we haved
                                        dun Sum hard marching I hant much to rite to day but that I wod tell you whare I
                                        am thare is a big armey in camped here
                           159
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Nathan Hicks also wrote of leaving the army that April. He told his family that he expected to be
                    mustered out soon and that he looked forward to coming home. He was "getting tired laying
                    here," although the boredom had been broken by news of President Lincoln's
                    assassination.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    There are some big times here over the untimely death of Honest Old
                                        Abe, as he was use to be called by the party which put him in power.
                                    
                              
                                 157 Mary Watts Arnett, Declaration for
                                            Widow's Pension, Arnett Family File (
                                                Owen County
                                             Public Library).
                              
                                 158 John Ruble to Elizabeth Ruble, February 9,1865
                                            (private collection of Dorothy Childress).
                              
                                 159 John Ruble to Elizabeth Ruble, April 16,1865
                                            (private collection of Dorothy Childress).
                           
                                    
                                    But I cant see that we need to make such a great todo over him, as some
                                        make, for in my opinon, if, have no more as smart men, we have, and therefore if
                                        his place cant be filled from their ranks, let them try another good old
                                        Democrat, not a Butternut.
                                    160
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            David and William Hunsicker, sons of Jonathan and Mary Hunsicker of Morgan Township, served together
                    in Company B, 149th. In August, 1865, David wrote to his sister Angeline about coming home and
                    turned his thoughts once again toward farming.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           Deare Sister i now seat my self to write you a few lines to let you know
                                        that we are Both well and doing the best we can we thought that we would leave
                                        for Indiana the last of this month But it was a mis take but mis takes hant lite
                                        bread or we wouldn have to eat mutch Hartack But I think that there is no
                                        pasable chance for them to keep us out longer then a bout one month longer which
                                        want be long all i asque is to keep well and the time will soon Role a round i
                                        have had my health first trait since i come out mutch Better than i espected
                                        when i started i thought them if i was just as stout and harty as Bill i woulden
                                        mind to go But i havent benn sick nary day since i come out Bill has benn sick
                                        rite smart since he come out he had a hard time in the first place with the
                                        meesels and them he taken the ague a bout the last of June and has had severel
                                        spells of it since but the last spell he had was a bout 4 weeks a go and then i made him take quinine for severel days after wards and i
                                        think broke it in tirly on him he is on a perminent detail in 
                                            Decatur
                                         he come down here a sunday and went back this morning he says that
                                        he would reather stay there then here he look as fat and saucy as ever now i can
                                        here from him prety near evry day i am going up there Day after to morow i would
                                        have went up with him this morning But cap Haffa said that i had Better wait un
                                        tell day after to morow that we was a going to Be mustard for pay to morow and i
                                        had better wait tell after i was mustered and then i could go any time so a nufa
                                        bout that well i espect you have heard of the great axcident that hapent the
                                        other day the train broke thrue a bridg and fell a Bout 40 feet down and fell to the water in to 14 feet water Rite in
                                        on top of each other and calvin carter got his ledgs all mashed up so that they
                                        dont think that he can live there was a bout 300 men wimmen
                                        and children kiled and Drowted well the mail is going out now and i must quit
                                        tell Dady for fear that he ditentget my letter that i sent to him the other day
                                        that i never told Boyer that him nor no Boty els could have that mair so he nows
                                    
                              
                                 160 Nathan Collins Hicks to Anna and Emerine Hicks,
                                            April 20, 1865 (private collection of Mrs. Edward May). The term
                                            "butternut" generally referred to either Confederate
                                            soldiers or Confederate sympathizers in the North. Nathan Collins Hicks
                                            appears to have been a "War Democrat," no admirer of the 
                                                Lincoln
                                             administration but a supporter of the war effort.
                           
                                    
                                    that i want her taken good care of so he can do a bout it as he pleases
                                        but i would mutch reather that Dady would work her him self then eny Body els so
                                        i must close by saying that we are all well hoping when these few lines comes to
                                        hand the may find you all well so be shure and write soon
                           161
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            In 1884, Captain David E. Beem of the 14th Regiment chronicled the participation of 
                        Owen County
                     men in the Civil War. He described the experiences of soldiers in eleven different
                    companies. He wrote words of highest praise and gratitude for their service.162
                    Along with several other 
                        Owen County
                     officers, Beem at this time also began a fund-raising campaign to erect a monument to
                    the soldiers in Riverside Cemetery in 
                        Spencer
                    . Every man who served was to have his name inscribed on the monument. In 1939, noted 
                        Spencer
                     sculptor, E. M. Viquesney, designed a pavilion for that purpose. The Women's
                    Relief Corps of 
                  Spencer, Gettysburg
                Chapter, then erected a memorial imbedded with bronze
                    stars bearing the names of all 
                        Owen County
                     soldiers.
            Remembering the soldiers' return to 
                        Owen County
                    , Beem wrote: "these volunteers went forth at their country's call,
                    ready to die, if need be, in her defense. Such was the purpose that filled and thrilled the hearts
                    of the Union volunteers. It is no wonder, then, that when they returned they did so as fathers,
                    husbands, brothers, lovers, and sons, loving their country, their families and their God in the
                    highest possible sense."163 In spite of complaints ranging from chronic
                    diarrhea and rheumatism to debilitating blindness and the loss of limbs, most of the survivors
                    returned to their neighborhoods, churches, and families and resumed productive lives.164 Evidence of dysfunction is hard to find, but a few of the men may have returned so
                    altered emotionally that their family connections were beyond repair. The war may have contributed
                    to the sharp rise in the number of divorces granted in 
                        Owen County
                     in the years 1863 to 1867.165
            
            
               
                  161 David and William Hunsicker to Angeline Hunsicker, August 29,1865, in
                        Mongerson, "The Fifty-Ninth Indiana Volunteer Regiment."
               
                  162 Beem, "Military History," 660.
               
                  163
                        Ibid., 661.
               
                  164 Beem listed 153 invalid soldiers receiving pensions in 
                            Owen County
                         in 1884. Ibid., 662. Ten years later, another source listed 540
                        pensioned Civil War veterans living in the county. Enrollment of Soldiers, Their Widows and
                        Orphans of the Armies of the 
                            United States
                        , Residing in the State of Indiana, 
                            Owen County
                         for the Year 1894, transcript (
                            Owen County
                         Public Library). The 1894 enrollment was transcribed by Vivian Zollinger in 1991
                        after the original manuscript was discovered in very poor condition in the basement of the 
                            Owen County
                         courthouse.
               
                  165 There were sixty-seven divorces granted from September, 1863, to July,
                        1867, compared with thirty-four between July, 1859, and August, 1863, and with a similar number
                        in the four years previous. 
                            Owen County
                         Criminal and Civil Order Books, 7, 8; 
                            Owen County
                         Common Pleas Order Book, 4 (
                            Owen County
                         Archives).
            
            
            Surely every man remembered his visit to 
                        Indianapolis
                     on his way home. Beem wrote that "each regiment was received with an ovation
                    by the people and an eloquent address by Governor Morton."166 They were
                    returning as heroes who had saved the Union, and that identity endured long after the war was over.
                    One veteran, who returned without his right leg, went to work in his father's mill, farmed,
                    and reared a family; but his death certificate stated his occupation: "Old
                        Soldier."167
            
            
               
                  166 Beem, "Military History," 660.
               
                  167 Oliver H. Leonard, death certificate, April 12, 1919, Death Record
                        Book H-18, p. 25 (
                            Owen County
                         Department of Health, 
                            Spencer
                        , Indiana).
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               A Simple and Vital Design: The Story of the Indiana Post Office Murals. By John
                        C.
                    
                        Carlisle
                    . Photography by Darryl Jones. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1995. Pp. viii, [104]. Notes, illustrations, bibliography.
                    Paperbound, $24.95.)
            The New Deal offered many opportunities for unemployed artists, but the only art program with a major
                    presence in Indiana was run by the Treasury Department's "Section of Painting and
                    Sculpture." From 1934 to 1943, the "Section" handed out commissions for
                    murals in new federal post offices, using an innovative "one percent for the arts"
                    scheme that carved the cost of the mural out of the total construction appropriation. In Indiana,
                    thirty-seven mural commissions were undertaken. Astonishingly, thirty-six murals remain.
            John C. Carlisle, a professor of English at Purdue University Calumet, has studied these post-office
                    murals for twenty-five years. In A Simple and Vital Design his reckoning is
                    thorough and affectionate. The main body of the book is a catalog of the extant murals arranged
                    alphabetically by town for easy reference as a "field guide." Each site entry
                    gives a quick registry of important facts and a few pages of illuminating commentary based on
                    archival research. At the head of this catalog, 
                        Carlisle
                    's introduction explains the history and method of the Section. He shows a fine
                    understanding of the lofty intentions of the program and the comical, delicate, and frustrating
                    negotiations played out between artists, communities, and bureaucracy in the name of
                    "public art."
            Unlike the government's first and largest job-creation schemes for artists, which were Works
                    Progress Administration programs run with an emphasis on the relief of the workers rather than their
                    artistic skill, the Section awarded contracts to artists on the basis of merit. This system sought
                    local talent by soliciting entries only from artists born or residing in the region of the new post
                    office. The program also offered the community a work of art in a highly visible, public space and
                    so cultivated both emerging artists and the "national taste." To ensure that the
                    artists and the public met on common ground, the winning artist was asked to fine tune his or her
                    design with either the Section administrators or a local arbiter (often the postmaster). This
                    procedure promoted sensitivity to the local history, economy, and geography, but it also encouraged
                    conventional concepts and a stock "regionalist" realism; a modernist such as 
                        Milton
                     Avery found it hard to paint something suitable for 
                        Rockville
                    . Nonetheless, high standards generally prevailed. All of these murals were competent,
                    and some of them were very good.
            
            The appeal of the murals is enhanced by the clever design of this book, which features Darryl
                    Jones's color photographs. Traveling around the state with an old-fashioned panoramic view
                    camera, Jones teetered on ladders, struggled with architectural obstacles, and prayed for sunny
                    days. He photographed most of the murals in daylight to capture them as they appear to visitors
                    today. The resulting color plates are truthfully dingy, and they make a valuable addition to the
                    book's documentary mission. Both Carlisle and Jones remarked that their work drew the
                    attention of post office visitors who would admit that they had never noticed the murals before.
                    This book should awaken others to see them as well, visit them in person, and appreciate the social,
                    cultural, and economic benefits that flow from government support of the arts.
            KATHLEEN A. FOSTER is curator of nineteenth- and
                    twentieth-century art at the Indiana University Art Museum, 
                        Bloomington
                    . She has two books forthcoming in 1997: Thomas Eakins Rediscovered and
                        Captain Watson's Travels in America.
            
         
         
            
               A Home of Another Kind: One 
                            Chicago
                         Orphanage and the Tangle of Child Welfare. By Kenneth Cmiel. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1995. Pp. viii, 243. Illustrations, notes, tables, index. $24.95.)
            A commissioned history of an orphanage seems to promise a dull read, but Kenneth Cmiel has used the
                    voluminous records of the 
                        Chicago
                     Nursery and Half-Orphan Asylum to illuminate the history of child welfare in 
                        Chicago
                     over a hundred-year period in a wellwritten study that has much wider implications for
                    social welfare history than the story of a single institution.
            The orphanage was founded around 1860 and by 1880 housed one hundred children, all aged less than ten
                    years. Children were generally admitted because of family crisis; they were often brought in by a
                    mother and stayed an average of two years. Thus, in its first five decades the orphanage served
                    "dependent" not delinquent children. It was an institution for the working poor
                    founded and closely managed by upper-class matrons, the wives of 
                        Chicago
                    's business, legal, and medical elites. Chartered by the state in 1865, the
                    orphanage was privately run and funded until the 1960s. It began excluding black children after
                    World War I but readmitted them in the 1960s.
            The traditional, custodial orphanage was put on the defensive by Progressive-era child welfare
                    innovations such as the juvenile court and the "cottage homes" idea; nevertheless,
                    the orphanage survived with little change until the 1920s and 1930s, decades Cmiel calls
                    "the end of the nineteenth century." The home was still nominally managed by elite
                    women, but these suburban matrons now lacked the confidence of the nineteenth-century managers
                    (often their  own mothers and grandmothers) and sought the
                    advice of professionals on admissions and policy. In 1949, Chapin Hall, as it was now called,
                    entered a city-wide federation of private social service agencies.
            From this point on, Cmiel tells a story of decline and fall. The sense of loss and irony is
                    particularly evident in his account of what he calls "the unravelling"-the period
                    after 1963 during which Chapin Hall was first the beneficiary of state and then federal funding,
                    then suddenly in 1984 was closed down in the name of "deinstitutionalization" by
                    reformers who condemned as Victorian an institution that was in fact a fully funded, modern
                    treatment center serving as a therapeutic center for troubled youth.
            Cmiel provides a useful corrective to social welfare history narratives of "a progressive
                    elite ousting a Victorian elite" at the turn of the century (p. 207). His assertion that
                    "conservative institutions" like Chapin Hall far outnumbered
                    "cutting-edge institutions" like Hull House (p. 204) confirms other recent
                    scholarship on Progressive-era social welfare. Private associations to oversee and coordinate public
                    and private charities, notably the Charity Organization Society (COS), also predated the
                    better-known 1920s initiatives. Rationalized, bureaucratic social welfare emerged in the gilded age
                    and was led by reformers experienced in the Civil War era's 
                        United States
                     Sanitary Commission. In 
                        Chicago
                    , the Associated Charities, not the settlements, provide the prehistory for
                    twentieth-century social-work federation and bureaucratization, including the important
                    medical-social model of casework. The settlements, which turned social welfare inside out, putting
                    the reformers inside and leaving the clients on the outside, were, in contrast, a kind of
                    anti-institution.
            Cmiel's sympathetic account of the pre-1945 orphanage reflects in part the strengths and
                    weaknesses of his sources. These sources document the intentions of managers and professionals but
                    rarely the experiences of children, even when he supplements them after 1957 with psychiatric
                    social-work case records.
            The author sidesteps some opportunities to criticize the orphanage. For example, what are we to make
                    of Chapin Hall's 1870s "industrial training system" that produced a
                    division of labor where the girls darned "the socks of the asylum" (p. 24) while
                    the boys were allowed to find part-time work, presumably paid? This and other clues to the
                    orphanage's internal organization and conservative ideology go largely unexplored in a
                    study that focuses mainly on its external relations with private social welfare providers and public
                    regulatory agencies. Ellis Hawley's theory of an associative state provides a useful
                    framework for Cmiel's case study: the drama comes from the rise of private associations,
                    from the story of how "institutions without any ongoing accountability to the public [wound
                    up] …regulating agencies like Chapin Hall" (p. 83). Cmiel's
                    well-written  study makes a contribution to the scholarship on
                    the history of the private sector and voluntarism. Since it is also a story that resonates with
                    1990s Republican plans to turn over social services to state and local elites and to replace
                    entitlements with private charities, it is even more to Cmiel's credit that he makes a
                    reader raised on Charles Dickens's Hard Times feel a little sad at the demise of Chapin
                    Hall.
            RUTH CROCKER is associate professor of history at 
                        Auburn
                     University and the author of Social Work and Social Order: The Settlement
                        Movement in Two Industrial Cities, 1889–1930 (1992).
         
         
            
               Organizing the Unemployed: Community and Union Activists in the Industrial
                    Heartland. By James J. Lorence. (
                        Albany
                    : State University of 
                        New York
                     Press, 1996. Pp. xx, 407. Map, illustrations, tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Paperbound, $22.95.)
            In this "exhaustive analysis of the 
                        Michigan
                     unemployed movement in all its phases and expressions" (p. xiii), James J.
                    Lorence provides scholars of the depression era, labor, and the left with a well-researched,
                    institutionally focused history of organizations of the unemployed in 
                        Michigan
                     with special attention to the state's industrial centers. Through extensive
                    research in archival collections, the papers of private organizations, newspapers, government
                    documents, and secondary sources, Lorence documents developments in the unemployed movement in 
                        Michigan
                     and links them to changes in the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO), the
                    Workers' Alliance of America, and the national economy.
            The Unemployed Councils, which joined with the Workers' Alliance in 1936 and took the
                    Workers' Alliance's name, dominated 
                        Michigan
                    's unemployed movement through the time of the formation of the CIO. From 1930
                    to 1933, Communist-initiated councils effectively led demonstrations, marches, and protests, the
                    councils finding most success in 
                        Wayne County
                    . Throughout the 1930s, councils and the Workers' Alliance succeeded in leading
                    and participating in struggles for unemployed workers in the Upper Peninsula of 
                        Michigan
                     where, for example, in 
                        Gogebic County
                     the Workers' Alliance remained the voice for organized workers as late as
                    1938. In the late 1930s, the Workers' Alliance joined forces with other organizations of
                    the unemployed and with the CIO's growing industrial union movement. Even in the areas most
                    taken with the United Auto Workers' (UAW) programs for the unemployed, the
                    Workers' Alliance consistently helped organize non-unionized workers.
            By 1937, however, most workers in 
                        Michigan
                    's auto-heavy industrial regions turned to the UAW, which had become a major
                    organizer of 
                        Michigan
                    's unemployed. Lorence argues that by joining  employed and unemployed unionists in one organization, the UAW, part of
                    the CIO, created a socially conscious union. This union, through its Works Progress Administration
                    (WPA) welfare department, began in 1937 to advocate for unemployed union workers and by 1938
                    "moved to extend its hegemony over all WPA workers" (p. 290). From 1937 to 1941
                    the union, which included many Unemployed Councils veterans, successfully mobilized its department
                    of unemployed unionists to support union struggles, as in the successful Ford union effort of 1941.
                    In doing so, it curbed the threat that unemployed workers held over strikers.
            Within this story of the UAW's ascendancy lies the rise of leaders such as Walter Ruether,
                    the decline of Communist party influence in unemployed organizing, and the increasing
                    bureaucratization and marginalization of the unemployment movement once it was completely embedded
                    in the automobile union. Lorence skillfully maps out the debates and factional squabbles among the
                    variety of Socialists, Communists, progressives, and labor bureaucrats who molded the direction of
                    unemployed organizing in 
                        Michigan
                    .
            Lorence's conclusions concerning the social vision of the UAW and the 1930s origins of
                    bureaucratized industrial unionism, however, seem particular to the histories of the UAW and 
                        Michigan
                    . 
                        Chicago
                    's United Packinghouse Workers of America (UPWA), for example, with its broader
                    social vision that allowed it to successfully resist the statist vision prevalent in the UAW,
                    demonstrated that the UAW's path was not the only choice for unionists. Moreover, UPWA
                    unionists, Communist and non-Communist, remembered their Unemployed Councils experience as a lesson
                    in direct action tactics, which they later employed during shop-floor confrontations. These
                    observations aside, Lorence's study is an important contribution to the historiography of
                    unemployed organizing after 1935.
            RANDI STORCH is a doctoral candidate at the University of
                            
                  Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
               . She is
                    currently working on her dissertation, which analyzes the relationship between the Communist party
                    and 
                        Chicago
                    's workers from 1928 to 1956.
         
         
            
               Can Somebody Shout Amen! Inside the Tents and Tabernacles of American
                    Revivalists. By Patsy Sims. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1996. Pp. xx, 234. Bibliography. Paperbound, $17.95.)
            
               With Can Somebody Shout Amen! Patsy Sims, best known for her work The
                        Klan (1978), adds to the list of recent works on southern Pentecostal revivalism. In a
                    six-year period, Sims attended fifty revivals and taped over 225 hours of services and interviews
                    with participants. Sims has made a prodigious effort to evoke the atmosphere of the revivals. This
                    kind of work is notoriously difficult if  only because the
                    preachers are autonomous and differ sharply in their beliefs.
            The book is well designed with chapters on revivalists like H. Wayne Simmons, Tommy Walker, R. W.
                    Schambach, Ernest Angley, H. Richard Hall, Mike Shreve, and the snake handlers. The author recounts
                    a number of moving tales, such as the one about the preacher who tried to raise his son from the
                    dead. Sims observes that the revivalists' religion has not been created in a vacuum and
                    describes their theology as filling a void in the lives of the "emotionally barren poor and
                    dispossessed and [easing] the insecurities of a generation growing up in 'cultural
                    anonymity'" (p. xvii). Sims also correctly notes that the preachers of the
                    revivals have historical precedents. She claims that "These men of God sprang out of a
                    tradition that dates back almost two hundred years" (p. xiii) to the Great Revival. Perhaps
                    an argument could be made that the revivals reach back to seventeenth-century 
                        Scotland
                    . Much of the emotionalism that Sims finds today was present at these gatherings.
            Sadly, when Sims reaches Chapter Four she joins the ranks of authors (such as Dennis Covington) who
                    reinforce Appalachian stereotypes. She launches a humiliating attack on the snake handlers. She
                    shows little respect for her informants by conforming to popular images of mountain people. In the
                    case of Flora Bettis (whose name she misspells as "Beetis") her description shows
                    much haughtiness and conceit: "At fifty-six, three years older than her husband, Flora
                    Beetis was the epitome of a sturdy mountain woman, tall, lean, with hook nose, weathered skin, and
                    hair drawn into a bun that resembled a ripe boll of cotton" (p. 101). Having spent years
                    with Flora Bettis and her husband, Brother Perry, I have a much different picture of them than Sims.
                    Concerning Sims's condescending and hackneyed standards for mountain women, I am appalled!
                    My mother, aunts, and women cousins are from the hills of southern Appalachia and certainly do not
                    fit Sims's description.
            In presenting her chapter on the snake handlers, Sims uses some poor sources, and this causes her to
                    repeat errors made by earlier studies. She claims at least thirty-five people died from snakebite
                    between 1936 and 1973. Steven M. Kane and I have found fifty-three deaths during that period. Sims
                    also states that snake handling "was abandoned for more than twenty years in its East 
                        Tennessee
                     birthplace after the first of the faithful was bitten" (p. 113). This opinion
                    was launched by J. B. Collins in his 1947 work 
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Snake Handlers, in which he claimed that Garland Defriese's bite from
                    a rattlesnake in 1918 caused snake handling to cease for a period. In fact, many of the believers
                    had been bitten before 1918. Finley Goodwin and Tom McLain are only two examples. I have records of
                    others who were bitten before and after 1918. Sims duplicates many other mistakes.
            
            Sims does not footnote Collins or indicate how she reached her conclusion that snake handling went
                    into a dormant period in East 
                        Tennessee
                    . Many works that have appeared lately by these so-called "creative
                    writers" and journalists fall short of scholarly standards and are carelessly presented. I
                    understand that these writers want to reach a wide audience and their publications are not
                    necessarily written for academics. Regardless, certain rules apply that Sims neglects. Her work does
                    not contain notes, and her research sources are presented as a bibliography. After a close
                    examination, the bibliography should have been offered as a selected bibliography. For example, in
                    describing Carl Porter and Clyde Ricker's brush with the law in 1975, Sims simply uses the
                    phrase "According to news accounts." What news accounts? She does not footnote or
                    place them in her "bibliography." If these recent books by journalists are
                    presented by their publishers as academic or historical, then they should follow the scholarly
                    rules. Sims conducted her research almost two decades ago and was originally published by St.
                    Martin's. However, the work is presented here as if it were current. Like other churches,
                    Pentecostal/Holiness religion is dynamic and does not stay fixed in time. If books like Can Somebody
                    Shout Amen! are to be reproduced by scholarly presses, much revision and editing are needed.
            DAVID L. KIMBROUGH resides in 
                        Stanford
                    , Indiana, and is the author of Taking Up Serpents Snake Handlers of
                        Eastern 
                            Kentucky
                         (1995) and Joseph Tarkington: From Frontier Evangelism to Refined Religion
                    (1997).
         
         
            
               Recollected Words of Abraham Lincoln. Compiled and edited by Don E. Fehrenbacher
                    and 
                        Virginia
                     Fehrenbacher. (
                        Stanford
                    , Calif.: 
                        Stanford
                     University Press, 1996. Pp. liv, 592. Notes, index. $60.00.)
            Reminiscences, always necessarily present among the sources consulted by Lincoln scholars, are
                    finally attaining the respectability they deserve. Important evidence of this is the publication of
                    Don E. and 
                        Virginia
                     Fehrenbacher's Recollected Words of Abraham Lincoln. Calling
                    their book "a step toward the evaluation of a great body of source material and toward a
                    critique of its use by historians" (p. lii), the Fehrenbachers have assembled some 1,900
                    quotations as remembered by over five hundred informants. The result is a critical compilation of
                    the recollected utterances attributed to 
                        Lincoln
                     in contemporary or reminiscent sources. The Fehrenbachers' purpose is to
                    provide a comprehensive guide to things 
                        Lincoln
                     is remembered to have said, from extreme youth until his death, to serve as a companion
                    to the Collected Works (1953–1955), containing 
                        Lincoln
                    's speeches, letters, and memoranda.
            
            Mostly the Fehrenbachers have consulted published sources in their quest for 
                        Lincoln
                     quotations; in their bibliography of over four hundred items there is evidence of their
                    consulting just thirty-six manuscript collections. They consider the "high-grade
                    ore" of recollected 
                        Lincoln
                     quotations to be found in diaries, letters, and memoranda, sources in which 
                        Lincoln
                    's words were set down shortly after their utterance, mostly during 
                        Lincoln
                    's presidency. The editors have developed a guide to the evaluation of such
                    remembered utterances. Those cast in direct discourse and recorded contemporaneously receive a
                    letter grade of A, indirect quotations or paraphrases recorded contemporaneously receive a B, and
                    noncontemporaneous quotations (the majority of those compiled) rate a C. Quotations the authenticity
                    of which the compilers consider to be in some or extreme doubt are given a D or E, respectively,
                    though they are obviously not omitted altogether. Questionable quotations the Fehrenbachers consider
                    "germane to the evaluative process" (p. liii) and too important to the 
                        Lincoln
                     legend to be discarded.
            The unsurprising result is that the Fehrenbachers give high marks to 
                        Lincoln
                    's words as remembered by the likes of Orville Browning, John Hay, and Gideon
                    Welles in their diaries. The Lincoln quotations that they cite from the reminiscences collected by
                    William Herndon rate mostly C's because of their noncontemporaneity. They are more
                    skeptical of Herndon's own recollections of 
                        Lincoln
                    's remarks; they acknowledge Herndon's honesty but consider his memory
                    unduly influenced by intermediate events and his credibility compromised by a tendency to elevate
                    inferences and speculations "to the status of fact" (p. 238). Coming off less well
                    are works attributed to Ward Hill Lamon and Alexander K. McClure. Of the latter they write,
                    "Some of [his] recollections are so dubious as to cast a certain amount of doubt on
                    everything he wrote about 
                        Lincoln
                    " (p. 314).
            The compilers find a number of cherished 
                        Lincoln
                     lines to be questionable. One example, which originated with McClure, is 
                        Lincoln
                    's assessment of Grant after 
                        Shiloh
                    : "I can't spare this man, he fights" (p. 315). They are also
                    skeptical of 
                        Norman
                     Judd's recollection that 
                        Lincoln
                     defended his second question of Douglas at the 
                        Freeport
                     debate by saying, "I am after bigger game. The battle of 1860 is worth a
                    hundred of this" (p. 271). And they doubt Elizabeth Keckley's memory that 
                        Lincoln
                     feared that his wife might be sent to "that large white building on the hill
                    yonder" (p. 273) after their son Willie's death because the insane asylum in
                    question was not visible from the White House.
            This work will hereafter be indispensable, but it will surely be followed up by one or more
                    supplemental volumes. The Fehrenbachers would be the first to admit that they have not found all of 
                        Lincoln
                    's remembered quotes. More exist in the soon-to-be-published reminiscent
                    materials collected by William Herndon and in manuscript 
                    collections around the country, and a lot of "low-grade ore" also remains in the 
                        Lincoln
                     ephemera at the 
                        Huntington
                     Library and the 
                        Lincoln
                     Museum at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . But Lincoln scholars and buffs owe immense gratitude to Don and 
                        Virginia
                     Fehrenbacher for bringing together and giving order and system to this important body
                    of Lincolniana.
            RODNEY O. DAVIS is Szold Distinguished Service Professor
                    of History at 
                        Knox
                     College, 
                  Galesburg, Illinois
               . With Douglas L. Wilson he is editing
                    an edition of the letters and interviews about Abraham Lincoln that were collected by William H.
                    Herndon.
         
         
            
               Explicit and Authentic Acts: Amending the U. S. Constitution,
                    1776–1995. By David E. Kyvig. (Lawrence: University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1996. Pp. xx, 604. Notes, bibliography, index. $55.00.)
            This book is the first comprehensive historical study of the formal process of constitutional
                    amendment under Article V of the 
                        United States
                     Constitution. That David E. Kyvig presents this first study more than two hundred years
                    after the adoption of the Constitution suggests that the formal amendment process has been seen
                    neither as the principal means of constitutional development in the 
                        United States
                     nor as a feature of the system worthy of analysis. Kyvig disputes this judgment as a
                    historian, and as a constitutionalist he argues that the only truly effective way to alter the
                    fundamental principles, forms, and procedures of American national government is through the formal
                    process of amendment.
            The book is a straightforward account of the use of the Article Vmechanism from its inception and
                    original application in the adoption of the Bill of Rights to the long-delayed ratification of the
                    Twenty-Seventh Amendment, which in 1992 denied Congress authority to adjust its own salary.
                    Explaining the political and constitutional history of the amendments adopted, as well as
                    controversial proposals such as the child labor and ERA amendments that failed, Kyvig provides an
                    indispensable reference work for students of American history.
            Kyvig's work holds interest as well for critics and theorists of constitutionalism. Although
                    he does not say so explicitly, he challenges the long-standing idea that the Constitution is what
                    the Supreme Court says it is. Rather, the Constitution is what its framers and ratifiers declared it
                    to be. Kyvig recognizes that from an early date judicial interpretation of the Constitution became a
                    convenient substitute for formal amendment as a way of resolving constitutional problems. This
                    practice did not have untoward consequences in the nineteenth century, Kyvig says, because the
                    constitutional problems that were beyond the scope of judicial review were also beyond the reach of
                    the amendment process requiring supermajority consensus. These problems-the status of slavery and
                    the nature of the Union-  were "soluble only through
                    the constitutional revolution achieved by the Civil War" (p. 473).
            The problem with Article V was that at times the process seemed too difficult to apply successfully
                    and at times too easy. In the Progressive Era, for example, four amendments were adopted in a short
                    period of time, showing the Article V process to be an effective instrument of constitutional
                    reform. Only a short while later, however, this experience was disregarded by the architects of the
                    New Deal. Instead of passing an amendment that would establish beyond doubt and for all time the
                    nature and scope of federal responsibility for the nation's collective social welfare,
                    which Kyvig thinks could have been done, the Roosevelt administration decided its purposes would be
                    served by getting the Supreme Court to change its interpretation of constitutional law. Although for
                    a long time this seemed a satisfactory way to conduct a constitutional revolution, eventually it
                    meant that New Deal measures based on the public philosophy of statist liberalism were subject to
                    repudiation and repeal.
            Kyvig questions-but only a little-Franklin D. Roosevelt's assertion that constitutional
                    amendment was too difficult in the circumstances of the 1930s. He says FDR was afraid of the
                    constitutional arguments that Liberty League constitutionalists would mount against any amendment
                    intended to give the federal government clear authority to regulate the economy for the public
                    interest. Maybe this means Roosevelt lacked confidence in the arguments his lawyers could advance in
                    support of the New Deal revolution. The main weakness in Kyvig's interpretation of
                    Roosevelt's constitutional strategy is his failure to appreciate the extent to which the
                    New Dealers were persuaded by the teaching of the legal realists that formal constitutional texts,
                    principles, and structures were essentially meaningless. He admits that FDR saw the Constitution as
                    fundamentally irrelevant, "a stumbling block to be circumvented" (p. 306). This is
                    an accurate accounting, but it is not clear that Kyvig appreciates that the evidence shows Roosevelt
                    to have been an anticonstitutionalist in comparison to the constitutionalism of the founding.
            Kyvig's critical treatment of New Deal "legal-realist" constitutionalism,
                    even if he does not understand his discussion in these terms, is the most original interpretation in
                    the book. The Constitution really was an obstacle to the New Deal programs, even if the liberals of
                    the day refused to take it seriously. With no little regret, historians like Kyvig finally recognize
                    this fact. This perception, along with many other insights in this valuable book, leads Kyvig to
                    seek to restore the framers' original understanding of the manner in which the Constitution
                    should be amended and constitutional government maintained.
            HERMAN BELZ is professor of history at the University of 
                        Maryland
                    , College Park, and coauthor of The American Constitution: Its Origins and
                        Development (7th ed., 1991).
         
         
         
            
               Wanted Dead or Alive: The American West in Popular Culture. Edited by Richard
                    Aquila. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1996. Pp. x, 313. Notes, bibliographies, illustrations, index.
                    $29.95.)
            
               Wanted Dead or Alive consists of ten essays tracing the history of the media and
                    genres through which images of the West have been embedded in the popular imagination. This is not
                    to say that all the chapters deal with what is generally called "popular culture."
                    In the category of fiction, for example, there are separate considerations of the dime novel and the
                    serious novel about the West. The visual arts section includes paintings by eminent figures in
                    American art as well as the anonymous producers of the boots-and-saddles imagery of 
                        Madison
                     Avenue. A book on the West is not the ideal venue in which to determine where the
                    boundary between culture and popular culture ought to be drawn, and there is little effort made here
                    to sort out the reasons why that border ought to be especially permeable where cowboys, Indians, and
                    wide open spaces are concerned.
            The editor's reluctance to narrow the field is the reader's gain, however, because
                    the book contains all manner of fascinating Westiana, including commentary on fiction (high and
                    deliciously low), visual imagery of every kind, Wild West shows, rodeos, reenactments, good movies,
                    B movies (or "horse operas," usually in black and white), TV
                    "oaters," and western themes in popular music and country music. Nor are these,
                    for the most part, impressionistic treatments of their respective themes. Instead, authors provide
                    thoroughly documented mini-histories of their areas of expertise-from the first known Wild West
                    "blowout" (1882, in 
                  North Platte,
                            Nebraska
               ) to last summer's crop
                    of "mountain man rendezvous" held throughout the Middle and Far West. Most authors
                    conclude with a bibliography of authoritative sources.
            While useful to newcomers to the subject, scholars might wish for something a little more
                    adventurous-and less repetitious of the same chronological sequence of events punctuated by the same
                    cultural landmarks (thanks to the format, the publication of Owen Wister's The
                        Virginian in 1902 and the release of Edwin S. Porter's seminal film, The Great Train Robbery, in 1903 are discussed over and over again). A comparative
                    approach to the old chestnuts of western lore might have been more interesting. I longed to know if
                    or how the themes of John Ford westerns of the years after 1939 (Stagecoach, for
                    example) deviated from the content of non-western war pictures, comedies, and romances. I also
                    wanted to know how "important" novels dealt with the conflicts and natural
                    settings also employed by Louis L'Amour.
            It is clear that all the essayists have been influenced by the "New Western
                    History." They take their popular culture very seriously. Words like
                    "commodification" turn up frequently. But they are not  equally interested in American popular culture's exuberant
                    reaction to the popular culture of the West. One searches in vain for mention of Jane and Michael
                    Stern's bestselling analysis of the postwar cowboy ethos, Way Out West (1993). And it is a
                    pity, since the Sterns include so many of the bodily pleasures of westering: their chapters on chili
                    and buying cowgirl (or cowboy) outfits are definitive. Perhaps the joy and make-believe the Sterns
                    define as popular culture are not readily digested by the analytical machinery of the New Western
                    History.
            KARAL ANN MARLING teaches popular
                    culture at the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    . Her most recent book is Graceland: Going Home with Elvis (1996). A
                    volume on 
                        Norman
                     Rockwell will be published this year.
         
         
            
               Living Our Stories, Telling Our Truths: Autobiography and the Making of the
                        African-American Intellectual Tradition. By V. P. Franklin. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1995. Pp. 464. Illustrations, notes, index. Paperbound,
                    $16.95.)
            Lytton Stracheys observation that biographies tend to degenerate into what he called a
                    "funereal barbarism"-ponderous and much too voluminous-is equally applicable to
                    studies of autobiographies, with one important difference: those telling their life story get to
                    pick and choose what they want us to know. How, then, does an intellectual history, as this is, keep
                    its distance from such autobiographical traps? V. P. Franklin boldly ignores these concerns, and the
                    result is a study that ranges widely over one hundred years, tracing the origins and contours of the
                    African-American intellectual tradition.
            Based on the lives, if not the life stories, of twelve major figures from Alexander Crummell in the
                    nineteenth century to the powerful congressman Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., in the twentieth, 
                        Franklin
                     argues for autobiography as "the most important literary genre in the
                    African-American intellectual tradition in the 
                        United States
                    " (p. 11). Bearing witness against American oppression, authors used
                    autobiographies largely for ideological and political purposes: to vindicate the race, as in the
                    case of Crummell; in an effort to save America from its worst self, as did James Weldon Johnson; or,
                    finally, as Harry Haywood did in the service of liberation. These works, 
                        Franklin
                     argues, explore "the nexus between personal experience and ideological
                    development" (p. 24). It is this, he insists, that sets the genre apart from any other kind
                    of exploration. Here matters of "truth" are (as it were) in the eyes of the
                    author, the result of a special set of experiences, and not some abstract statement of historical
                    accuracy. It is for this reason that 
                        Franklin
                     dismisses as largely irrelevant the criticisms of those biographers of Crummell who
                    insist that he painted a rather distorted picture of his missionary activities in 
                        Liberia
                    . For 
                        Franklin
                     such bending of history is largely immaterial when discussing  how Crummell saw the world; what Crummell claimed to be the truth was
                    the truth.
            Historians are taught to resist efforts of autobiographers to lead them where they will. They are
                    obligated to determine, for instance, if Ida B. Wells-Barnett's recollection of what
                    occurred during her visit to 
                        England
                     was accurate. Granted all memory is selective, but what one chooses to remember
                    matters. Nowhere, for instance, in his account of his years in consular service does James Weldon
                    Johnson broach the question, uncomfortable though it may be, of how one could act as a
                    representative of an imperial power that at home denied one's race basic human rights. And
                    if experience matters, as 
                        Franklin
                     rightly insists, Johnson's service to his country, in spite of all that was
                    going on at home, may help explain his abiding faith in the principles of equality for which the 
                        United States
                     stood. And again, if W. E. B. DuBois used personal experience "to illuminate
                    and clarify important matters of principle" (p. 230), I wonder why 
                        Franklin
                     does not discuss the "truth" of James Baldwin's
                    homosexuality.
            Pressed for space and fearful of rambling reviewers, editors are loathe to assign more than five
                    hundred words to a review. Generally, that is a blessing, but in this case this book raises so many
                    issues of significance to African-American history that the freedom to roam wider would have been
                    appreciated. 
                        Franklin
                     takes his readers on an exciting intellectual excursion during which we are prodded to
                    engage a wide range of issues. Although divided into largely discrete chapters, the whole is greater
                    than the sum of its parts, and that is to 
                        Franklin
                    's credit.
            R. J. M. BLACKETT, a former editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, holds the Moores Chair of History and African-American Studies at the University
                    of 
                        Houston
                    .
         
         
            
               Free to All: Carnegie Libraries & American Culture,
                    1890–1920. By Abigail A. Van Slyck. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1995. Pp. xxvii, 276. Illustrations, figures, graphs, table, appendices, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $47.50.)
            Abigail Van Slyck takes as her subject those American cultural icons, the Carnegie libraries.
                    Millions of Americans hold cherished memories of time spent within their walls, and many, in all
                    likelihood, harbor the conviction that if you have seen one, you have seen them all. 
                        Van
                     Slyck quickly disabuses one of this assumption. Using material culture "as
                    important primary evidence" (p. xxii), 
                        Van
                     Slyck advocates replacing taste as the basis of architectural history with
                    "scholarly analytical skills that can be taught and that can be learned" (p.
                    xxiii).
            This study embraces the period from 1890 to 1920 when Carnegie grants, based on the fortune of steel
                    baron Andrew Carnegie, underwrote the construction of 1,679 buildings in 1,412 communities across
                         America. 
                        Van
                     Slyck ranges widely for illustrations, but her research concentrates on thirteen cities
                    and towns representative of the diverse environments in which Carnegie funds were used. One such
                    town, 
                        Union City
                    , Indiana, received its $10,000 grant before 1908, when Carnegie policies
                    began to require a design review.
            These early grants were made in the paternal spirit common to late nineteenth-century philanthropy.
                    But as Carnegie's "tainted money" came under attack from critics of big
                    business, he shifted from outright charity to an emphasis on shared responsibility. He required
                    communities to provide building sites and to tax themselves to pay operating expenses. In 1911
                    Carnegie fully embraced the corporate model of charitable giving by creating the Carnegie
                    Corporation to oversee his library enterprises.
            The key figure in this work was Carnegie's personal secretary, James Bertram, who became the
                    channel through which requests were received and evaluated, architects assigned, community
                    responsibilities mediated, and construction work evaluated. Bertram's experiences led him
                    to favor the position taken by newly assertive library professionals over those taken by architects
                    in matters of access, control, shelving, and the like. To this extent, therefore, Bertram and the
                    Carnegie grants played an important role in the development of the professional librarian.
            
               
                        Van
                     Slyck describes how Carnegie practices contributed to the shift from the monumental
                    architectural styles of the late nineteenth century to the more utilitarian styles characteristic of
                    most Carnegie libraries. She sees the ornate, monumental, treasure house aspects of earlier library
                    buildings as a metaphor for the social assumptions of the donors. Market forces and professional
                    librarians, on the other hand, would lead the twentieth century move toward utilitarianism, a move
                    that created buildings better suited to the needs of library staff and users. This discussion is
                    greatly enhanced by excellent illustrations of building exteriors, interiors, and floor plans.
            Much attention is given to library location in big cities where, says 
                        Van
                     Slyck, the male-dominated power elite opted for large central library buildings located
                    adjacent to the business district where they would reinforce the centrality of that district in the
                    city's business life. Branch library buildings were most often located in or adjacent to
                    middle-class residential districts close-by those who, it was assumed, would be their principal
                    users. In smaller towns, however, 
                        Van
                     Slyck finds that middle-class women, having assumed cultural leadership, campaigned for
                    libraries so located as to reinforce the distinction between commerce and culture.
            The late chapters focus on the special needs and concerns of women and children. It is difficult to
                    document this discussion because firsthand accounts of library use by these groups are relatively
                    rare.
            Throughout this imaginative study, 
                        Van
                     Slyck's analytical framework leaves little room for those who would claim that
                    developments  to which she attaches class or gender values rest
                    to a large degree on common sense. Would big city libraries be better had they been located in
                    marginal economic districts? Why should branch libraries not be concentrated in locations convenient
                    to their primary users? Was it inappropriate for library designers and professionals to expect
                    immigrants to conform to the expectations of the middle-class society that made libraries possible? 
                        Van
                     Slyck suggests answers, but a more complete discussion would probably result in a
                    second book.
            The evolution in our understanding of what a library is and should be continues today. Like schools,
                    libraries are now expected to provide a breadth of services not realized in Carnegie's era,
                    but their evolution into broadly based service organizations accessible to all owes much to the
                    pioneering efforts of the Carnegie initiatives.
            GEORGE W. KNEPPER is Distinguished Professor of History
                    Emeritus at the University of Akron. He is currently revising his most recent book, 
                  
                            Ohio
                         and Its People (1989).
         
         
            
               National Parks and the Woman's Voice: A History. By Polly Welts
                    Kaufman. (Albuquerque: University of New 
                        Mexico
                     Press, 1996. Pp. xvi, 305. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $42.50.)
            Readers today may not be surprised to learn that women have played a more substantial role in the
                    development and management of the National Park Service than many historians, agency managers, and
                    others have recognized. Likewise, few readers will find it surprising that women were more often
                    than not resisted or opposed (or at the very least not supported) in the drive to establish more
                    equal places for themselves within the Park Service. Still, some historians may welcome Polly Welts
                    Kaufman's well researched, written, and illustrated book documenting the achievements of
                    the many talented, conscientious, and determined women who have contributed to what the author
                    regards as the agency's success in meeting its mission of preserving and enhancing public
                    appreciation of the country's natural and cultural resources.
            The author documents the experiences of a diverse group of women, beginning with those who explored
                    the Yosemite Valley and other future park sites during the nineteenth century.
                    She then describes the roles women played in advocating the creation of various parks, and she shows
                    how early women professionals fared in what she describes as a male-oriented military culture.
                    Kaufman contends that the agency "lost its will to hire women professionals" after
                    1933 (p. 83) and that until the 1960s women most often contributed to the agency as wives of staff,
                    sometimes individually and sometimes in groups. Women then began to assert themselves as knowing
                    advocates outside the agency (including Indiana women  who
                    helped create Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore) and as capable professionals, managers, and workers
                    within it-all for the betterment of the National Park Service and the public it serves.
            Unfortunately, the author does a much better job of celebrating her subject than analyzing the many
                    complex issues that surround it. Kaufman's fundamental contention that Park Service culture
                    has been confused from the start by its two conflicting subcultures-"the military
                    ethos" (in other words, male culture) and "the public communications
                    approach" (female culture)-seems a bit thin and is never firmly established. She idealizes
                    women's culture with a seemingly endless stream of vague and platitudinous statements
                    ("The women who worked independently of the Park Service valued the continuation of life
                    most of all." p. xiv), while she dismisses male culture as rigid, undemocratic, and somehow
                    at odds with the agency's mission. One ultimately wonders what good the male culture will
                    contribute to Kaufman's proposed synthesis of the two cultures, something she suggests as a
                    worthy goal.
            The author certainly deserves recognition for her extensive research efforts, especially the hundreds
                    of interviews she conducted with Park Service women (and her incorporation of the work done by
                    Dorothy Huyck before her), but again, Kaufman's failure to analyze the material critically
                    often leads to the confusion of women's aspirations and achievements. Not surprisingly, no
                    woman in the book fails or performs poorly in her work, just as no woman participates in development
                    projects or inholders groups opposed to Park Service interests. Not surprisingly, too, there are few
                    if any interviews with men-certainly none that would provide a personal or real voice to the
                    unreasonable opposition to women's culture that Kaufman routinely assigns to the male power
                    structure. Obstructionist men tend to be stereotyped as insecure, threatened, and afraid (there is
                    even an index listing for "feminization, fear of on page 296), while the motivations of
                    supporters like Horace Albright are equally impersonal and unclear.
            Ultimately, Kaufman seems so determined to celebrate women's achievements that she misses
                    the opportunity to analyze political or class differences among the subjects (members of the
                    Daughters of the American Revolution who supported early right-wing preservation efforts are
                    essentially undifferentiated from late twentieth-century feminists, for example), and she ends up
                    demonstrating relatively little appreciation for the possibility that National Park Service culture
                    might be affected by anything more than gender relations. Certainly, gender is a critical issue to
                    consider when studying the Park Service or organizations like it, but we learn as little by
                    exaggerating its importance as we do by undervaluing it.
            ROBERT WEIBLE is chief of the division of history for the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Historical and Museum Commission in 
                  Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
               . He
                    was previously historian at 
                        Lowell
                     National Historical Park in 
                        Massachusetts
                    .
         
         
         
            
               A Lynching in 
                            Marion
                        . Produced by Wisconsin Public Television, 1995. 30 minutes. (PBS Video, 1320
                    Braddock Place, 
                        Alexandria
                    , Vir. 22314. Telephone 1–800-344–3337. $39.95, plus
                    $6.00 shipping.)
            This thirty-minute documentary is one man's story of one of the most tragic events in
                    Indiana's history. On August 7,1930, a mob of angry whites broke three black teenagers out
                    of the 
                        Grant County
                     jail. The mob believed that James Cameron and his two young friends, Abe Smith and Tom
                    Shipp, had murdered Claude Deeter and raped Mary Ball as the couple were parked in the
                    lovers' lane along the Mississinewa River south of 
                        Marion
                    . The vengeance-seekers brutally beat Shipp and Smith and lynched them from a tree on
                    the courthouse square. Dragged to the same lynching tree, James Cameron, aged sixteen, miraculously
                    survived, spared at the last minute, he says, because "a voice from heaven" rang
                    out and stopped the violence. Cameron served a prison sentence and has lived an exemplary life
                    since. He has spent much of his time in recent years telling the story of the 
                        Marion
                     lynching, first in book form (A Time of Terror, 1980, revised
                    edition, 1994) and now in this public television documentary.
            Cameron is a powerful storyteller, and the documentary filmmakers use his talents skillfully. An old
                    man now, he speaks on camera with precise detail and with regret, humility, emotion, and tears. The
                    camera follows him through the corridors of the now deserted 
                        Grant County
                     jail. He points to the cell that held him and to the rusted bars that only briefly kept
                    the mob out. At several points, the screen fills with the gruesome Lawrence Bietler photograph of
                    the bodies of Smith and Shipp hanging from the tree and the crowd milling about below, a photograph
                    that may be the most powerful and famous lynching photograph in American history. The viewer cannot
                    but be moved and angered by the story Cameron tells.
            
               A Lynching in 
                            Marion
                        
                describes the events of August 7, 1930, in a compelling manner. The historian
                    can quibble about some details presented, but the problems are far more serious than who fired the
                    gun that killed Deeter or how many citizens were in the mob. As moving as the story is, this film
                    fails miserably in explaining the contexts, causes, and meaning of the lynching. It is utterly
                    ignorant of the time and place in which this tragedy occurred, and it falls into the trap of dumping
                    blame on the Ku Klux Klan-and thereby avoiding the real issues of race in Indiana. Viewers gain the
                    impression that Indiana equaled the Klan in the 1920s and that the Indiana Klan equaled lynchings.
                    There is no acknowledgement that the organized Klan was dead by August 7, 1930. There is no
                    recognition that no evidence exists to connect the Klan to any lynching at any time in Indiana.
                    Rather than the broad and deep understanding of the Indiana Klan provided in Leonard
                    Moore's book, Citizen Klansmen
                     (1991), the viewer gets only simplistic sound bites of a
                    supposed Klan lynching.
            Nor does the film sort out the significance of place. Viewers are told of thousands of lynchings in
                    America. But they are not told that after a lynching in Indiana in 1903 the next one, in 
                        Marion
                     in 1930, was also the last one in the state. That there were indeed hundreds of
                    lynchings elsewhere in twentieth-century America is an important story but one that needs to be set
                    more precisely in time and place. Nowhere does the film suggest the important point that the 
                        Marion
                     lynching was so unusual because it was so late in time and so far north.
            Contexts of time and place are essential to begin to understand the larger tragedy of the 
                        Marion
                     lynching, more tragic than this film suggests. Rather than simple answers that blame
                    the Klan we need to understand the more complex matter of race and the color linethat fluid,
                    sometimes subtle, sometimes soft, sometimes angry line that white Hoosiers drew to deny black
                    Hoosiers full participation in so many aspects of life. We need to understand the simplicity and the
                    mystery of white fear and hatred. We need to understand, too, how some black Hoosiers and some white
                    Hoosiers in 
                        Grant County
                     and elsewhere fought against the racism represented in this lynching and against racism
                    in its more pervasive and subtler forms. The 
                        Marion
                     lynching can help us understand those central issues of race, but not as told in this
                    superficial, ahistorical documentary film.
            JAMES H. MADISON is professor and chair, Department of
                    History, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is at work on a book about race in the twentieth century in which the 
                        Marion
                     lynching is a key part.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Onliest One Alive: Surviving Jonestown, 
                            Guyana
                        . By Catherine (Hyacinth) Thrash, as told to Marian K. Towne. (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Ind.: Marian K. Towne, 1995. Pp. xvi, 140. Illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $8.00. Order from the author, 5129 N. Illinois Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , IN 46208.) In July of 1977 Hyacinth Thrash and her sister Zipporah Edwards, long-time
                    followers of the Reverend Jim Jones, arrived in 
                        Guyana
                    . Little more than a year later "Zip" and 912 other people were dead,
                    and Hyacinth was one of the few survivors of the mass murder/suicide which shocked the world. From
                    more than sixty hours of interviews, Marian K. Towne has assembled the personal history of an
                    elderly black woman who was born in 
                        Alabama
                    , spent the 1920s through the 1950s in segregated 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and joined a church led by Jim Jones in 1957. The first part of Thrash's
                    memoir reveals much about working class black life in a segregated northern city and suggests why
                    Jones, an early proponent of integration and a community activist, appealed to so many people. The
                    second part of the book details the growing level of control Jones exercised over his followers and
                    finally the extreme isolation and appalling living conditions of Jonestown. Scholars such as David
                    Chidester have offered theoretical models for understanding what happened at Jonestown;
                    Thrash's memoir adds the poignant detail of personal experience. Dawn E.
                        Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               A Short History of Indiana Limestone. By Bill McDonald. (
                        Bedford
                    , Ind.: 
                        Lawrence County
                     Tourism Commission, 1995. Pp. iv, 64. Illustrations, figures, graphs, appendices,
                    table, index of illustrations. Paperbound, $3.50. Order from 
                        Lawrence County
                     Tourism Commission, (812) 275–7637.) The full history of the Indiana
                    limestone industry remains to be written, but Bill McDonald has provided an exceptionally important
                    contribution. McDonald's short account surveys the industry from its crude beginnings to
                    its rise to large prominence by 1900. He shows how the Indiana stone belt, about two miles by thirty
                    miles, from 
                        Bloomington
                     to 
                        Bedford
                    , produced much of the nation's building materials, including the stone for
                    twenty-seven state capitols (Indiana's of course, among them), the Empire State Building,
                    and the Pentagon. McDonald's treatment of the technolocy and business side of limestone is
                    fullest, and he devotes considerable attention to architectural contexts. There is less attention to
                    the workers, the local farmers and immigrant laborers, the carvers and mill men, their families and
                    their lives outside the mills and quarries. In sixty-four pages, however, Bill McDonald has produced
                    the best published account of this fascinating and multifacted industry. James H.
                        Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
