
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 90, Issue 1, pages 1-108. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:90+issue:1+year:1994&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Battling the Great Depression on Stage in Indiana
            George T. Blakey*
            The Federal Theatre Project (FTP) during the 1930s was, in many respects, a typical New Deal response
                    to the economic crisis of the Great Depression. It was an experiment to create jobs for the
                    unemployed—in this case theater people, including actors, directors, and technical crew.
                    The federal government initiated, financed, and regulated the project, and the American public
                    enjoyed its results in a variety of dramatic productions at minimal cost. In the end the FTP, like
                    so many other New Deal programs, became embroiled in partisan controversy and expired before it
                    could prove its potential or leave a significant legacy. Indiana's participation in the FTP
                    was not unlike that of the other thirty states, and the 
                        District of Columbia
                    , which hosted this New Deal experiment, but it did differ in two major ways. Whereas
                    most state projects assumed an almost passive role and followed federal directives,
                    Indiana's chartered an almost autonomous course often in conflict with national wishes. And
                    whereas the original goal was to create a "national theater" with considerable
                    standardization of American themes, the Hoosier FTP prided itself on staging works by Indiana
                    authors about local subjects. While not openly defiant of federal goals and regulations,
                    Indiana's FTP proved an example of state independence and provincial pride much in keeping
                    with the state's tradition of individualism. As a case study, the Indiana FTP reveals a
                    unique instance of the arts being used to combat economic depression, provides new evidence about
                    the tensions between federal centralization and Hoosier "home rule," and exposes a
                    philosophical contradiction within the New Deal itself.
            Beginning in 1929, the Great Depression proved resistant to private and governmental remedies. Banks
                    failed, factories closed, farmers could not find markets for their products. Unemployment reached a
                    record high of thirteen million, an estimated 25 percent 
                  
                     * George T. Blakey is professor of history, Indiana
                            University East, 
                                Richmond
                            . He received assistance on this article from the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and Professor Dorothy Webb, Indiana University—Purdue University 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     of the work force.1 President Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt's New Deal, starting in 1933, tried several new measures that proved only partly
                    successful. The Bank Holiday and reform legislation stabilized the financial community, and farm
                    programs helped to reduce agricultural surpluses. Unemployment, however, remained high as the
                    private sector failed to absorb the jobless. The Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA)
                    distributed $3,000,000,000 in welfare benefits to millions of needy, including four
                    hundred thousand people in Indiana.2 To provide jobs in late 1933 and early
                    1934, the Civil Works Administration (CWA) employed at its peak four million jobless, more than one
                    hundred thousand of whom were Hoosiers.3 These emergency measures reduced some
                    of the economic woes but were admittedly temporary. A larger, more systematic, attack on
                    unemployment seemed to be needed; thus, the Works Projects Administration (WPA) was established in
                    1935 under the direction of Harry Hopkins, who had also directed both the FERA and CWA.
            The WPA created a massive number of jobs and, at the same time, produced useable or lasting
                    facilities for the public. When possible the WPA tried to match jobs with the skills of the jobless,
                    not just hire people for make-work activities. The agency lasted until 1943 when World War II
                    rendered it unnecessary, and it ultimately hired approximately nine million people and spent more
                    than $11,000,000,000. Famous for road work, the WPA also built thousands of schools,
                    parks, and bridges. In Indiana alone it employed ninety-nine thousand at its peak, spent a total of
                    $302,000,000, and worked on 24,000 miles of roads, 3,000 bridges, 361 parks, and 78
                        schools.4
            
            A small and unique section of WPA employed artists, musicians, writers, and theater personnel. Known
                    as Federal One, it never constituted more than 2 percent of the total WPA work force,5 but it generated more publicity and controversy than the other 98 percent. Federal
                    One's employees painted murals in public buildings, performed musical programs, wrote such
                    publications as the American Guide series, and staged hundreds of theatrical productions for an
                    audience of millions. This extraordinary government subsidy for the arts was virtually unprecedented
                    in the United 
                  
                     1 U.S., Bureau of the Census, Historical Statistics of the 
                                United States
                            : Colonial Times to 1970 (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1975), 126.
                  
                     2 Theodore E. Whiting, Final Statistical Report of the Federal
                            Emergency Relief Administration (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1942), iii; John Jennings, "WPA/Indiana Final Report,"
                            typescript, p. 2, box 2, Works Projects Administration Collection, Record Group 69 (National
                            Archives, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            ).
                  
                     3 Works Progress Administration (WPA), Final Report (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1943), 3–4; Jennings, "WPNIndiana Final Report,"
                            2.
                  
                     4 WPA, Final Report, 111, 120, 135.
                  
                     5 William F. McDonald, Federal Relief Administration and the Arts: The
                            Origins and Administrative History of the Arts Projects of the Works Progress Administration (
                                Columbus
                            , 1969), 172.
               
                     States and produced as many opponents as it did advocates.
                    Hopkins shrugged off criticism of artists-on-the-dole with the cryptic comment,
                    "they've got to eat just like other people."6
            
            Darkened theaters across America in 1935 stood in mute testimony to the effect of the Great
                    Depression and the need for Federal One. Unemployed workers did not purchase tickets; consequently,
                    inactive box offices could not pay actors' salaries. 
                        Broadway
                    , the keystone of American theatrical life, had more than sixty legitimate theaters in
                    predepression days but was reduced to fewer than forty operating houses in the mid-1930s. The
                    "road" had also dried up; touring companies that took 
                        Broadway
                     shows by truck and train to regional audiences had declined from eighteen to one or
                        two.7 A leading theater in 
                        Denver
                     had been used as a gathering site for a group predicting the imminent end of the world,
                    and in 
                        Atlanta
                     the major legitimate house had been dark for several years.8 Of the
                    four theaters that hosted 
                        Indianapolis
                    's major live performances—the Murat, Indiana, English, and B. F.
                    Keith's—only the English was still functioning, and it presented infrequent road
                        appearances.9 Estimates of unemployed theater personnel vary widely;
                    Actor's Equity stated that eight thousand of its members were out of work, and the number
                    swelled to thirty thousand if musicians, stagehands, and vaudevillians were added to the list.10
            
            Hopkins believed that the WPA's response to the depressed theatrical situation needed to be
                    national in scope, not merely to resuscitate 
                        Broadway
                    . "This is an American job," he stated, "not just a 
                        New York
                     job. I want someone who knows and cares about other parts of the country."11 He selected Hallie Flanagan to lead the FTP because she fit that description.
                    Hopkins and Flanagan had known each other since their childhood in 
                        Iowa
                    , and both had graduated from Grinnell College there. While he pursued a career of
                    public service, she became a professor of dramatics. At the time of her appointment she was teaching
                    at Vassar College not far from the Roosevelt home in 
                  Hyde
                        Park, New York
               . Flanagan
                    favored experimental theater rather than the popular commercial stage. Her travel in Europe and
                    Russia had resulted in several publications 
                  
                     6 Jerre G. Mangione, The Dream and the Deal: The Federal Writers
                            Project, 1935–1943 (
                                Boston
                            , 1972), 4.
                  
                     7
                            
                                New York
                             Times, December 31, 1927, December 29, 1928, December 30, 1933, December 29,
                            1934; Tony Buttitta and Barry Witham, Uncle Sam Presents: A Memoir of the Federal Theatre,
                            1935–1939 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1982), 24.
                  
                     8 Willson Whitman, Bread and Circuses: A Study of Federal Theatre (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 7, 22.
                  
                     9 Charles F. Schlegel to Senator James Van Nuys, September 17, 1935,
                            box 74, WPA Collection. Schlegel was secretary of Stage Employees Local #30, International
                            Alliance Theatrical State Employees.
                  
                     10 Jane De Hart Mathews, The Federal Theatre, 1935–1939:
                            Plays, Relief, and Politics (
                        Princeton,
                                    N.J.
                     , 1967), 27; Buttitta and
                            Witham, Uncle Sam Presents, 24.
                  
                     11 Quoted in John O'Connor and Lorraine Brown, eds., Free,
                            Adult, Uncensored: The Living History of the Federal Theatre Project (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1978), 2.
               
                     that lauded new stage techniques and dramas of social protest.
                    She was short of stature but seemed to compensate with high energy and strong opinions. Her husband
                    and children permitted her this venture into federal service in 1935 because she envisioned the FTP
                    as a major catalyst for change. The project could go well beyond the simple employment of actors,
                    she believed. It could lead to "the establishment of theatres so vital to community life
                    that they will continue to function" long after the New Deal measures were no longer
                        necessary.12
            
            Under Flanagan's creative leadership the FTP fulfilled many of its goals between 1935 and
                    1939. The project provided jobs for an average of ten thousand unemployed theater people per year
                    and paid them wages that averaged $20.00 per week.13 They presented
                    plays, puppet shows, and vaudeville acts for an audience estimated at thirty million people, some of
                    whom had never experienced live theater previously. Many of the performances charged no admission
                    fee, and those that did had a top ticket price far below the going rate for regular commercial
                    presentations. In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , for example, the most expensive FTP ticket was forty cents compared to
                    $2.75 for the best ticket to a commercial touring production.14 Many
                    young actors such as Joseph Cotton, Arlene Francis, and Burt Lancaster kept their fledgling careers
                    moving with FTP work, and several directors such as Orson Welles and John Houseman advanced their
                    reputations with these government-sponsored ventures. Welles in particular gained notoriety by
                    staging a version of Macbeth with an all black cast set in 
                        Haiti
                    . The "Voodoo Macbeth" opened in 
                        New York
                    , then toured the country, including a stop in Indiana. In keeping with
                    Flanagan's experimental bent, the FTP incorporated new techniques and social protest in its
                    Living Newspaper productions, which highlighted current issues with multimedia presentations.
                    Perhaps the peak of the FTP's success came with the premier of Sinclair Lewis's It
                    Can't Happen Here, an antifascist production based on Lewis's recent novel. Amid a
                    barrage of publicity, the FTP mounted multiple versions of the play simultaneously in eighteen
                    cities, one of which was 
                        Indianapolis
                    .15
            
            Controversy and criticism matched the FTP's success. Its government subsidies and low ticket
                    prices brought charges of unfair competition from some theater owners. Despite Hopkins's
                    declaration that the FTP was to be "free, adult, uncensored" theater,16 several productions were delayed, censored, or closed by government 
                  
                     12 FTP, "Instructions," October, 1935, pamphlet, p.
                            1, box 20, WPA Collection.
                  
                     13 Mathews, The Federal Theatre, 304; Fenwick Library, George Mason
                            University, comp., The Federal Theatre Project: A Catalog-Calendar of Productions (
                                New York
                            , 1986), xiii.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, March 1, 1936.
                  
                     15 Hallie Flanagan, Arena: The History of the Federal Theatre (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 6, 33, 74, 123.
                  
                     16 Mathews, The Federal Theatre, 33.
               
                     officials who regarded their content too sensitive or
                    troublesome. A Living Newspaper production of 
                        Ethiopia
                     raised potential problems for 
                        United States
                     foreign policy, so it closed. A children's presentation of Revolt of the
                    Beavers convinced some critics that it advocated worker rebellion and communal living; it, too, died
                    a premature death. Some conservative politicians found the FTP a vulnerable target for their attacks
                    on the New Deal and branded it a hotbed of radicalism, even communism. Congressional investigators
                    accused the FTP of fiscal irresponsibility and ideological subversion although they substantiated
                    few of these allegations. By 1939, however, President Roosevelt had to compromise with his critics,
                    and the FTP was one of the New Deal measures to be jettisoned. Its innovation and visibility made it
                    an easy scapegoat, then a sacrificial lamb.17
            
            Indiana, like thirty other states, had enough unemployed theater personnel to justify a local FTP
                    unit. With the exception of 
                        Kentucky
                     all of the Hoosier state's neighbors also established their own theater
                    project. National FTP leaders selected state directors to survey WPA relief rolls to find qualified
                    theater people—actors, directors, and technical crew—and transfer them to the
                    FTP rolls. Although the WPA was, in a sense, the parent of FTP, the family relationship was unusual
                    and strained. Semi-autonomous as a federal employee, the state FTP director would work with the
                    state WPA director but not be accountable to him; he was responsible directly to the national FTP
                    director and had a budget separate from the state WPA budget. This tortuous chain of command was
                    destined to create political and budgetary conflicts.
            The man selected to direct the Indiana FTP was well suited to manage a project for theater people but
                    was not particularly well equipped to deal with the overlapping bureaucracy and regulations of both
                    state and federal governments. Lee Norvelle came to the job with the right academic credentials. He
                    was a professor of speech and theater at Indiana University and had successfully directed shows in
                    makeshift spaces since 1925. He was also a man of unconventional background and firm opinions. A
                    native of 
                        Kentucky
                    , he had dropped out of elementary school, then resumed his education at age nineteen.
                    Following a series of transfers in and out of several colleges, Norvelle finally entered Indiana
                    University from which he graduated in 1922. He taught briefly in 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        Montana
                     before returning to 
                        Bloomington
                     in 1925 to teach and complete his doctorate. Some of his colleagues thought his degree
                    in psychology was a strange choice for a theater director, but Norvelle believed the study of human
                    behavior was a logical course to pursue.18 Even 
                  
                     17 Ibid., 67–68, 116–18, chapter 17, passim.
                  
                     18 Lee Norvelle, The Road Taken (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1980), passim; Norvelle, "Interview with Richard
                            Doud," June 23, 1964, transcript, pp. 1–2 (Archives of American
               
                    
                    
                  LEE NORVELLE AS PICTURED IN THE 1933 INDIANA UNIVERSITY ARBUTUS
                  
                  Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            
                  
               
                     though Norvelle had not sought this FTP position, he accepted the
                    appointment willingly and with full knowledge of the national goals and challenges. Indiana
                    University granted him a leave of absence, and he took up temporary housing at the Lincoln Hotel in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in November, 1935. Tall and somewhat dapper, Norvelle sported a bow tie and mustache
                    and soon became a major player in a political and artistic drama in the capital city.19
            
            Norvelle's appointment as the state FTP director in 1935 set off a series of clashes between
                    Indiana and federal politicians. These conflicts often caught Norvelle between two governmental
                    forces and revealed the tensions between regional pride and federal power. The tension had been
                    there through most of the Hoosier past but was more intense since citizen dependence on federal
                    largess had accelerated during the depression. Between 1933 and 1935 Hopkins's FERA had
                    distributed welcome relief revenues in Indiana, but the accompanying pressure to centralize and
                    professionalize the welfare bureaucracy of the state was an unwelcome threat to old traditions.
                    Township trustees had long operated with considerable autonomy in administering relief to the
                    state's needy. Unlike most other states Indiana managed to win several battles in this
                    welfare war, with Hoosier home-rule advocates maintaining much local control over the national
                    relief funds. A similar struggle and compromise occurred in 1936 when the State Department of Public
                    Welfare was established to accommodate the new national Social Security administration. Indiana
                    again welcomed the federal revenues but insisted on controlling many aspects of their local
                        implementation.20 Caught in this political crossfire, Norvelle found himself
                    on unfamiliar ground and almost abandoned the FTP experiment.
            National FTP director Flanagan and regional FTP director Thomas Wood Stevens in 
                        Chicago
                     had selected Norvelle for the job, established his salary, and briefed him on the
                    procedures for setting up the state unit. Indiana Governor Paul V. McNutt and state WPA
                    administrator Wayne Coy were fully apprised of these developments, but when press releases from 
                        Washington
                     announced Norvelle's appointment, Indiana politicians took umbrage at what
                    they regarded as usurpation of their responsibility. Although Coy was a federal WPA official, his
                    loyalties were to Indiana and his mentor, McNutt. He had been the governor's aide before
                    being appointed to the WPA position, and his traditional political instincts compelled him to
                    protect state prerogatives and McNutt's 
                  Art, 
                                Detroit
                             Art Institute, 
                        Detroit, Michigan
                     ). This interview is hereafter
                            cited as Norvelle, Interview I.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, November 13, 1935; FTP, "Personal History Form," box
                            59, WPA Collection.
                  
                     20 James H. Madison, Indiana through Tradition and Change: A History
                            of the Hoosier State and its People, 1920–1945 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982), 116, 123.
               
                     reputation. As a result, Norvelle got no cooperation from
                    Coy's office in setting up the FTP unit. Norvelle later remembered that one of
                    Coy's assistants "had been told to give me the smallest available office and the
                    least qualified secretary & and let me cool my heels until I learned who should give out the
                    news releases."21 After weeks of foot-dragging by the state WPA
                    organization and the resultant inactivity, Norvelle was finally able to select FTP personnel from
                    WPA relief rolls and was ready to begin; but he found state WPA officials reluctant to release the
                    necessary funds. The frustrated Norvelle threatened to resign, telling his federal superiors that he
                    was tired of being "indefinitely delayed through the political maneuvering of persons who
                    are not in sympathy &."22 Several hasty telephone calls and
                    wires from federal to state administrators broke the impasse, and Norvelle moved ahead; but state
                    leaders displayed a lingering fear and mistrust that this new enterprise might prove an embarrassing
                    boondoggle over which they had little control.23
            
            This extended tug-of-war was not a partisan struggle; all the participants—federal, state,
                    and Norvelle—were some shade of Democrat. The conflict also had little to do with clashes
                    of personality or ego. McNutt generally cooperated with the Roosevelt administration because he
                    wanted the presidential nomination for himself in the near future. Norvelle cooperated with McNutt
                    because of a long mutual friendship.24 The clash was, instead, a power play
                    between two levels of government. It sprang from generations of distrust over federal and state
                    jurisdictions, the lines of which were shifting rapidly during the 1930s.
            A similar but briefer power play took place concerning the selection of a theater building for the
                    Hoosier FTP. Norvelle had negotiated rental terms for B. F. Keith's theater, a site he
                    considered suitable for his project. This venerable vaudeville house, located at 117 North 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , dated back to 1875. It had changed names and functions several times, then remained
                    dark during the early depression. Keith's had a lighted marquee, gilded balconies and
                    boxes, an orchestra pit, special effect machines, adequate dressing rooms and office space, seating
                    for almost 1,400, and an ideal downtown location close to several popular restaurants.25 United Theatres Company owned Keith's and was willing to see the building put
                    to good use for reasonable terms. The FTP would pay 
                  
                     21 Thomas Wood Stevens to Lee Norvelle, November 5, 6, 1935, file
                            1920–1939, Lee Norvelle Collection (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ); Norvelle, Interview 1, 7–8.
                  
                     22 Norvelle to Stevens, January 27, 1936, box 59, WPA Collection.
                  
                     23 Stevens to Norvelle, January 29, 1936, box 59, WPA Collection;
                            Stevens to Hallie Flanagan, January 31, 1936, box 99, ibid.; Lee Norvelle,
                            "Interview with K. Wickre," November 18, 1979, transcript, p. 6, FTP
                            Collection (George Mason University, Fairfax, 
                                Virginia
                            ). This interview is hereafter cited as Norvelle, Interview 11.
                  
                     24 Norvelle, The Road Taken, 249–50, 286.
                  
                     25 FTP, Technical Survey, April, 1937, box 252, WPA Collection.
               
                    
                    
                  B. F. KEITH'S THEATRE, 1916
                                (KEITH'S LOOKED
                            THE SAME IN THE 1930s)
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, March 28, 1916
               
                     75 percent of its gross receipts, and the theater owners would
                    use 25 percent of that to publicize the group's productions.26 Coy was
                    reluctant, however, for the FTP to rent Keith's. He doubted that the project would succeed
                    and wanted Norvelle to find a smaller auditorium. Coy questioned whether a company of unemployed
                    actors could attract large crowds, and empty rows of seats in the cavernous Keith's would
                    just draw attention to the skimpy attendance. Indiana could be humiliated by this failure.
                    Coy's reservations were justifiable. FTP projects elsewhere were getting a rocky start with
                    resignations, censorship disputes, and bad publicity, all of which had been reported in Indiana
                        newspapers.27 A desire to protect Indiana from similar failure could explain
                    Coy's lack of enthusiasm for grandiose plans. Norvelle won on this battle, however; and the
                    FTP opened in Keith's on schedule, although a little less ready than the theater group had
                    hoped because of the various obstacles that had been placed in its way.
            Norvelle had few illusions about the professional quality of his local troupe of theater people. They
                    after all came from the ranks of the unemployed. He also never forgot that the FTP was a relief
                    project first and foremost. What emerged from Norvelle's survey of the state WPA relief
                    rolls was an eclectic mixture of talent and experience. From a pool of approximately eighty eligible
                    individuals, he assembled a professional stage director, twenty or so actors, two electricians, a
                    carpenter, wardrobe mistress, assorted stage hands, and a janitorial staff. "None of these
                    people were extremely talented," he recalled, "but they'd done all kinds
                    of work."28 For instance, Jack Duval was an actor of considerable
                    experience and competence but currently down on his luck, and Joseph Shea had once worked as a
                    properties man for the Metropolitan Opera.29 Early in the process of developing
                    the casts for plays, Norvelle lamented to the national FTP the dim prospects of mounting viable
                    shows with the "frail reeds" that he had assembled. This problem was not unique to
                    the Hoosier state; it was common to FTP units across America. Consequently, federal guidelines
                    permitted state directors to supplement their troupes with nonrelief personnel to enhance the
                    quality of productions so long as these extras did not exceed 10 percent of the total payroll. On
                    occasion, then, Norvelle would hire some of his students from the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus, and the national FTP would "loan" extra actors. For example
                    seven actors from 
                        New York
                     transferred to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , eight to 
                        Detroit
                    , and nine to 
                        Atlanta
                    .30 Despite the uneven levels of talent, these employees impressed
                        
                  
                     26 Norvelle to Ivan Paul, August 1, 1936, box 59, WPA Collection.
                  
                     27 Norvelle, Interview I, 9–10; 
                                Indianapolis
                             News, February 17, 1936.
                  
                     28 FTP, Technical Survey, April, 1937; Norvelle, Interview II, 5.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Times, June 22, 1936; Norvelle, Interview II, 20.
                  
                     30 Norvelle to William Farnsworth, March 20, 1936, box 59, WPA
                            Collection; John McGee to Hallie Flanagan, April 26, 1937, box 37, WPA Collection.
               
                     Norvelle with their eagerness to succeed. They were proud and
                    did not want to be regarded as indigent; they worked hard and long and did not demand overtime
                    wages. And they developed a hearty group morale which Norvelle encouraged and enjoyed.31
            
            Included in the approximately eighty Hoosiers employed in the Indiana FTP were two groups who did not
                    normally perform at Keith's in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . From the ranks of the unemployed Norvelle inherited two vaudeville ensembles, one
                    white and one black, which performed skits and musical numbers. These ensembles worked independently
                    and accepted bookings around the state where they frequently entertained, at no charge, enthusiastic
                    audiences at schools, civic organizations, and many Civilian Conservation Corps camps.32 Norvelle also established a children's theater in 
                        Gary
                    . Prior to the arrival of the WPA, 
                        Gary
                     resident Betty Lyman had conducted a children's theatrical workshop in the
                    city, and the FTP incorporated this group into a project that continued and accelerated its
                    momentum. A few adults received pay for directing and technical work, and children from the Calumet
                    region learned and performed.33 This children's unit and the two
                    vaudeville ensembles were intriguing facets of the Hoosier FTP. They both merit further scholarly
                    investigation.
            Selecting plays for his troupe to perform at Keith's placed Norvelle at odds with national
                    FTP goals. Part of Flanagan's vision was to create a national theater that would provide
                    bold, high quality productions. She was tired of commercial 
                        Broadway
                     shows that toured or were mounted by local companies in watered-down versions of their 
                        New York
                     originals; consequently, she encouraged state directors to innovate rather than follow
                    old traditions. As admirable as this policy might have been—and as in keeping with other
                    New Deal experiments—Indiana's FTP did not pursue this course as often as
                    Flanagan wished or as well as other state units. At times Norvelle's selections of plays
                    directly conflicted with Flanagan's suggestions. Some of the conflict sprang from their
                    philosophical differences. Flanagan advocated the avant garde in drama and wanted
                    to educate and stretch the audience. Norvelle, on the other hand, was more comfortable with
                    entertainment than inspiration. Although both were academics, she was world-traveled and worked at
                    an elite eastern school; his experience was rooted in mid-America with its more conservative taste.
                    Flanagan and Norvelle also differed in their perception of the audience's role. She
                    accepted the unique reality of a government-subsidized theater in which audience reaction and box
                    office receipts were secondary; artistic merit was the primary goal. Norvelle, to the contrary,
                    never departed from the rule that the public had to be pleased, that ticket 
                  
                     31 Norvelle, Interview I, 15, 24; Norvelle, Interview 11,
                            14–15.
                  
                     32 FTP, Technical Survey.
                  
                     33 Flanagan, Arena, 152–54.
               
                     sales and audience applause were synonymous with success. Their
                    personal differences also reflected contrasting economic beliefs. Flanagan was a true New Dealer,
                    who believed that people and federal programs to help them were more important than balanced
                    budgets. Norvelle's penurious youth had made him cautious with money, and his adopted state
                    of Indiana lived under a constitution that forbade deficit spending.
            These differences in background and philosophy manifested themselves in divergent attitudes about
                    what shows to produce. The national FTP established the National Play Bureau to evaluate and
                    recommend to state directors suitable scripts for production. This group of professionals judged
                    plays on their technical and acting difficulty, their content and message, and their potential cost
                    and audience reaction. Although the bureau could recommend and discourage, it did not have mandatory
                    powers; consequently, it had virtually no impact on what appeared on the stage at Keith's
                    in 1936–1937. Norvelle walked an independent line and ignored the advice of the bureau
                    most of the time. "I did it on my own," he recalled later, and put together a
                    "good mixture of farce, comedy and tragedy."34 He selected
                    plays that he had produced earlier at Indiana University or ones with which his stage director felt
                    comfortable. Charles Berkell, Norvelle's first stage director, had managed stock companies
                    for many years in Indiana and worked well with older, traditional fare. James Cameron from 
                        New York
                     replaced Berkell in late 1936, but play selection changed little. Standard fare
                    continued despite the bureau's encouragement to be more modern and experimental. A review
                    of the forty-one locally produced shows indicates that an overwhelming number of them were older,
                    conventional, familiar pieces. From The Old Maid to Sis Hopkins to Penny Arcade, Hoosier FTP
                    selections did not aspire to challenge or stretch the audience. On two occasions Norvelle relented
                    to bureau pressure and mounted Noah and Laughing Boy, new plays with unusual treatments. Neither
                    could be regarded as successful, judging from reviewer comments and small audiences.35 If anything, this rare departure from the familiar must have confirmed
                    Norvelle's position about appropriate fare for Hoosier tastes.
            Flanagan and Norvelle argued frequently about play selection. He insisted that since the local FTP
                    had no stars with which to attract an audience he had to present shows of popular appeal. The highly
                    publicized It Can't Happen Here, which drew small audiences and lackluster reviews,
                    provided further proof of his contention. The experimental, topical, and satirical Living Newspaper
                    productions were popular in such major cities as 
                  New
                        York, Chicago, Los
                        Angeles
               , and 
                        Philadelphia
                    ; but Norvelle was reluctant to try 
                  
                     34 Norvelle, Interview II, 21; Norvelle, Interview I, 13.
                  
                     35 Lee Norvelle, "
                                Indianapolis
                             Takes Stock," Federal Theatre Magazine, II (June, 1937), 27, 28; 
                                Indianapolis
                             News, March 2, 1937.
               
                     one at Keith's for a supposedly less sophisticated
                    audience. Flanagan convinced directors at several smaller cities— 
                  Seattle, Detroit, Dallas, Cincinnati,
                            Milwaukee, New
                        Orleans
               , and 
                  Portland,
                            Oregon
               , for example—to mount
                    Living Newspaper shows, but she could not persuade Norvelle to experiment with the new medium.
                    Although he offered to resign if she could find a replacement for him, nothing came of this offer,
                    and Flanagan had to accommodate his less than innovative approach. Later Norvelle took great delight
                    in recalling, frequently and correctly, that box office receipts in Indiana paid for more of the
                    production costs than did those of any other state FTP unit except the one in 
                        Illinois
                    .36 An artistic and fiscal conservative to the end, Norvelle enjoyed
                    applause of a different kind.
            Norvelle and Flanagan disagreed even more strongly about production schedules than about play
                    selection. He wanted to present a different show each week to keep the bill changing rapidly,
                    thereby encouraging audiences to develop a habit of attending the theater regularly.37 The first five productions of the Indiana FTP ran for one week each with the next show
                    in rehearsal. Berkell, the stage director, had long experience with stock companies and weekly
                    changes of bill, so Norvelle's policy had some local precedent. Doubting that Norvelle
                    could produce plays of sufficient quality in so short a time, Flanagan questioned this routine early
                    on. In April, 1936, only a month after the Hoosier unit opened, she wrote him: "I am
                    wondering whether it is necessary to change the bill every week &. It is difficult for me to
                    believe that any standard, after only a week's rehearsal can be very high
                    &." She reminded him that all the other FTP projects devoted more time to rehearsal
                    and presentation and that dark days with nothing playing were of little consequence.
                    "Nowhere else in the country," she insisted, "have we any company
                    offering so rapid a turnover."38 Although a complete listing of
                    rehearsal times for all FTP units is not available, a comparison with two others is revealing. The
                    average time spent in preparation for a play in 
                        Los Angeles
                     was about six weeks; in 
                        Chicago
                     it was two months.39
            
            Whether or not Flanagan knew it, reviewers for the three 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers often confirmed her doubts. Critics from the Star, News, and Times covered
                    all the local FTP productions, and for the most part they wrote professional reviews that commented
                    on both strengths and weakness, acting as well as technical work. A recurring theme from these
                    reviews was that the cast could use more rehearsal time or that the opening night show was not quite
                    ready.
            
               
                  36 Norvelle, Interview I, 10–11; Norvelle, Interview II, 8;
                        Flanagan, Arena, 435.
               
                  37 Norvelle, Interview I, 10–12.
               
                  38 Flanagan to Norvelle, April 9, 1936, box 15, WPA Collection.
               
                  39 Mathews, The Federal Theatre, 304.
            
            
            In apparent response to these criticisms Norvelle modified his routine. Some plays began to run for
                    two weeks, but only once in the first year of production did Norvelle allow the theater to sit dark.
                    Flanagan's assistant, John McGee, continued to pressure Norvelle for more quality and less
                    quantity. He advised, "I think you ought not to open a play until you definitely know you
                    are ready, even if it means dark weeks."40 Regardless, after a few more
                    shows with two week runs, Norvelle returned to his weekly change of bill. Small audiences and weak
                    box office receipts did not seem to justify extended runs. Finally FTP suggestions turned into
                    regulations, and Norvelle's independence presumably was one of the reasons for the change.
                    In April, 1937, the FTP Play Policy Board ruled that "weekly stock has no place on the
                    Federal Program and that such companies as are now playing weekly stock shift to a production basis
                    & more generally in line with FTP policies &."41 McGee
                    informed Flanagan that this new ruling could possibly "break the Indiana project"
                    and suggested to Norvelle that fewer and better shows might attract larger audiences than the
                    "continuous and rather mediocre performances" at Keith's.42 The Hoosier unit subsequently did produce fewer shows alternating with dark weeks, but
                    the resulting productions were not necessarily better because of the scheduling changes. Said Pasha,
                    the only musical offered by the Indiana FTP, opened to uniformly negative notices following ample
                    rehearsal time.
            The national FTP scheduling victory over Indiana was somewhat Pyrrhic. The Hoosier FTP ceased
                    operation in July, 1937, for reasons partly related to scheduling. Norvelle knew that the quality of
                    his productions was not very high; that hallmark had never been a primary goal. He also knew that
                    attendance was declining, a fact that was of some concern. Other factors also led to the demise of
                    the project. Because of a WPA funding cutback all FTP units had to reduce personnel in mid-1937, a
                    reduction that Norvelle felt his small group could not survive. These conditions, combined with his
                    desire to remain in 
                        Bloomington
                     full time, spelled the end of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     unit. The Indiana FTP jettisoned future productions and ceased operations with the
                    final performance of Bill of Divorcement, their forty-first production. That play
                    had a run of ten days. Norvelle remained independent to the end.
            Flanagan's vision for the FTP included an American theater to focus on national themes, but
                    this part of her conception was doomed by a variety of factors. Regional art had become a powerful
                    phenomenon in the 1920s, a circumstance that continued during the Great Depression. Such painters as
                    John Steuart Curry 
                  
                     40 John McGee to Norvelle, November 4, 1936, box 51, WPA Collection.
                  
                     41 Quoted in McDonald, Federal Relief Administration and the Arts,
                            548.
                  
                     42 McGee to Flanagan, April 10, 1937, box 37, WPA Collection; McGee to
                            Norvelle, April 10, 1937, ibid.
               
                     (
                        Kansas
                    ), Thomas Hart Benton (
                        Missouri
                    ), and Grant Wood (
                        Iowa
                    ) had gained popularity beyond their geographical constituency, and the famous Hoosier
                    Group preceded them by several years. Some of the state FTP directors tapped into this cultural
                    phenomenon. They discovered that puppet shows and patriotic pageants which highlighted local history
                    were easy to mount and generated audience enthusiasm. A few states staged full-scale dramatic
                    productions to instill pride in local heritage. 
                        North Carolina
                    's The Lost Colony dramatized its sixteenth-century settlement; 
                        Oregon
                     produced a show about flax production in its Willamette Valley;
                    and 
                        Illinois
                     hosted productions about its favorite son, Abraham Lincoln, in both Peoria and 
                        Springfield
                    . FTP companies in major urban centers sometimes paid tribute to their local ethnic
                    populations with performances in Spanish or Yiddish, and there were several shows by and about
                    African Americans. Flanagan also found that many directors chose to ignore her interest in national
                    themes for reasons of finance or expedience. Shakespeare was in the public domain, so his works
                    appeared frequently and reduced royalty costs. Local adaptations of such classics as Cinderella and Hansel and Gretel also appeared with regularity for young
                        audiences.43
            
            Norvelle departed further from Flanagan's national emphasis than did most state FTP
                    directors, and his obvious regionalism pointed out a major contradiction in her vision. Indiana
                    distinguished itself by promoting state playwrights, Hoosier settings, and local connections.
                    Although a few state units mounted an occasional production to capitalize on local pride, Norvelle
                    made concerted attempts to move in this direction. Indiana authors wrote five of the forty-one
                    locally produced shows, and these productions received heavy promotion on that angle alone. Had the
                    Indiana FTP not ended in July, 1937, the next scheduled play would have been another Hoosier
                    offering. Norvelle had earlier informed the national headquarters that he was seeking additional
                    scripts by state authors, and an invitation to Hoosier playwrights to submit their manuscripts for
                    consideration drew a large number of potential plays.44 Audience reaction proved
                    Norvelle's regional focus a valid one. The best attendance for any one-week run was for The
                    Hoosier Schoolmaster, written and dramatized by Hoosiers about a local subject; and the record
                    holder for attendance at a two-week run was Do Unto Others, likewise written by an Indiana
                    playwright and with a Hoosier setting.45 This almost provincial focus in Indiana
                    was actually more in harmony with the WPA's vision of public works than was
                    Flanagan's concept of a federal theater; her nationalism contradicted a strong regionalism
                    in Hopkins's agency and caused tensions between New Deal planners and local administrators.
                        
                  
                     43 Flanagan, Arena, appendix: production record.
                  
                     44 Indiana Narrative Report, December 1, 1936, box 96, WPA Collection
                  
                     45 Norvelle, "
                                Indianapolis
                             Takes Stock," 28.
               
                     The WPA's project for writers employed thousands of
                    Americans to research and publish books on state and local heritage for the American Guide series.
                    Likewise, the project for artists encouraged painters to emphasize local themes for gallery exhibits
                    and murals for public buildings. What might have appeared at the time to be obstinance or
                    parochialism by Norvelle was more nearly in keeping with the WPAs goals than was Flanagan's
                    personal agenda.
            Norvelle knew from the outset that the opening show for the Indiana FTP would be a Hoosier offering.
                    Which one was problematic because of the political and financial roadblocks in his way, but he was
                    determined to inaugurate the state project with something local on the boards. With only two weeks
                    left prior to opening night he was still unsure about the precise title, but he assured the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star that Keith's would present "a play with some regional
                    interest" in order to build local pride and a vested interest in the enterprise.46 He had toyed with the idea of producing The County Chairman by Indiana
                    humorist George Ade. This show had been a hit when it opened on 
                        Broadway
                     in 1903, and it featured a topic dear to the hearts of many
                    Hoosiers—politics. Just the year before it had been adapted for the screen, and the movie
                    had starred Will Rogers.47 Ultimately, and at the last moment, he selected
                    Clarence by Booth Tarkington.
            The selection of Clarence, according to Norvelle, was "not by happenstance"; it was
                    planned with publicity in mind.48 Tarkington was a famous native son and still
                    lived in the capital city. His novels had been popular for decades, and he was the recipient of
                    Pulitzer prizes for The Magnificent Ambersons and Alice Adams.
                        Clarence had been one of Tarkington's major stage successes when it opened in
                    1919. It had starred Alfred Lunt and Helen Hayes, whom the author had had in mind as he wrote the
                    play, and both critics and audiences had enjoyed the production.49 Although
                    Clarence had not yet been released for stock companies, Tarkington generously allowed Norvelle and
                    the FTP to use it for their opening, and Norvelle emphasized Tarkington's largess in the
                    pre-production publicity.50 For the gala opening night Norvelle enticed Governor
                    McNutt and 
                        Indianapolis
                     mayor John Worth Kern to welcome the audience before curtain time, and according to an
                    observant FTP official, Norvelle managed to pack the house by handing out numerous free passes.51 An editorial cartoonist for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Times, Russell Berg, captured well the mix of politics and art in his 
                  
                     46
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, February 15, 1936.
                  
                     47 Stevens to Flanagan, January 31, 1936, box 99, WPA Collection.
                  
                     48 Norvelle, Interview I, 10.
                  
                     49 James Woodress, Booth Tarkington: Gentleman from Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1955), 211–13.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Times, February 26, 1936.
                  
                     51 Stevens to Flanagan, March 4, 1936, box 59, WPA Collection.
               
                    
                    
                  RUSSELL BERG CARTOON
                            FOR CLARENCE
                  
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Times, March 2, 1936
                visual tribute to the occasion. His cartoon depicted Uncle Sam attired in formal silk hat,
                    long coat, and boutonniere entering the theater to see Tarkington's Clarence by the
                    "Federal Players."52 The local press was generous with its
                    reviews, regarding the opening as much a social and political success as an artistic one.
            For all of its success as an opening show, Clarence was an ironic choice twice over. Having wrung all
                    possible publicity from Tarkington's name and local connection, the FTP was left with a
                    play that offered no other support for Hoosier chauvinism. Indiana had no role in the plot, locale,
                    or characters. Clarence, a veteran, ostensibly 
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Times, March 2, 1936.
               
                     fresh from the Great War, ingratiates himself into the affairs
                    of the Wheeler family in 
                        New Jersey
                     until his true identity is revealed near the end of the final act. And if judged on its
                    quality as a script for FTP audiences, Clarence might have been in trouble with the professional
                    play evaluators at national headquarters. Those appraisers gave the play a mixed verdict. One found
                    it an amusing vehicle for amateurs, but another declared it dated and "out of joint with
                    Federal Theatre."53 Norvelle was obviously immune to these ironies, and
                    Clarence successfully launched the Hoosier FTP with a self-consciously provincial tone.
            A dramatization of Edward Eggleston's famous novel, The Hoosier Schoolmaster, was the second
                    presentation at Keith's of an Indiana playwright. Whereas Clarence's ties with the
                    state were strictly through its author, Schoolmaster's locale and subject were both truly
                    Hoosier. Eggleston had grown up along the Ohio River, first in 
                        Vevay
                    , then, at various times, in 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Madison
                    . The novel depicted the rural backwardness of southern Indiana as viewed by an
                    itinerant teacher. When the book appeared in 1871, some Hoosiers took umbrage at the negative image
                    of Indiana portrayed therein, especially in the illiteracy of the Flat Creek citizens and their
                    roughhewn dialect.54 Norvelle had grown up in northern 
                        Kentucky
                     just a few miles from the story's location, and his background as a dropout
                    from grade school undoubtedly gave him a strong empathy with the story. There had been previous
                    attempts to dramatize the novel for the screen and stage, but Norvelle felt they were not successful
                    because they departed too much from Eggleston's original. He therefore crafted his own
                    version, using as much of "Eggleston's dialogue as possible" and
                    insisting that the "characterizations are, for the most part, identical with those created
                    by Mr. Eggleston."55
            
            Norvelle had premiered an earlier version of his Schoolmaster in 
                        Bloomington
                     in 1935, so he knew what would work on stage from that experience. Because the
                    fictional Flat Creek citizenry outnumbered the available actors, Norvelle recruited and costumed
                    backstage crew to fill the smaller roles. When the FTP production opened on March 16, 1936, local
                    newspaper reviewers commented favorably on the elaborate sets of log cabin and schoolhouse interior
                    scenes, and they were amused by the actors' attempts to duplicate nineteenth-century rural
                    dialect. By general consensus one highlight of the play was the same as in the novel, the tense and
                    humorous spelling bee, which brings most of the community together and reveals much about the
                    personalities and motives of the leading 
                  
                     53 Clarence, readers' reports, FTP Collection.
                  
                     54 Arthur Shumaker, A History of Indiana Literature (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1962), 262–66.
                  
                     55 Norvelle, The Road Taken, 228; The Hoosier Schoolmaster, program
                            notes, March 16, 1936, FTP Collection.
               
                    
                    
                  JACK DUVAL IN THE HOOSIER SCHOOLMASTER
                  
                  Theatre of the Thirties Collection, George Mason University, Fairfax,
                        Virpnla.
                characters.56 National FTP script appraisers were less favorable in
                    their reactions. Some liked the quaintness of the story; others objected to stilted speeches and
                    lack of action.57 Whatever reservations earlier readers might have expressed
                    about the novel or later federal appraisers felt about the dramatization, audiences in 1936 turned
                    The Hoosier Schoolmaster into one of the most popular of all the state FTP offerings. It drew almost
                    five thousand people to its seven performances, or an average house of seven hundred, the best
                    attendance for any one week run at Keith's.58 Hoosier audiences
                    obviously enjoyed the depiction of their bucolic past regardless of its negative imagery.
            Meredith Nicholson's The Campbells are Coming gave the Hoosier FTP another
                    opportunity to lionize a local writer and publicize 
                  
                     56
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, News, and Times, March 17, 1936.
                  
                     57 The Hoosier Schoolmaster, readers' reports, FTP
                            Collection.
                  
                     58 Norvelle, "
                                Indianapolis
                             Takes Stock," 28.
               
                    
                    
                  PLAY PROGRAM FOR THE
                                CAMPBELLS ARE COMING
                  
                  Federal Theatre Project Collection, George Mason University, Fairfax, 
                                Virginia
                            
                  
                an Indiana setting. The play had originally appeared as a short story in the Saturday
                    Evening Post and had attained its dramatic form through an adaptation by Nicholson's
                    nephew, Robert P. Noble. Nicholson's fame and reputation were solid in the state. Often
                    called the dean of Hoosier writers, he had published poems, stories, essays, and novels, most
                    prominent among which were The Hoosiers (1900) and The House of a Thousand Candles (1905). In 1936
                    he was serving as minister to Venezuela and thus missed the production at Keith's, but he
                    later visited with Norvelle and roundly endorsed the FTP. Regarding the government arts project
                    "a splendid thing both for the theater and the public," he affirmed that he was
                    "strong for the Federal Theatre Project."59
                    Nicholson's nephew, also from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was a writer who, at the time of the production of Campbells in his home city, was
                    working on 
                  
                     59 Indiana Narrative Report, January 5, 1937, box 96, WPA
                        Collection.
               
                     scripts for the motion picture industry in 
                        California
                    . Publicity for the play emphasized the Hoosier roots of both the writer and adaptor,
                    and Corbin Patrick from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star agreed with Norvelle that "native drama ought to be
                        encouraged."60
            
            The plot of this Nicholson-Noble play focuses on the efforts to lure the Campbell family to a
                    mythical Hoosier town of Kearnsville in hopes that it will develop new industry and revive the
                    failing local economy. Although Kearnsville could have been anywhere in the Midwest, the authors
                    localized the story with frequent geographical and historical references such as the
                        Wabash River, literary societies, and relatives named Marshall. Also
                    appearing in the cast of characters was an aviatrix with obvious similarities to Amelia Earhart who
                    was on the staff of Purdue University at the time.61
            
            In a rare display of unanimity local newspaper critics, the audience, and the national FTP evaluators
                    all agreed about this play and its production. 
                        Indianapolis
                     reviewers found little to praise; the FTP readers regarded The Campbells are Coming as
                    "unimportant" and with appeal only to an audience in "the
                    sticks"; and Hoosier audiences stayed away from the theater.62 Negative
                    reviews of the production could account for some of the scant attendance, but the prolonged
                    midwestern heatwave in the summer of 1936 also contributed. Keith's was not air-conditioned
                    and temperatures rose above 100 degrees for days in a row. During the run of the play one stretch of
                    pavement in downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                     buckled from the heat. Attendance averaged fewer than two hundred per performance and
                    indicated that a Hoosier connection by itself was not enough to draw audiences to a lukewarm show in
                    a hot auditorium.63
            
            When Do Unto Others opened at Keith's on April 20, 1936, it was not just a play with a
                    Hoosier setting written by an Indiana author; it was also a world premiere. The FTP had two
                    auspicious phenomena to publicize, and its newspaper advertisements were larger and contained more
                    visual illustration than for previous plays. The playwright, Henry K. Burton, was a well-known
                    theatrical personality around the state. A native of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he had played in summer stock as a youth, managed theaters, produced shows, and
                    operated a booking agency with his brother. In this latter capacity he had brought to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and befriended such theatrical luminaries as Will Rogers, Sarah Bernhardt, and Ignace
                    Paderewski. He had also written articles on entertainment for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star and composed campaign songs for the state 
                  
                     60
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, July 7, 1936.
                  
                     61 The Campbellr are Coming, script, FTP Collection.
                  
                     62
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, News, and Times, July 7, 1936; The Campbells are Coming,
                            readers' reports, FTP Collection.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             News, July 7, 1936; Norvelle, "
                                Indianapolis
                             Takes Stock," 28.
               
                    
                    
                  ADVERTISEMENT FOR DO UNTO OTHERS
                  
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, April 26, 1936.
                Republican party.64 In 1936, as house manager for the FTP, he assisted
                    Norvelle with a variety of chores, including publicity. Burton wrote Do Unto Others as a vehicle for
                    his old friend Charles Althoff, a veteran performer on stage, screen, radio, and vaudeville tours.
                    Although Norvelle was not enthusiastic about the script, he agreed to produce the play only if
                    Althoff could arrange his schedule to appear as its star. Althoff canceled several vaudeville
                    engagements and appeared free of charge as a favor to Burton.65
            
            The plot of Do Unto Others was simplistic yet entertaining. Althoff played elderly Uncle Jimmy
                    Waterbury, a wisecracking fiddler who is rescued from a 
                        Jasper County
                     poor farm and taken to an 
                        Indianapolis
                     mansion by relatives interested in his recent financial windfall. Uncle Jimmy
                    moralizes, jokes, fiddles, and engineers just rewards—good and bad—for the
                    other characters. FTP script evaluators 
                  
                     64
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star and News, January 4, 1947.
                  
                     65 Norvelle, Interview I, 12; Norvelle, Interview 11, 9; 
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, April 19, 1936.
               
                     agreed with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Times reviewer who said that Do Unto Others "confirms our belief that its
                    author & is an excellent theatre manager."66 Criticism to the
                    contrary, the play was held over for an additional week and broke all attendance records for the
                    local FTP.67 Hoosier audiences apparently enjoyed this frothy escape from the
                    realities of the Great Depression. Homegrown world premiers did not have to aspire to artistic
                    greatness in order to please, and Norvelle was always happy with a healthy box office.
            Another world premier, One Night at Brenda's, was the fifth and final production of a
                    Hoosier playwright. Its author, Miles Tiernan, was, at the time, assistant city editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star. He had graduated from Shortridge High School in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and studied at Butler University before serving in the military during the Great War.
                    He joined the Star as a reporter in 1919 and remained with the paper in various capacities for the
                    rest of his life.68 Long interested in the theater, Tiernan had never had a play
                    produced prior to this one. It received the same boosterish publicity as the other four plays by
                    Indiana authors, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star joined in the celebration in a manner that displayed much pride in one of its
                    staff but little professional objectivity.69
            
            The Brenda in question in Tiernan's comedy-drama operates a roadhouse and nightclub where a
                    group of high school classmates hold a twentieth reunion. There they encounter a group of unsavory
                    characters, some of whom—Willie the Ox and Weepsie Joe—bear more than passing
                    resemblance to characters created by another current newspaperman, Damon Runyon. Although the script
                    was still under revision at the time of production and the setting had nothing to do with Indiana,
                    Tiernan received celebrity attention on opening night. He also received encouraging notices for his
                    "Baptism of fire" on stage and reasonably good attendance.70
                    Tiernan continued his love of the theater and wrote Man Bites Dog, a play about newspaper work,
                    which the local FTP had scheduled for production when the project closed in July, 1937. Because One
                    Night was still a work in progress and his second effort was not produced, the national FTP script
                    appraisers had no opportunity to evaluate them. Considering their negative record with other Hoosier
                    plays, this silence might have been a good thing for Tiernan's still optimistic ambitions
                    as a writer in 1936–1937.
            
               
                  66
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Times, April 21, 1936; Do Unto Others, readers' reports, FTP Collection.
               
                  67 Norvelle, "
                            Indianapolis
                         Takes Stock," 28.
               
                  68
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, January 5, 1950; 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, January 4, 1950.
               
                  69
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, August 9, 10, 1936.
               
                  70
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, News, and Times, August 11, 1936; Norvelle, "
                            Indianapolis
                         Takes Stock," 28.
            
            
            
               SCENE FROM A NIGHT AT BRENDA'S
               
               Theatre of the Thirties Collection, George Mason University, Fairfax, 
                            Virginia
                        .
            
            Indiana's FTP closed before the major criticism of the national FTP damaged its reputation
                    with a taint of radicalism. Norvelle's selection of traditional and nonpolitical plays
                    would have exempted the Hoosier project from most of that criticism anyway. The Indiana FTP was a
                    brief and small episode during the depression, and it did not aspire to greatness or originality as
                    did its national model. It existed to create jobs for the unemployed and to provide entertainment at
                    a low cost. In those two goals it succeeded admirably. Approximately seventy people drew decent
                    wages for plying their craft at Keith's to an audience estimated at 150,000.71 Many of those employees would continue their careers after the FTP closed in 1937, some
                    as actors, some in broadcasting, some in technical work. A few returned to college, and a few
                    retired or returned to relief rolls.72 As short-lived and modest as it was, the
                    Hoosier FTP provides another example of individualism and regional pride to add to the long list
                    that characterizes Indiana history. Pursuing an independent course despite federal wishes to the
                        
                  
                     71 Flanagan, Arena, 156; 
                                Indianapolis
                             News, June 25, 1937.
                  
                     72 Norvelle, Interview I, 18; and 
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, July 8, 1937.
               
                     contrary, and boosting Hoosier playwrights in the face of
                    national conformity, the FTP in Indiana shone uniquely in the national spotlight.
            In a broader context the Indiana FTP serves as a microcosm of the political tensions that had kept
                    federal and Hoosier officials wary of each other for generations. The Great Depression heightened
                    those tensions, especially when relief and public works activity created additional disagreements
                    over funding and administration. Norvelle's interpretation of the FTP—jobs and
                    regionalism—was closely allied with that of the WPA vision. When Flanagan added her own
                    aesthetic and national dimensions to that vision, an inconsistency of goals emerged. This
                    philosophical contradiction further strained relations between 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Since the 1960s some historians have argued that the roots of the National Endowment for the Arts
                    (NEA) reach back to Federal One, which included the FTP. Indeed, President Lyndon B.
                    Johnson's political career began in the 1930s and his Great Society measure can be seen as
                    a continuation of the New Deal's subsidies for the arts. A closer parallel for the Indiana
                    FTP, however, would be the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act (CETA) of 1973. CETA provided
                    employment, wages, and training on the job, a less sophisticated concept than the NEA but one more
                    in line with what Norvelle and his company were doing at Keith's Theatre in the 1930s.
         
         
         
            "The Diploma Pedler": Dr. John Cook Bennett and the Christian College, 
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana
            Andrew F. Smith*
            On December 12, 1832, Hardin H. Moore, Esq., representative from 
                        Floyd County
                    , petitioned the Indiana General Assembly to incorporate a Christian College in 
                        New Albany
                    . The first name on the petition was that of John Cook Bennett, identified as the
                    college's agent, president, and bishop.1 Forty-three days later, after
                    approval by the House and the Senate, a bill incorporating the institution was enacted into law.2 As did so many other colleges founded before the Civil War, the Christian
                    College promptly floundered;3 and it would probably have been long since
                    forgotten had it not been for the questionable activities of its chief proponent. As chancellor of
                    the Christian College, Bennett traveled about the country conferring assorted degrees for a small
                    fee. He maintained that his actions were both legal and ethical. Legislative committees, medical
                    societies, religious leaders, even some Masons, disagreed, considering Bennett to be variously an
                    itinerant peddler, an imposter, a fraud, a forger, a vagabond, and otherwise "a notorious
                    individual."
            Bennett had been born in 
                        Massachusetts
                     in 1804 but had lived most of his early life in southeastern 
                        Ohio
                    . In November, 1825, he was licensed to practice medicine after serving a three-year
                    "preceptorship" with his uncle. He claimed to have attended lectures at McGill
                    College in 
                        Montreal
                     and to have received his M.D. from the 
                  
                     * Andrew F. Smith is president of the American Forum for
                            Global Education, a nonprofit educational organization in 
                                New York City
                            . He is a frequent contributor to educational and historical journals and has
                            recently completed a book, The Tomato in America: Early History, Culture, and Cookery
                            (forthcoming, 1994). He is currently writing a biography of John Cook Bennett.
                  
                     1 Indiana, House Journal (1832), 96; Indiana, Laws
                            (1832–1833), 37.
                  
                     2 Indiana, Laws (1832–1833), 37–38.
                  
                     3 The failure rate for colleges created before the Civil War has been
                            estimated at 81 percent. See Burton J. Bledstein, The Culture of Professionalism: The Middle
                            Class and Development of Higher Education in America (
                                New York
                            , 1976), 242.
               
                     "College Medical D'Emulation."4 Bennett, who had been raised a Methodist, abruptly became a Christian preacher
                    in 1830.5 He did so "in consequence of a preference for those liberal
                    Scriptural and Christian views and sentiments inculcated by Mr. Campbell and other Disciples or
                        Christians."6
            
            The Christian church was established by the union of three groups in 1832. Thomas Campbell and his
                    son Alexander strongly advocated Protestant reunion based upon the discarding of sectarian creeds
                    and the restoring of "primitive Christianity." Walter Scott, the evangelist of the
                    Baptist Mahoning Association in eastern 
                        Ohio
                    , joined the Campbells as did Barton W. Stone and other Presbyterians in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The movement was variously identified as the Christian church, Christian Disciples,
                    Christians, Disciples of Christ, or factiously as the Campbellites, as it was then led by Alexander
                        Campbell.7 With the support of Alexander Campbell, Bennett attempted
                    unsuccessfully to launch colleges in 
                        Ohio
                     and in 
                        Wheeling
                    , then located in 
                        Virginia
                    ,8 before coming to Indiana. Bennett arrived in the Hoosier state in
                    late 1832 and advertised his medical services in 
                        New Albany
                     in January, 1833.9
            
            The citizens of 
                        New Albany
                     were delighted that the Christian church had selected their town as the site for a
                    college. Strategically located below the falls in the Ohio River, 
                        New Albany
                     had been founded in 1813 and incorporated three years later. In 1833 it was the largest
                    city in Indiana and was rapidly expanding. Its population of about three thousand was increasing at
                    the rate of 150 people per year. The town had seven hundred buildings, one hundred of which had been
                    constructed in the summer and fall of 1832 alone. Included were twenty bars, sixteen dry goods
                    stores, nine grocery stores, three churches, three steam mills (flour, corn, and saw), two 
                  
                     4
                            
                        St. Clairsville, Ohio
                     , National Historian and St. Clairsville
                            Advertiser, August 6, 1831, March 16, 1833; clipping from the 
                                New Albany
                             Gazette, in John L. Riddell's Journal, vol. VII, pp. 32–34
                            (Manuscripts, Rare Books and University Archives, Tulane University, 
                                New Orleans
                            ). Bennett claimed to have attended McGill in 1831. The university did offer
                            courses in medicine at the time but did not confer medical degrees. McGill's
                            records for 1831 have been lost. No information has been located regarding the
                            "College Medical D'Emulation."
                  
                     5 Records of the Pickaway Masonic Lodge #23 as cited in Mervin B.
                            Hogan, "John Cook Bennett and Pickaway Lodge No. 23," October 12, 1983,
                            mimeographed paper, pp. 9–10 (University of 
                                Utah
                             Library, 
                                Salt Lake City
                            ).
                  
                     6
                            
                        St. Clairsville, Ohio
                     , Gazette, March 26, 1831.
                  
                     7 The best general historical work on the Christian church is Winfred
                            E. Carrison and Alfred T. DeGroot, The Disciples of Christ: A History (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1948). See also Henry K. Shaw, Hoosier Disciples: A Comprehensive History of
                            the Christian Churches (Disciples of Christ) In Indiana (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1952); Shaw, Buckeye Disciples: A History of the Disciples of Christ in 
                                Ohio
                             (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1952); Alanson Wilcox, A History of the Disciples of Christ in 
                                Ohio
                             (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1918); and Charles Crossfield Ware, Barton Warren Stone (
                                St. Louis
                            , [1932]).
                  
                     8
                            
                                Ohio
                            , House Journal (1831), 207; St. Clairsville Gazette, March 26, 1831; St.
                            Clairsville National Historian and St. Clairsville Advertiser, August 6, 1831; Franklin
                            College Register, Biographical and Historical, by the Board of Trustees,
                            1825–1908 (New Athens, 1908), 8–9.
                  
                     9 Clipping from 
                                New Albany
                             Gazette, in Riddell's Journal, VII, 32–34.
               
                    
                    
                  JOHN COOK BENNETT DRESSED AS A MAJOR-GENERAL FOR THE
                                NAUVOO LEGION
                  
                  Reproduced from John Cook Bennett, The History of the Saints; or an Expose of
                            Joe Smith and Mormonism (
                                Boston
                            , 1842); photograph courtesy Andrew F. Smith
               
                     shipyards, a foundry with finishing shops, a courthouse, jail,
                    and poorhouse. The town also had a lyceum, with a "well-selected" library of
                    nearly one hundred volumes, a seminary, a public school, and several private schools.10
            
            The farsighted citizens of 
                        New Albany
                     believed that a college would make an excellent addition to their community.11 Commenting upon the Christian College, the editors of the 
                        New Albany
                     Gazette predicted that the town would "reap great advantages from it"
                    and hoped that the citizens would "be found worthy of the preference given to them and
                    their town." They prophesied, "a direction will be given to its influence which
                    will result in much benefit to the moral condition of all who shall partake of its
                        instruction."12
            
            Other observers were also enthusiastic and hopeful. J. V. Himes, an elder in the Christian church in 
                        Boston
                    , hailed with joy "the idea of a University, established on liberal principles,
                    where our young men might be educated."13 John G. Affleck, the editor
                    of the National Historian, reported that Bennett was "like a mountain at the setting of the
                    sun, casting a shadow of ten times its natural dimensions." Affleck believed that Bennett,
                    who had lived in Indiana but a few months, had "overstepped and overshadowed the whole
                    tribe of Hoosheroons, from Dan to Beersheba."14
            
            Bennett held the first meeting of the Christian College trustees in his home on February 16, 1833.
                    Eight of the ten corporators attended the meeting, at which they elected officers and faculty,
                    adopted bylaws, and passed ordinances.15 Bennett stepped down as president but
                    was elected to the position of chancellor and was 
                  
                     10
                            
                                New Albany
                             Gazette, quoted in the 
                                Cincinnati
                             Baptist Weekly Journal of the Mississippi Valley, March 1,
                            1832; John Scott, Indiana Gazetteer, or Topographical Dictionary & (1826; 2nd ed., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1833), 130–31.
                  
                     11 This "booster" belief was not uncommon at the
                            time. See Daniel J. Boorstin, The Americans: The National Experience (
                                New York
                            , 1965), 152–61; Don Harrison Doyle, The Social Order of a Frontier
                            Community: 
                        Jacksonuille, Illinois
                     , 1825–70
                                    (
                        Urbana, Ill.
                     , 1978), 62–91.
                  
                     12 Clipping from 
                                New Albany
                             Gazette, February 18, 1833, in Riddell's Journal, VII,
                            32–34.
                  
                     13 Christian Palladium, IV (September 15, 1835), 148. This journal was
                            launched in 
                                Boston
                             in 1831 and was edited by a Mr. Barger.
                  
                     14 St. Clairsville National Historian and St. Clairsuille Aduertiser,
                            March 16, 1833. John Gladstone Affleck was a physician born and educated in 
                                Scotland
                            . He had been Bennett's partner in 1830. In addition to his medical
                            practice Affleck edited four newspapers during his life. See A. T. McKelvey, ed., Centennial
                            History of 
                        Belmont County, Ohio
                      and Representative Citizens (
                                Chicago
                            , 1903), 209.
                  
                     15 Barton Stone and Walter Scott stated that they did not attend this
                            meeting. The seven other corporators in addition to Bennett were: M. Cole, Jesse Bledsoe, N.
                            Field, F. E. Becton, C. Bosworth, B. H. Miles, and Seth Woodruff. Field, Becton, Bosworth,
                            and Miles were not elected as officers or faculty in the college. "N.
                            Field" was probably Nathaniel Field, who was an ardent abolitionist from 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , Indiana. He served in the Indiana state legislature in 1838–1839,
                            was the president of the Indiana Medical Society, and edited the Christian Review and the
                            Journal of Christianity. DeWitt C. Goodrich and Charles R. Tuttle, An Illustrated History of
                            the State of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1875), 668–69. No biographical information has surfaced about
                            Becton, Bosworth, and Miles. Cole, Bledsoe, and Woodruff are identified below.
               
                     empowered to preside at trustees' meetings, confer
                    degrees, remove officers or faculty members, and commission "agents for any purpose
                    connected with the interest of the Corporation."16 Prominent leaders of
                    the Christian church from 
                  Virginia, Ohio, Kentucky
               , and Indiana were elected officers. Included were Alexander Campbell
                    (president), Thomas Campbell (vice-president), Barton W. Stone (vice-president), David Burnett
                    (vice-president), Walter Scott (president of the faculty), and Jesse Bledsoe (secretary).17 The versatile Seth Woodruff from 
                        New Albany
                    —he alternately was a bricklayer, a tavern keeper, a Baptist minister, and a
                    judge—became the treasurer.18
            
            The medical faculty included Dr. Chauncey Perkins, Bennett's friend since the mid 1820s,
                    then living in 
                  Erie, Pennsylvania
               , and John L. Riddell, an adjunct professor at the
                    Reformed Medical College, a small sectarian college in 
                  Worthington, Ohio
               .19 Bennett asked Riddell to approach Dr. Thomas Morrow, president of the
                    college, about the possibility of relocating to 
                        New Albany
                    . Morrow expressed little interest, mainly because he was engaged in a lucrative private
                    medical practice in the 
                        Worthington
                     area and did not want to abandon it.20
            
            Several provisions of the bylaws for the Christian College were highly innovative. The charter and
                    the bylaws, for example, proclaimed that Christian College was nonsectarian, a policy unusual at the
                    time as most colleges were launched by churches to promote 
                  
                     16 Clipping from 
                                New Albany
                             Gazette, February 18, 1833, in Riddell's Journal, VII,
                            32–34.
                  
                     17 Bledsoe had served as a judge, a 
                                United States
                             senator from 
                                Kentucky
                            , a member of both houses of the 
                                Kentucky
                             legislature, and a professor of law at Transylvania University in 
                                Lexington
                            . Ware, Barton Warren Stone, 196.
                  
                     18
                            
                                New Albany
                             Ledger, November 3, 1852; L. A. Williams & Co., pub., History of the 
                                Ohio
                             Fulls Cities and their Counties (2 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1882), 11, 202; Mary Scribner Davis Collins, "
                                New Albany
                            , With a Short Sketch of the Scribner Family," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XVII (September, 1921), 221. Other officers selected were Thomas Henley, a
                            Christian minister from 
                        Fayette County, Kentucky
                     ; Jacob Creath, Jr., a Christian
                            minister living in 
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     ; James Fishbeck, also a
                            Christian minister in 
                                Lexington
                             and a professor of religion at Transylvania University; James Challen, a
                            Christian minister living in 
                                Cincinnati
                            ; and Mordecia Cole, a Christian minister in neighboring 
                                Clark County
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     19 Chauncey Perkins attended the University of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             but received his M.D. from the College of Physicians and Surgeons in 
                                New York City
                             in 1818. He practiced medicine in 
                        Athens, Ohio
                     , until
                            1828 and then moved to 
                        Erie, Pennsylvania
                     , where he ran an all-purpose
                            drug emporium. Perkins had been acquainted with Bennett since the early 1820s and had served
                            on Bennett's medical examination committee in 1825. At 
                                New Albany
                            , Perkins was appointed secretary of the Medical College and a professor.
                            Riddell had been born in 1807 and had studied under Amos Eaton at 
                                Rensselaer
                             School at 
                        Troy, New York
                     . He received an A.M. and in
                            1830 began traveling and lecturing on chemistry in upstate 
                                New York
                             and 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . Riddell had met Perkins and Bennett while lecturing on chemistry in
                                    
                        Erie, Pennsylvania
                     . Bennett wrote to him on the subject of medical
                            colleges and encouraged him to visit 
                                Wheeling
                            . When Riddell arrived, Bennett unsuccessfully tried to acquire a position for
                            him at the Western Reserve College in 
                        Hudson, Ohio
                     .
                            Riddell's Journal, May 6, 1832, IV, 42.
                  
                     20 Riddell's Journal, March 18, April 4, 1833, VI, 108,
                        125.
               
                     their specific religious beliefs. The bylaws also offered
                    doctorates in fifteen academic subjects. During the early nineteenth century M.A. degrees were
                    unusual, and "Doctorates" in areas other than medicine, theology, and law were
                        nonexistent.21 Perhaps just as unusual, Bennett proposed to confer
                    doctorates on women. Riddell tried to dissuade him from this course of action, particularly in
                    medicine, as "prejudiced beings") would oppose it. Bennett roared that he had hung
                    out "the banner of reform" and wanted others to rally around it;22 nevertheless, he meekly revised the bylaws to exclude women from receiving medical degrees.
                    Women could still achieve doctorates in seven other areas of study, however, and the Christian
                    College became one of the first publicly chartered coeducational colleges in America.23
            
            A reform that Bennett refused to compromise was a provision that permitted the awarding of diplomas
                    based upon examination. Bennett had been interested in this concept since the early 1820s when, at
                    the completion of his own three-year preceptorship in medicine, he was required to pass a six-hour
                    examination administered by several physicians, including Perkins. During the examination he
                    defended the proposition that "all applicants for a Diploma granting plenary power to
                    practice Medicine and Surgery according to the laws of the State, shall be examined by the Censors,
                    and, if found qualified, received into full membership without regard to the time studied."
                    Bennett believed that practical experience with a competent mentor was the best way to become
                    proficient as a physician.24
            
            The Christian College bylaws stated that degrees were "merely certification in attestation
                    of the attainments of the persons on whom they are conferred." While the degrees
                    "should never be bestowed too cheaply," they should be based upon merit and not
                    upon "the length of time spent in preparatory studies.") Therefore,
                    "public quarterly meetings of the Faculties and members of the Corporation" would
                    be held 
                  
                     21 Frederick Rudolph reports that Yale conferred the first Ph.D. in
                            the 
                                United States
                             in 1861, almost thirty years after Bennett's granting of
                            "Doctorates." See Frederick Rudolph, Curriculum: A History of the American
                            Undergraduate Course of study Since 1636 (
                                New York
                            , 1977), 115.
                  
                     22 John L. Riddell to John Cook Bennett, April 4, 1833, copy in
                            Riddell's Journal, VII, 125–27. Bennett's letter to Riddell has
                            not been found, but his comments are quoted in ibid.
                  
                     23 Copy of the 
                                New Albany
                             Gazette, February 18, 1833, in Riddell's Journal, VII,
                            32–34; "Proceedings of the Physicians and Surgeons of the County of 
                                New York
                             Convened on the First Day of July MDCCCVI," bound typescript, pp.
                            539–43 (
                                New York
                             Academy of Medicine, 
                                New York City
                            ). The "Proceedings" are actually minutes of meetings, which
                            were begun in 1806, of the Physicians and Surgeons of the County of 
                                New York
                            . They were typed and bound at some unknown date. See also Frederick C. Waite,
                            "The First Medical Diploma Mill in the 
                                United States
                            ," Bulletin of the History of Medicine, XX (November, 1946),
                            495–96. Oberlin College did not grant degrees to women until 1841. See Rudolph,
                            Curriculum, 139.
                  
                     24 Botanico-Medical Recorder, XIII (September 13, 1845), 354.
               
                    
                    
                        for the purpose of examining applicants for degrees, as well as for conferring them upon the
                            Alumni of the Institution. Persons self taught or taught any where in public or private
                            schools, who appear before these quarterly meetings of the College, for the purpose of
                            graduating, and who shall stand an examination in any department for which degrees shall be
                            conferred, shall obtain such degrees as they are entitled to from merit.25
                  
                    
            
            Despite this seemingly well-organized effort to get the Christian College underway, problems emerged
                    almost from the beginning. Some editors of regional sectarian newspapers promptly attacked
                    Bennett's pretentious plans. John M. Peck, a Baptist elder and editor of the Pioneer in
                            
                  Rock Springs, Illinois
               , reported on the grandiose "absurdities" of
                    the Christian College with "much merriment and sarcasm."26
            
            A more serious problem arose with leaders of the Christian church. When Bennett applied to the
                    legislature for the charter, he listed ten petitioners including Stone and Scott. The Christian
                    College's charter identified Stone as the corporation's secretary, and he was
                    subsequently elected a vice-president. Stone, however, stated that he "had no knowledge,
                    nor hint that application was to be made to the legislature for such a charter, or had been made, or
                    granted" until he saw it announced in the 
                        New Albany
                     Gazette. He was ignorant "of the appointment of presidents, vice presidents,
                    secretaries and all other officers, till informed by the same journal." He claimed
                    "that not half dozen of our influential friends, or brethren, had been
                        consulted."27 Bennett sent him a "pompous letter"
                    requesting that he print an announcement about the college in the Christian Messenger. Stone ignored
                    the letter.28
            
            Scott also claimed that he had first heard about the college when he received a letter stating that
                    he had been unanimously elected "President of the Faculty." Bennett also sent
                    Scott a copy of the Christian College charter that listed Scott's name as one of the
                    original petitioners. Scott viewed this "as an absolute forgery" and
                    "declined every and all connection" with the school. He refused to publish a
                    notice about the college in the Evangelist and wrote against it in his private correspondence.29
            
            In a letter dated March 1, 1833, Bennett informed Alexander Campbell of the creation of the Christian
                    College and reminded him of a discussion they had once had about the importance of nonsectarian
                        
                  
                     25 Copy of 
                                New Albany
                             Gazette, February 18, 1833, in Riddell's Journal, VIII,
                            32–34.
                  
                     26
                            
                        Rock Springs, Illinois
                     , Pioneer, quoted in the Christian Messenger, VII
                            (June, 1833), 190–91. The Christian Messenger was edited by Barton Stone, who
                            lived in 
                        Paris, Kentucky
                     , and John T. Johnson. It was published in
                                    
                        Georgetown, Kentucky
                     , in 1833 and 1834. In 1835 it was edited
                            solely by Stone, who had moved to 
                        Jacksonville, Illinois
                     , where the journal remained until it ceased publication.
                  
                     27 Christian Messenger, VII (June, 1833), 190–91.
                  
                     28 Christian Palladium, IV (September 15, 1835), 148–49.
                  
                     29 Evangelist, III (September 1, 1834), 205–206. The
                            Evangelist was launched in 1831 in 
                        Carthage,
                                    Ohio
                     . It was edited by Scott and
                            was subsequently published in 
                                Cincinnati
                            .
               
                     education. According to Bennett, from that day on he had
                    "been endeavoring to excite an interest in the community in behalf of a literary
                    institution." He had, he announced, finally succeeded in establishing just such a school in 
                        New Albany
                    . Bennett encouraged Campbell to attend the April trustees' meeting and
                    reported that the academic programs of the college were to begin shortly thereafter. Finally, he
                    requested that Campbell publish a favorable announcement about the Christian College in the
                    Millennial Harbinger.30
            
            Whatever Bennett's motivation, his actions were extremely undiplomatic. Campbell was upset
                    with the entire undertaking. The establishment of a Christian college was "wholly
                    unexpected." He had, he affirmed, "heard nothing of this project until it was
                    consummated." Campbell had believed that Bennett's failure to establish colleges
                    in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     had broken his spirits and that he "had given it up." Campbell stated
                    that the remarks to which Bennett alluded "were not made with a design to enlist"
                    him in such an enterprise, particularly as Bennett was already involved in it. Distressed that the
                    members of the Christian church had not been contacted before submission of the proposal to the
                    Indiana legislature, Campbell commented that it would "have been more respectful to the
                    judgment and wishes of the brethren to have consulted them on the propriety of such a
                    scheme." He presumed, however, that in "the pressure of events" Bennett
                    had "not time to confer with many of them upon the matter." Campbell was
                    particularly concerned with the purported connection between the college and the Christian church, a
                    connection he wanted severed. He refused to attend the trustees' meeting scheduled for
                        April.31
            
            Although Campbell's election as president of the Christian College had been announced in
                    newspapers, Bennett's letter to Campbell made no mention of this fact.32 Even after the exchange of letters Bennett continued to publish statements identifying
                    Campbell as the president of the institution. It is likely that Bennett believed Campbell's
                    involvement would encourage the participation of Scott, Stone, and other Christian ministers.
                    Campbell's connection was also a necessity for potential fund raising activities within the
                    Christian church.
            The second meeting of the trustees of the Christian College was held on April 24, 1833. Campbell,
                    Stone, and Scott refused to 
                  
                     30 Millennial Harbinger, IV (April, 1833), 189–91. The
                            Millennial Harbinger was edited by Alexander Campbell in 
                        Bethany, Virginia
                     
                            (now 
                                West Virginia
                            ). It began publication in 1829.
                  
                     31 Ibid. It is interesting to note that Campbell addressed Bennett as
                            "Bethren" and not as "Bishop," which suggests that
                            Bennett's title of bishop may have been self-conferred.
                  
                     32 The notice of Campbell's election was published in the 
                                New Albany
                             Gazette in February and was later reprinted in the St. Clairsville National
                            Historian and St. Clairsville Advertiser on March 16, 1833; Campbell's response was
                            published in ibid., April 27, 1833.
               
                     attend. According to Bennett, Scott did not come because of
                    "very bad health."33 It is probable that other Christian
                    ministers also stayed away as a result of Campbell's published concerns and the private
                    correspondence from Stone and Scott. Whatever the attendance, business was conducted. Faculty
                    members were appointed, and three new ordinances were passed. "Ordinance No. 2"
                    stated that all male members of the Christian Church were members of the corporation.
                    "Ordinance No. 3" changed the bylaws to give Bennett the power to call
                    trustees' meetings "at any time he may deem it expedient." This revision
                    was in direct violation of the college's charter, which required quarterly meetings of the
                    trustees. Based upon Campbell's concerns, "Ordinance No. 4" stated that
                    the trustees retained the name of the Christian College as required by their charter but changed the
                    name of the institution that they supervised to the "University of Indiana, at 
                        New Albany
                    ."34 This strange twist of logic satisfied Campbell. He
                    indicated that "as a literary institution, liberal and anti-sectarian, we wish it all
                        success."35
            
            The most serious problem confronting the Christian College was financial. Western colleges were
                    usually supported through a combination of subscriptions from local residents, financial support
                    from the church affiliated with the institution, and charity from eastern sources.36 Bennett personally had little money, and there was no indication that other trustees were
                    willing to help launch the college. Bennett had counted upon financial support from the Christian
                    Disciples. He asked Campbell to solicit funds for the college, but Campbell refused. Bennett then
                    approached leaders of the Christian Disciples on the east coast.37 He claimed to
                    have received a grand total of fifty-four dollars in contributions for his efforts. This money he
                    used in part to reimburse his out-of-pocket expenses, which totaled one hundred fifty dollars.
                    Others later claimed that he had received more money and had pocketed the remainder.38 Whatever the amount raised, it was not enough to launch the college. Bennett needed
                    another way to generate revenue.
            
               
                  33 Copy of 
                            New Albany
                         Gazette, in Riddell's Journal, VIII, 32–34.
               
                  34 Ibid.
               
                  35 Millennial Harbinger, IV (May, 1833), 240. In fact, these were not the
                        only names used. At the first meeting of the trustees Bennett referred to the school as the
                        "Christian University College" but later called it the "Christian
                        University." The Indiana Gazetteer, or Topographical Dictionary referred to it as the
                        "University College." A diploma from the Christian College identified it
                        simultaneously as the "University at 
                            New Albany
                        , Indiana," and the "University of Indiana." Others
                        referred to it as the "Indiana College" and the "Bennett Medical
                        College." See the Indiana Gazetteer, or Topographical Dictionary, 131. Isaac S. Smith
                        diploma, Burton Historical Collection (
                            Detroit
                         Public Library, 
                     Detroit, Michigan
                  ).
               
                  36 For example, see the early history of Illinois College in Doyle, The
                        Social Order of a Frontier Community, 22.
               
                  37 Christian Palladium, IV (September 15, 1835), 149.
               
                  38 Bennett to John M. Henderson, May 12, 1835, mss 533,
                        1818–1850, Dr. John M. Henderson Papers (Western Reserve Historical Society,
                                
                     Cleveland, Ohio
                  ).
            
            
            His solution to this dilemma was unique and creative. In 1833 there were only two medical schools
                    west of the Allegheny Mountains. There was no such school in Indiana, and none
                    would be established until 1844. Westerners interested in formal medical education mainly attended
                    eastern colleges, where the cost was prohibitive to all but wealthy individuals. As the population
                    west of the Alleghenies was rapidly expanding, state legislatures approved a variety of systems to
                    meet the medical needs of their citizens, including licensing medical practitioners after an
                    apprenticeship and the successful completion of an examination conducted by a medical society or
                    district. Passage of the examination granted physicians the right to practice medicine but not the
                    honor of listing an M.D. after their name. As medical degrees were difficult to obtain, they were
                    highly prized by their possessors and appreciated by the public, who viewed them as status symbols
                    that certified the possessor as a medical authority. Many qualified practicing physicians, however,
                    did not possess M.D.'s.
            Bennett decided to provide the valued status by conferring M.D.'s upon anyone who passed
                    examinations or who was otherwise obviously qualified. He expanded this concept to include other
                    academic areas such as law, theology, and the arts and sciences. Seventeen days after the Christian
                    College had been chartered by the Indiana legislature, but six days before the first
                    trustees' meeting that approved the bylaws, Bennett told Riddell that an M.D. would be
                    immediately conferred upon him.39 Subsequently, Bennett conferred an LL.D. upon
                    Riddell. At that time Riddell had no background or preparation in medicine or law, nor did he
                    successfully pass any examination. When Scott rejected the offer to become the president of the
                    faculty, Bennett "garnished" an LL.D. upon him to encourage his participation.
                    Scott rejected the degree.40
            
            In late May, 1833, an article in the 
                        New Albany
                     Gazette announced that in November Riddell would lecture on chemistry at the Christian
                    College. Another announcement in the same issue of the newspaper reported that Bennett planned to
                    travel east "to procure some Anatomical preparations for the College, and to make
                    arrangements for the University in general."41 According to Stone,
                    "Soon after this, Mr. Bennett disappeared."42 However, Bennett
                    traveled throughout the midwestern and eastern states conferring M.A.'s, D.D.'s,
                    LL.D.'s, and M.D.'s for ten dollars, except in 
                        New York City
                     where he charged twenty-five dollars.43 As medical colleges
                    regularly charged students considerably more for graduating, 
                  
                     39 Riddell's Journal, February 11, 1833, VII, 56.
                  
                     40 Evangelist, IV (March 2, 1835), 64–65.
                  
                     41 Copy of 
                                New Albany
                             Gazette, May 31, 1833, in Riddell's Journal, VIII, 32–34.
                  
                     42 Christian Palladium, IV (September 15, 1835), 148–49.
                  
                     43 "Proceedings of the Physicians and Surgeons of the County
                            of 
                                New York
                             Convened on the First Day of July MDCCCVI," entry for December 16,
                            1833, pp. 541–43.
               
                     Bennett's fee was not excessive, and he did incur some
                    expenses connected with the examinations and the printing of diplomas.
            Only two diplomas issued by Bennett have been found, and both were issued to the same person.
                    Frederick C. Waite, a medical historian, identified only six recipients of diplomas, but he
                    suspected six others of receiving medical degrees from the Christian College.44
                    Clearly, however, many more degrees were conferred. Scott claimed that Bennett "rained down
                    his L.L.D.'s, D.D.'s, A.Bs., & A.Ms., like a shower of hail."45 Riddell asserted that Bennett lavishly conferred diplomas and "that
                    numerous diplomas were vended and disposed of."46 Another observer
                    reported that Bennett dispensed the "diplomas to every ignoramus who could raise ten
                    dollars to buy one." He knew "many who did buy them, though they were not worth a
                    cent." Bennett filled in the diplomas and "peddled them out."47 J. V. Himes reported that Bennett "lavished his diplomas upon
                    various gentlemen of the different sects in different parts of the 
                        United States
                    ." Himes, who had "acquaintance with some of the gentlemen whom he
                    thus delighted to honor with M.D., A.M., and D.D.," questioned the soundness of
                    Bennett's judgment or "the purity of his motives."48
                    According to Himes, Bennett 
                        
                     conferred degrees upon various gentlemen, some of whom were
                            worthy—others were not. The degrees of D.D. and L.L.D. were conferred in some
                            cases, in which A.B. would have been more than justice called for. The course he pursued was
                            very unwise, if not disgraceful to any American institution. He has degraded the Indiana
                            College, very—very much, in the minds at least of all men of letters.49
                  
                    
            
            James R. Manley, later president of the 
                        New York County
                     Medical Society, reported that Bennett sold the degrees "about the country at
                    various prices, like the merchandize of an itinerant peddlar." In 
                        New York
                    , Bennett reportedly granted diplomas to many student residents without examination. One
                    recipient was not even in the city at the time the degree was conferred. To save labor Bennett
                    engraved the seal of the corporation of the Christian College and lithographed the diploma, leaving
                    only two blanks, one for the name of the recipient, and the other for the day in the date.50 Bennett's signature, as well as those of Perkins, identified as
                    dean, and Riddell, identified as the "Bursar & Registrar," were also
                    lithographed.
            Bennett initially had no authority to use Riddell's name. When Bennett visited 
                        Worthington
                     in late September, Riddell was surprised 
                  
                     44 Waite, "The First Medical Diploma Mill in the 
                                United States
                            ," 496.
                  
                     45 Evangelist, IV (March 2, 1835), 64–65.
                  
                     46 Riddell's Journal, November 19, 1833, IX, 127; ibid.,
                            December 30, 1833, X, 15.
                  
                     47 Western Medical Reformer, V (June, 1845), 12–14.
                  
                     48 Christian Palladium, IV (September 15, 1835), 148–49.
                  
                     49 Evangelist, IV (March 2, 1835), 64–65.
                  
                     50 James R. Manley, "An Address Delivered before the Medical
                            Society of the County of 
                                New York
                            ," July 25, 1836, pamphlet, p. 15. A copy of this pamphlet, published
                            by the Medical Society of the County of 
                                New York
                            , can be found at the 
                                New York
                             Academy of Medicine.
               
                     to find his name followed by an "LL.D."
                    affixed to the diploma.51 A few months later Bennett returned to 
                        Worthington
                     hoping to join the faculty of the 
                        Ohio
                     Reformed Medical College, but Rid-dell told him that it would not work as
                    Bennett's vending of diplomas had caused much "excitement."52 Some students, of course, liked the idea. While at the medical college in 
                        Worthington
                    , Bennett and Riddell granted degrees to two students. One, named
                    "DeLathule," had had only a few days' instruction in medicine, but was so
                    pleased with the diploma that he promptly left 
                        Worthington
                     to set up practice. Bennett and Riddell later maintained that DeLathule had passed a
                    "protracted" examination.53
            
            While in 
                        Worthington
                    , Bennett had a brief conversation with Thomas Morrow, president of the Reformed Medical
                    College. This occasion was purportedly the only time the two men ever met, and Morrow claimed that
                    the conversation had nothing to do with diplomas or degrees. However, Bennett conferred degrees upon
                    Morrow and another faculty member, Ichabod Jones. Perhaps by design Riddell gave the degrees to the
                    two men after Bennett had departed. Riddell and Bennett claimed that Morrow, who did not possess an
                    M.D., accepted the degree with eagerness. When Morrow discovered that DeLathule had also been
                    awarded a degree and had subsequently left his college, he refused to pay for his own M.D.54 Morrow claimed that Bennett granted degrees to prominent individuals as an
                    inducement to encourage others to purchase them.55 He later asserted that he
                    wrote to Bennett objecting to the practice of selling degrees but that the letter was not delivered
                    as the bearer could not find Bennett.56 Under pressure from Morrow and Jones,
                    Riddell rejected the LL.D. degree and the position of treasurer and bursar at the Christian College.
                    On November 24 Riddell and Jones confronted Bennett, who had by then relocated to
                            
                  Columbus, Ohio
               . Bennett promised that he would not confer more degrees on the
                    Reformed Medical College students "until after they shall have graduated," and he
                    also promised that Riddell's name "should not hereafter appear on any of his
                    diplomas under penalty of death!"57
            
            In addition to granting degrees himself, Bennett claimed that the Christian College bylaws authorized
                    him to send out other commissioners to perform the same service.58 During the
                    summer of 
                  
                     51 Riddell's Journal, October 2, November 20, 27, 1833, VIII,
                            56, 134, 142–43.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., November 19, 1833, IX, 127.
                  
                     53
                     Botanico-Medical Recorder, XIII (September 13,
                            1845), 354.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid.
                  
                     55
                            Western Medical Reformer Extra, V (September 8, 1845), 1–8.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid.
                  
                     57 Riddell's Journal, November 20, 24, 1833, VIII, 134, 140.
                  
                     58 "Proceedings of the Physicians and Surgeons of the County
                            of 
                                New York
                             Convened on the First Day of July MDCCCVI," entry for December 16,
                            1833, pp. 541–43. The Christian College bylaws authorized the
                            "Bishop" to "commission and send out Agents fur any purpose
                            connected with the interest of the Corporation"; however, the bylaws clearly
                            required that the trustees vote on all degrees confirmed by examination. Clipping from 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Gazette, in Riddell's Journal, VIII, 32–34.
               
                    
                    
                  DIPLOMA ISSUED BY JOHN
                                COOK BENNETT, 1833
                  Burton Historical Collection, 
                                Detroit
                             Public Library, 
                        Detroit,
                                    Michigan
                     .
               
                    
                    
                  DIPLOMA ISSUED BY JOHN
                                COOK BENNETT, 1833
                  Burton Historical Collection, 
                                Detroit
                             Public Library, 
                        Detroit,
                                    Michigan
                     .
               
                     1833 he commissioned Drs. John Gray and John Baxter, both
                    members of the 
                        New York County
                     Medical Society, to examine prospective students and confer degrees in 
                        New York
                    . Gray "solicited the appointment" to examine candidates and disperse
                    diplomas that differed from those granted by Bennett.59 On December 9, 1833, the
                    society appointed a committee, chaired by Manley, to investigate "the subject of diplomas
                    purporting to be issued by the University of Indiana." Seven days later the committee
                    reported that they had made a "diligent search" into "the character and
                    validity of Diplomas of the degree of Doctor of Medicines" issued by the
                    "University of Indiana." In fact, most of their information came from an article
                    published in the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Gazette.60 The committee considered the granting of diplomas
                    to be against the laws of 
                        New York
                     and concluded that this presented "an entire new case in the medical annals of
                    this county, and in their opinion a very proper one for the attention of a Grand Jury."
                    Baxter and Gray were expelled from the society. At a meeting held the following week, however, the
                    expulsion was reversed, and Gray and Baxter were reprimanded. The society sent copies of the report,
                    charter, and bylaws of the Christian College and a copy of a diploma to the 
                        New York
                     legislature "in order to induce them to pass an act which shall require every
                    person coming from any other State, or any foreign country, to be examined and licensed by the
                    constituted authorities in this State before being admitted to practice physic and
                    surgery." In addition, the society published a statement of the proceedings and sent a copy
                    "to the Governor of the State of Indiana."61
            
            By the time the report was issued, Bennett had set up an office in 
                        Columbus
                     and was advertising his professional services in the 
                  
                            Ohio State
                         Journal.62 He was also lobbying the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature for the creation of another university, "The Classical, Literary,
                    and Scientific Institution of the Scioto Valley." Bennett planned to
                    establish the new school in 
                        Franklin County
                    , near the 
                        Ohio
                     Reformed Medical College.63 The bill passed the 
                        Ohio
                     House of Representatives in December, 1833, during the first week of the session with
                    little discussion.64
            
            
               
                  59
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Courier and Enquirer, January 17, 1834.
               
                  60 Clipping from 
                            New Albany
                        
                        Gazette, in Riddell's Journal, VIII, 32–34.
               
                  61 Gray and Baxter were not permitted to examine the charges against them,
                        nor were they able to offer contrary evidence to the committee. Both felt that the action taken
                        against them was unwarranted. Gray claimed that he acted "according to law and good
                        conscience." Baxter stated that the diplomas he distributed were given only to those
                        deserving of them. Mostly they were conferred upon licentiates of the 
                            New York County
                         Medical Society. According to Baxter, if the licentiates were unqualified, the
                        society was to blame. See "Proceedings of the Physicians and Surgeons of the County of 
                            New York
                         Convened on the First Day of July MDCCCVI," entries for December
                        9–30, 1833, pp. 539–54.
               
                  62
                        
                            Columbus
                        
                        
                     
                                Ohio State
                             Journal, November 30, 1833.
               
                  63 Riddell's Journal, December 13, 1833, VIII, 163.
               
                  64
                        
                            Ohio
                        , House Journal (1833), 6.
            
            
            When Morrow learned that the proposed college was to be located but a few miles from his own, he
                    informed the chairman of the 
                        Ohio
                     Senate Standing Committee on Colleges and Universities that Bennett had previously sold
                    medical degrees. The Senate sent the bill to a committee to investigate the charges. The committee
                    reported that the bill included only two petitioners, one of whom was Bennett, who had made no
                    reference to his position as "Chancellor" of the Christian College and who had
                    identified himself as the "President of a Conference of the Christian Church in 
                        New Jersey
                    ." The petition included the names of forty-nine corporators, of whom only four
                    were found definitely to reside in 
                        Ohio
                    . One name, "N. Field," had been previously listed as a corporator of
                    the Christian College in 
                        New Albany
                    . Bennett had used most, if not all, of the names in the petition without their
                    knowledge or consent. Referring to Bennett as "a notorious individual," the
                    committee charged him with "sinister" motives in attempting to create the
                    university and contended that he had used, without authority, the name of the Christian church,
                    whose leaders declared that the project met with their "decided disapprobation."
                    The Senate unanimously voted the bill down.65
            
            The 
                        Columbus
                     newspapers printed much of the report assailing Bennett.66 When
                    Riddell received word of the twin debacles in 
                        Columbus
                     and 
                        New York
                    , he immediately wrote to the 
                        New York
                    
                    Courier and Enquirer claiming that his name had been used on the diplomas without
                    permission and that he had never been informed of, or accepted, the appointment of
                        "Bursar-Treasurer."67 To make certain his denial was
                    published, he enclosed two dollars to pay for a six-month subscription to the newspaper. Riddell
                    believed that the Indiana legislature was about to launch an investigation of the Christian College,
                    and he promptly wrote to the speaker of the House of Representatives denying any connection with the
                    diploma vending scheme, "the whole done without my knowledge or consent."68 As Riddell had discussed the diplomas with Bennett on many occasions, and as
                    he had handed out diplomas to at least four persons, his protestations were disingenuous.
            Bennett's activities connected with the Christian College haunted him for over ten years.
                    Early in 1834 Bennett applied to the Board of Trustees of the 
                        Granville
                     Baptist College to act as an agent for the establishment of a medical department in
                    connection with the college. His application was promptly rejected because of his selling of
                        diplomas.69 In February, 1834, George Patterson, a 
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., 142–44.
                  
                     66
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                            Sentinel, December 31, 1833; 
                                Columbus
                            
                            
                        
                                    Ohio State
                                 Journal, January 1, 1834.
                  
                     67 The letter was written on January 1, 1834, and was published in the 
                                New York
                            
                            Courier and Enquirer on January 13, 1834.
                  
                     68 Riddell's Journal, December 30, 1833, X, 15.
                  
                     69
                            Western Medical Reformer Extra, V (September 8, 1845), 7. The 
                                Granville
                             (Baptist) College was later renamed Denison University.
               
                     minister in 
                  Circleville, Ohio
               , preferred
                    charges against Bennett in an attempt to expel him from the Masons, of which he had been a member
                    since 1826. The charges included Bennett's vending of diplomas for money to persons who had
                    "neither pretensions nor right to such Diplomas."70
            
            In July, 1834, the trustees of Willoughby University of Lake Erie in
                            
                  Chagrin, Ohio
               , received a letter from "J. C. Bennett," who
                    identified himself as a physician from 
                  South
                        Bloomfield, Ohio
               . Bennett
                    requested permission to become their agent. The trustees responded by asking him to establish their
                    medical college. He joined the Board of Trustees as an honorary member and was appointed a professor
                    of midwifery. Subsequently, the faculty elected him president of the medical college. Within a few
                    months, however, Bennett had been publicly identified as the "Diploma Pedler."71 He was charged with vending diplomas from the Christian College and was fired
                    from Willoughby University at the end of the first term. Two of the Willoughby faculty who attacked
                    Bennett were Dr. George Jones and Dr. Francis W. Walsh. When Bennett heard that he had been fired,
                    he claimed that he had never conferred the diplomas "upon unworthy
                    persons—excepting the cases of Walsh and Jones."72
            
            Bennett claimed the right to confer degrees in the name of the Christian College for a ten-year
                    period. He presumably based his claim on a stipulation that prohibited the Indiana legislature from
                    amending the college's charter for that length of time. In the summer of 1834 Isaac S.
                    Ashton, bishop of the Christian church in 
                        New Albany
                    , reported that Bennett was still "going about selling diplomas,"73 and despite his appointment at Willoughby University he continued to do so.
                    In October, 1834, he traveled to 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Boston
                    , ostensibly to raise money for Willoughby, but he sold numerous degrees from the
                    Christian College on his travels. Six months later, when Bennett was charged with peddling diplomas,
                    he claimed that he had "quit that, you know, long since."74
            
            Sectarian critics disparaged leaders of the Christian church because of their purported connections
                    with the Christian College.75 In return, representatives of the church assailed
                    Bennett. Ashton reported in the Millennial Harbinger that Bennett had
                    "done much harm" and warned "the public against him." Campbell
                    stated that he was "sorry to have heard from other quarters that the disciples 
                  
                     70 Hogan, "John Cook Bennett and Pickaway Lodge No.
                            23," 9–10.
                  
                     71
                            
                        Painesville, Ohio
                     , Telegraph, March 20, 1835.
                  
                     72 Bennett to John M. Henderson, May 12, 1835, Henderson Papers.
                  
                     73
                            Millennial Harbinger, V (August, 1834), 384; History of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities and their Counties, 11, 206.
                  
                     74
                     Evangelist, IV (March 2, 1835), 64–65;
                            Bennett to Henderson, May 12, 1835, Henderson Papers.
                  
                     75
                            Christian Messenger, VII (June, 1833), 190–91; Evangelist, III (September 1, 1834), 205–206.
               
                     have lost confidence in the professions of Dr. Bennet." He quoted 
                        St. Paul
                    : "From such, turn away."76 In March, 1835, Scott
                    stated that Bennett was a vagabond without character, "a false brother and an imposter, a
                    person of no solid learning and of very bad morals."77 Six months later
                    the Christian Palladium reported that the Christian church disclaimed
                    "all connection with Mr. Bennett." Leaders of the church also announced that
                    "as he has the names of some of our ministers," they wanted it perfectly
                    understood "that he can make no further use of them, by our consent, to assist him in the
                    prosecution of his villainies."78
            
            In 1845 Bennett was appointed a lecturer at the Literary and Botanical Medical Society in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Morrow had also relocated and established the Eclectic Medical Institute in the Queen
                        City.79 In addition, he was editing the Western Medical
                        Reformer. When Morrow learned of Bennett's appointment at the rival medical
                    school, he attacked Bennett, who responded by stating that he was not aware that he had ever
                    conferred more than "one that was UNDESERVED, and that one, which is YET UNPAID FOR!! was
                    on THOMAS VAUGH MORROW!!!"80 Bennett also restated his position with
                    regard to granting degrees based upon examination. He believed that the medical schools'
                    requirement for a specified term of study was based upon "purely mercenary
                    considerations." Bennett pointed out that other colleges had similar provisions. The
                    University of 
                        Virginia
                     permitted the granting of medical degrees without reference to the time spent studying
                    medicine provided that candidates passed appropriate examinations.81 In fact,
                    until after the Civil War many colleges granted various degrees based upon examination alone.82
            
            Dr. Alva Curtis, editor of the Botanico-Medical Recorder, defended Bennett and
                    attacked Morrow. Morrow's 
                        Ohio
                     Reformed Medical College had advertised that there was "no specified time to
                    complete a course of studies, but whenever a student is qualified to pass an examination he will
                    receive a diploma."83 Curtis reported that the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature had stripped Morrow of the power to confer degrees because Morrow had
                    abused it, and subsequently Morrow had been run out of 
                        Worthington
                    . Morrow responded by reporting that Curtis, who otherwise did not have an M.D., had
                    received one from Bennett. This Curtis denied. Curtis concluded 
                  
                     76
                            Millennial Harbinger, V (August, 1834), 384.
                  
                     77
                            Evangelist, IV (March 2, 1835), 64–65.
                  
                     78
                            Christian Palladium, IV (September 15, 1835), 148–49.
                  
                     79
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Union, October 30, 1845.
                  
                     80
                            Botanico-Medical Reformer, XIII (July 19, 1845), 307.
                  
                     81
                            Western Medical Reformer, V (June, 1845), 12–14; Botanico-Medical Recorder, XIII (July 19, 1845), 307–309; ibid., XIII (August 30, 1845), 339–40; Western Medical
                                Reformer Extra, V (September 8, 1845), 1–8.
                  
                     82 Waite, "The First Medical Diploma Mill in the 
                                United States
                            ," 502.
                  
                     83 Advertisement for the 
                                Ohio
                             Reformed Medical College, dated April 28, 1831, in Riddell's Journal,
                            VIII, 29.
               
                     that "Bennett may have erred, but Morrow is not the
                    proper man to cast the first stone at him."84
            
            Although subsequent historians have focused almost exclusively upon the medical degrees conferred by
                        Bennett,85 he also granted diplomas in numerous academic areas, including
                    law, divinity, and the arts and sciences. Bennett had few, if any, qualifications that justified his
                    examining anyone or conferring degrees in these areas. At the time, M.A.'s (or
                    A.M.'S) were mainly honorary degrees. A few colleges conferred them on alumni who had
                    sustained a good moral character, which sometimes meant little more than that they had stayed out of
                    jail since graduation. In 1835 there was no position in the 
                        United States
                     that required an M.A. degree.86
            
            During the early decades of the nineteenth century the field of medicine was in a state of ferment,
                    and the public was justifiably confused as to the competing claims of advocates of various medical
                    theories such as those proposed by the Thomsonians, homeopaths, eclectics, and others.87 A medical degree was the only certification that transcended this debate. Medical
                    schools were mainly controlled by "regular" physicians, who fought every attempt
                    by proponents of other medical beliefs to confer degrees. Bennett's vending of medical
                    degrees was therefore perceived as a serious threat to their control of the profession.
                    Bennett's educational reform might have had more support had he carried out what he had
                    argued for: awarding degrees based upon merit and demonstrated proficiency. However, he conferred
                    degrees upon individuals who did not take examinations or who otherwise did not merit them. While
                    contemporary colleges granted relatively few degrees by examination, Bennett conferred a massive
                    number of degrees in a very brief time. While most colleges granted degrees only at the place in
                    which instruction was conducted, Bennett handed them out from 
                        New Albany
                     to 
                        Boston
                    . In addition, Bennett commissioned others to confer degrees, a practice not known to
                    have occurred in other institutions. 
                  
                     84
                            Western Medical Reformer, V (June, 1845), 12–14; Botanico-Medical Recorder, XIII (July 19, 1845), 307–309: ibid. (August 30, 1845), 339–40; ibid. (September 13,
                            1845), 353–55; Western Medical Reformer Extra, V (September 8,
                            1845), 1–8.
                  
                     85
                            
                                Illinois State
                             Board of Health, Medical Education and the Regulation of the
                                Practice of Medicine in the 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    Canada
                                
                      ([
                        Springfield, Ill.
                     ], 1883), 64; Burton D. Myers,
                            "A Summary of the History of Medical Education in Indiana," Indiana History Bulletin, XIX (March, 1942), 111–13; Adolph E. Waller,
                            "The Vaulting Imagination of John L. Riddell," 
                        
                                    Ohio State
                                 Archaeological and Historical Quarterly, LIV (October-December, 1945),
                            346: Waller, "A Fictitious Medical Degree of the 1830's," Bulletin of the History of Medicine, XX (November, 1946),
                            505–12; Waite, "The First Medical Diploma Mill in the 
                                United States
                            ," 497–504; Charles Cumbs and Edgar Kiser, One
                                Hundred Years of Indiana Medicine, 1849–1949 ([
                                Indianapolis
                            ], 1949), 59–60; Burton D. Myers, The History of Medical
                                Education in Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., [1956]), 14–16.
                  
                     86 Rudolph, Curriculum, 80–81.
                  
                     87 Alva Curtis, ed., Discussions between Several Members
                                of the Regular Medical Faculty and Thomsonian Botanic Physicians
                                    (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1836); Madge Pickard and R. Carlyle Buley, The Midwest Pioneer: His 
                                    Ills
                                , Cures & Doctors (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Ind., 1945): 
                                Norman
                             Gevitz, ed., Other Healers (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1988).
               
                     While the bylaws of the Christian College granted the power to
                    confer degrees to the chancellor, the right to conduct examinations was solely vested in quarterly
                    meetings of the faculty and members of the corporation. Bennett's legalistic claim that he
                    was empowered to examine applicants was false.
            Bennett might merit some sympathy had he handed over the funds generated by his vending of degrees to
                    the Christian College, but he apparently appropriated the monies for his own personal use. He never
                    accounted for the expenditures generated by his selling of degrees, but during this time he was seen
                    gambling by two separate sources and was accused of speculating in real estate in 
                        Michigan
                    .88 Whatever Bennett did with the money, he was not a financial
                    success. By the summer of 1835 he was in desperate need of funds.89 As no
                    previous example of degree selling for an individual's personal profit has been uncovered,
                    the Christian College may well have been the first publicly chartered diploma mill in the 
                        United States
                    .
            
                    Epilogue
                
            It is unlikely that the trustees of the Christian College ever assembled after their meeting in
                    April, 1833. There is also no indication that Bennett ever returned to 
                        New Albany
                     after he departed in the summer of that year. Although he subsequently traveled on the
                        Ohio River, he usually stopped in 
                        Louisville
                    . No college courses were ever offered at the Christian College, and no property or
                    facilities were ever acquired. In spite of the actions of the 
                        New York County
                     Medical Society, the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature, and Riddell's letter of disclaimer to the 
                        New York
                    
                    Courier and Enquirer, neither the Indiana governor nor the state legislature
                    examined Bennett's activities. The charter of the Christian College was not repealed.
            Despite this debacle with the Christian College in 
                        New Albany
                    , the Christian church founded several institutions of higher learning, beginning with
                    Bacon College in 1836 in 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               . Scott was selected as the first
                    president, and David Burnett, who had been appointed a vice-president at the Christian College, was
                    Bacon College's second president.90 Alexander Campbell launched Bethany
                    College shortly thereafter.
            Hardin Moore, the representative who originally presented Bennett's petition for the
                    Christian College to the Indiana legislature, 
                  
                     88
                            Millennial Harbinger, V (August, 1834), 384; Minutes of the Pickaway
                            Lodge, as noted in Hogan, "John Cook Bennett and Pickaway Lodge No. 23";
                                Affidavits and Certificates Disproving the Statements and Affidavits
                                Contained in John C. Bennett's Letters, 
                        Nauvoo, Illinois
                     ,
                            August, 1842, broadside (reprint by Joseph Smith, Jr.'s Rare Reprints,
                            Independence, 
                                Missouri
                            , 1990).
                  
                     89 Bennett to Henderson, July 18, 1835, Henderson Papers.
                  
                     90 Winfred Garrison, An American Religious Movement: A
                                Brief History of the Disciples of Christ (
                                St. Louis
                            , [1945]), 106; Garrison and DeGroot, The Disciples of Christ,
                            223–24.
               
                     left 
                        New Albany
                     in 1833 and moved to 
                        New Orleans
                    . In the same year Jesse Bledsoe, one of the initial corporators and secretary of the
                    trustees, left 
                        Kentucky
                     and moved to 
                        Mississippi
                    . He died in 
                        Texas
                     four years later. Whether these moves were related to their relationships with the
                    Christian College is unknown.91
            
            Chauncey Perkins, who was elected the secretary and was a member of the faculty of the Medical School
                    of Indiana, continued to operate his drugstore in 
                  Erie, Pennsylvania
               . In the fall
                    of 1835 he joined Bennett in an unsuccessful attempt to launch the Sylvanian Medical College. He
                    retired in 1855 and moved to 
                  Walnut Creek, New York
               , where he died in 1872.92
            
            Riddell left 
                        Worthington
                     in the spring of 1834, probably in part as a result of problems related to his
                    connection with Bennett and the Christian College. Two years later he received his M.D. from the 
                        Ohio
                     Medical College in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Shortly thereafter he moved to 
                        New Orleans
                     and began teaching at the Medical College of 
                        Louisiana
                    , which later became Tulane University. He was a respected professor and civic leader.
                    He later became the director of the federal mint in 
                        New Orleans
                    , a position he retained during the Civil War. He received an award from President
                    Andrew Johnson for his efforts during Reconstruction and died in 1867.93
            
            Bennett continued to engage in a variety of nefarious schemes and activities. Despite criticism for
                    conferring degrees based upon examination, he incorporated this provision into bylaws of other
                    medical colleges with which he was affiliated, including Willoughby University and Sylvanian Medical
                    College in 
                  Erie, Pennsylvania
               .94 In addition to his involvement
                    with medical schools, Bennett launched a campaign on behalf of the medical virtues of tomatoes in
                        1835.95 In 1840 he moved to 
                  Nauvoo, Illinois
               , and joined
                    the Mormon church, becoming a close confidant of Joseph Smith. Bennett lobbied through the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature an act for the incorporation of Nauvoo University. As president, he
                    conferred LL.D.'s upon selected prominent Americans such as James G. Bennett, editor of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald. John Cook Bennett was expelled from the Mormon church twenty-one months
                    later and promptly attacked both Smith and the church.96 Four years later he
                    repeated the percers 
                  
                     91
                            History of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities and their Counties, 11, 213; Ware, Barton
                                Warren Stone, 196.
                  
                     92 College of Physicians and Surgeons in the City of 
                                New York
                            , Catalogue of the Alumni, Officers, and Fellows,
                                1807–1891 (
                                New York
                            , 1891), 50.
                  
                     93 Waller, "The Vaulting Imagination of John L.
                            Riddell," 346; "The Late Dr. J. L. Riddell," The
                                Southern Star, October 8, 1866, copy in the John Riddell Archives (Manuscripts,
                            Rare Books, and University Archives, Tulane University).
                  
                     94
                            
                                Erie
                            
                            Gazette Extra, September 25, 1835, quoted in the 
                                Albany
                            
                            Evening Journal, October 10, 1835; Botanico-Medical
                            Recorder, XIII (August 30, 1845), 339–40.
                  
                     95 Andrew F. Smith, "Dr. John Cook Bennett's Tomato
                            Campaign," The Old Northwest, XVI (Spring, 1992),
                            61–75.
                  
                     96 John C. Bennett, The History of the Saints; or An
                                Expose of Joe Smith and Mormonism (
                                Boston
                            , 1842); 
                        Nauvoo, Ill.
                     , Times and
                            Seasons, April 30, 1842.
               
                     formance with Jesse Strang, the leader of the Strangite Mormon
                    Church at 
                  Voree, Wisconsin
               . Bennett was expelled and in the late 1840s returned to 
                        Massachusetts
                     where he began raising poultry. In 1849 he sponsored a poultry convention in 
                        Boston
                    . The meeting drew over ten thousand attendees, and it, along with his subsequent book
                    on poultry, contributed t o "hen fever," which swept the nation in the early
                        1850.97 In 1854 Bennett moved to 
                        Iowa
                     where he died in 1867.98
            
            
               
                  97 John C. Bennett, The Poultry Book. A Treatise on Breeding
                            and General Mangement of Domestic Fowls (
                            Boston
                        , 1850); George P. Burnham, The History of the Hen
                            Fever (2nd ed., 
                            Boston
                        , 1855).
               
                  98 James J. Tyler, "John Cook Bennett, Colorful Freemason of the
                        Early Nineteenth Century," (reprinted from the Proceedings of the Grand
                            Lodge of 
                                Ohio
                            
                  ; 
                            Columbus
                        , 1947), 3-6; Mervin B. Hogan, John Cook Bennett: Unprincipled,
                            Profligate, Cowan (
                            Salt Lake City
                        , 1987); 0. W. Riegel, Crown of Glory: The Life of James J. Strang,
                            Moses of the Mormons (
                     New Haven,
                                Conn.
                  , 1935), 72; Thomas Ford, A History oflllinois, ed. Milo M. Quaife (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1946),11, 61-69. See also Garrison, An American Religious
                        Movement, 83-87; Dwight Stevenson, Walter Scott, Voice of the Golden Oracle: A
                            Biography (
                            St. Louis
                        , [1946]), 164; Garrison and DeGroot, The Disciples of Christ,
                        223-24; Charles Bonsett, "An Old River Town and Two of its Unusual
                        Physicians," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, I (October, 1974),
                        36-41; Bonsett, "Medical Museum Notes," Journal of the Indiana
                            State Medical Association, LXXI (April, 1978), 359; Charles P. Bennett, Yankee Clippers, Golden Slippers and More: A Bennett Family History and Genealogy
                                (
                     Mount Ayr, Iowa
                  , 1986), 33.
            
         
         
         
            Grey Eagle: Major General Robert Huston Milroy and the Civil War
            Cary C. Collins*
            
            
                    Halleck would not hear me about the matter for fear he would … be suspicioned of
                        having acted in the suggestion of a Volunteer. In the hands of such selfish, biggoted.
                        supercellious. incompetent West Pointers, the destiny of our Great Country has been mistakenly
                        placed and the lives of a million volunteers staked and 200,000 use-lessly sacrificed. I have no
                        faith … [thatj the war will end in five years if the direction of our armies is left
                        with Halleck and McClellan but if put in the hands of good volunteer officers it will be ended
                        in 90 days … I consider West Point next to slavery the great bane of our
                        country.'
                
            Standing six-feet-three-inches tall, Robert H. Milroy of Indiana had "‘piercing
                    black eyes’, an aquiline nose, and long silver hair." Because of his conspicuous
                    features, men serving in his Civil War command affectionately and appropriately dubbed him
                    "Grey Eagle."' Although Milroy's military career was a checkered
                    one, his patriotism and courage were never questioned. He fought not simply for the love of fighting
                    but for the justness of the cause: the protection of "his country, the integrity of the
                    Republic, the freedom of the slave." As a general "he lived on a footing of very
                    democratic comradeship with his men," and he was literally worshipped by many of them. A
                    military colleague, General Carl Schurz, recalled that when confronting the enemy Milroy would
                    "gallop up and down his front, fiercely shaking his fist at the ‘rebel
                    scoundrels over there,’ and calling them all sorts of outrageous names," all the
                    while admonishing, "Pitch in, boys; pitch in."3 Milroy had
                    three horses shot from under him and received four swords from his officers 
                  
                     * Cary C. Collins is a student a t Central 
                                Washington
                             University, Ellensburg, LVashington. He expresses his thanks to Tina S.
                            Collins, Mary K. Martin, Janet McCann, Kenneth Munsell, and Dr. Kent D. Richards for their
                            assistance in the preparation of this article.
                  
                     1 Robert H. SZilroy t o Mary Jane hlilroy, October 19, 1862, in
                            "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy." Volume I, "Milroy
                            Family Letters, 1862-1863," 1965, comp. Margaret B. Paulus, bound typescript, p,
                            131. A copy of this work is located in the 
                                Jasper County
                             Public Library, 
                                Rensselaer
                            , Indiana; the Indiana University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            : and the Library of Congress. Washington, D. C.
                  
                     2 Carl M. Becker, " ‘Tardy George’ and
                            ‘Extra Billy’: Nicknames in the Civil War." Civil War History, XXXV (December, 1989), 303.
                  
                     3 Carl Schurz. The Reminiscences of Curl Schurz (3
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1907-1908), 11. 337-88.
               
                    
                    
                  GENERAL ROBERT HUSTON
                                MILROY C. 1875
                  Western Reserve Historical Society, 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     
                  
               
                     and men for meritorious service, one valued at one thousand
                        dollars.4 "I doubt," conjectured one Federal trooper,
                    "that in the whole history of the war, there was another instance where a regiment came
                    nearer idolizing their commander." He "never asked his men to go where he did not
                    lead, and he was brave almost to rashness."5 Another soldier described
                    him to family members at home: "Imagine a large grey headed man with brown whiskers seated
                    on an iron grey horse of the corresponding proportions and speaking in a low, sharp, quick voice and
                    you have Milroy, one of the most impetuous, go ahead, fearless men in the whole army."6
            
            Such respect and adulation would be glory enough for most men, but not for Milroy. He failed to
                    achieve the military recognition that he sought for a good part of his life and for this failure
                    blamed a military structure that he believed unjustly favored West Point graduates serving in the
                    regular army over all other officers regardless of ability. Milroy's charge may not have
                    been without foundation. West Point graduates were almost twice as likely to achieve the rank of
                    major general in the Union Army than those not from West Point. Denied a 
                        United States
                     Military Academy education, Milroy attributed many rebukes of his tactics and behavior
                    solely to a lack of credentials from that institution.7
            
            Milroy's paranoia regarding West Point and the regular army became clear in June, 1863,
                    following the calamitous Second Battle of 
                        Winchester
                    . Removed from command and placed under arrest, Milroy remained oblivious to the
                    defeat's importance and his own deficiencies as a general, preferring to accuse a superior
                    with trying to destroy him. Milroy's Civil War experience exemplifies an instance in which
                    inflated ego, combined with overt suspicion of authority, nearly ruined a military career.
            Robert Huston Milroy was born into a military family on June 11, 1816, near 
                        Salem
                     in 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana. His father, Major General Samuel Milroy, served in the Indiana militia in
                    both the War of 1812 and Indian wars in Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    . His mother, Martha Huston Milroy, was General Sam Houston's second cousin. In
                    1826 the Milroys relocated to 
                        Delphi
                    , Indiana, where 
                  
                     4 "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," Volume
                            IV, "Supplementary Material," 1965, comp. Margaret B. Paulus, bound
                            typescript, pp. 25–26.
                  
                     5 Frank S. Reader to Robert B. Milroy, April 10, 1890, mss 2520,
                            folder 1, box 1, Robert Huston Milroy Papers (
                                Oregon
                             Historical Society, 
                        Portland,
                                    Oregon
                     ).
                  
                     6 Carl M. Becker and Ritchie Thomas, eds., Hearth and
                                Knapsack: the Ladley Letters, 1857–1880 (
                        Athens, Ohio
                     , 1988), 31.
                  
                     7 Of the 212 Union generals with West Point credentials, 66 were major
                            generals and 145 were brigadier generals. Ulysses S. Grant held lieutenant general status.
                            There were 156 non-West Point Union generals, 29 major generals, and 127 brigadiers.
                            Thirty-one percent of the West Point generals in the Union Army held the rank of major
                            general compared to 19 percent for non-West Point graduates. (This statistic may in part be
                            explained by the fact that few non—West Pointers achieved Milroy's level
                            of military training or that of their West Point counterparts.) See James Spencer, comp.,
                                Civil War Generals: Categorical Listings and a Biographical Directory (
                                New York
                            , 1986), 107–20.
               
                     Samuel took up farming. Robert received a common school
                    education in the log schoolhouses of 
                        Delphi
                     and years later continued his studies in college.8
            
            The issue of educational opportunity was an important factor in deciding the course of
                    Milroy's life. From a tender age he had dreamed of attending the 
                        United States
                     Military Academy at West Point. As Milroy put it, "I have from the earliest
                    boyhood been ambitious and intensely desirous of military fame and renown as a general
                    &." Indeed, his ambition in this regard, he said, was as "insatiable as
                    that of Alexander or Napoleon." Milroy's father, however, had a strong aversion to
                    higher education and apparently to West Point in particular. Labeling its graduates
                    "college trash," Samuel adamantly refused to pay for his son to go away to school
                    even after Robert offered to relinquish all rights to his father's estate in return for
                        assistance.9 Milroy recalled, "I importuned my father for years,
                    before I was too old to procure me a position as a Cadet at West Point as I observed that that was
                    the only avenue to honorable position in our army. But he blindly, flatly refused." Of
                    Samuel Milroy's stance Robert asserted, "The old gentleman was so much of a
                    Democrat in theory and practice that he had unconquerable prejudices."10 In this era of Jacksonian Democracy, politicians and voters alike frequently debated the
                    need for a professional army. Samuel was a self-made man and volunteer soldier; perhaps he held a
                    reverse prejudice against the regular army. Nevertheless, it is ironic that what proved so
                    successful for Samuel would result in just the opposite outcome in his son's life.
                    Robert's lack of West Point training caused him to feel persecuted throughout his military
                        career.11
            
            Samuel Milroy did furnish a large family library, confident that his son "would take
                    advantage of it if he had the elements and determination of greatness in him." Robert
                    immersed himself in the library but never lost his hunger for a military education. Finally, at age
                    twenty-four and with a relative's assistance, he acquired sufficient resources to leave the
                    farm. In 1840 he visited an uncle in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     who agreed to furnish tuition. Then, without informing his parents, Milroy continued on
                    to 
                  Northfield, Vermont
               , and enrolled at Norwich Military Academy, putatively among
                    the country's finest military schools next to West Point. Milroy excelled at 
                  
                     8 Colonel William Farrand Prosser, A History of the Puget
                                Sound Country (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1903), 11, 74–77.
                  
                     9 Untitled biographical information, mss 2520, folder 1, box 1, Milroy
                            Papers; Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, January 1, 1865, in Paulus, "Papers of
                            General Robert Huston Milroy," I, 488; "Sketch of the Military Career of
                            Robert Huston Milroy, up to the Battle of Alleghany Summit Dec 3 1861 Written by General
                            Milroy for Publication October 1863," in Paulus, "Papers of General Robert
                            Huston Milroy," IV, 42.
                  
                     10 "Sketch of the Military Career of Robert Huston
                            Milroy," in Paulus, "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," IV,
                            42.
                  
                     11 See note 9 above.
               
                     Norwich. With a tall, muscular build, he was considered
                    "one of the most powerful men" ever to attend the academy, was named class
                    valedictorian for 1843, and graduated with master of arts degrees in law, civil engineering, and
                    military science.12
            
            Milroy left Norwich thinking he was ready to embark upon a glorious military career; however, the
                    significance of his non—West Point background was soon apparent. After graduation he
                    applied for an army commission but was denied appointment. While the likely cause of the rejection
                    was the fact that the country was not at war, in Milroy's mind it was because he had not
                    "passed through the royal door of West Point." Milroy resolved that "army
                    favors and honors were considered the exclusive right of West Pointers, which discovery made me the
                    enemy of that Institution &."13 Unable to obtain an assignment,
                    Milroy maintained a peripatetic existence for the next year, traveling around 
                        New England
                     boxing, fencing, and teaching. He returned to Indiana in 1844 to study law, though
                    admittedly without enthusiasm.14
            
            The desire to live an adventuresome life burned inside Milroy. He soon abandoned his law studies and
                    went to 
                        Texas
                    . In 1845 he took the 
                        Texas
                     oath of allegiance, which conferred on him the citizenship of that young republic. He
                    intended to spend the balance of his life there, but the deaths of Samuel Milroy and an older
                    brother required that he come back to 
                        Delphi
                     to settle the estate and lend assistance to his aging mother, who persuaded him to
                    remain in Indiana. Events soon required, however, that he again journey south.15
            
            In April, 1846, the 
                        United States
                     went to war with Mexico. Robert, along with a younger brother, Samuel, immediately
                    volunteered; and Indiana on June 20, 1846, commissioned the older Milroy as captain of the 
                        Wabash
                     Invincibles, Company C, First Indiana Volunteers. The advent of war afforded the break
                    for which Milroy had been waiting. Writing to his wife years later, he acknowledged, "I
                    felt an irresistible desire for war and I felt sure that if ever opportunity offered I would excel
                    in the profession of arms—you know how I jumped into the Mexican War &."
                    At Camp Clark, between 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        New Albany
                     in southern Indiana, three Indiana regiments, including the First, were
                    "assembled, organized, equipped, and mustered into the national service
                        &."16
            
            
               
                  12 Untitled biographical information, mss 2520, folder 1, box 1, Milroy
                        Papers; "Sketch of the Military Career of Robert Huston Milroy," in Paulus,
                        "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," IV, 42; William Arba Ellis, ed., Norwich University, 1819–1911: Her History, Her Graduates, Her Roll of
                            Honor (2 vols., 
                     Montpelier, Vt.
                  , 1911), II, 360–61.
               
                  13 Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, January 1, 1865, in Paulus,
                        "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," I, 488.
               
                  14 Prosser, History of Puget Sound Country, II,
                        74–77.
               
                  15
                        Ibid., see also Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, January 1, 1865, in
                        Paulus, "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," I, 488.
               
                  16 Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, January 1, 1865, in Paulus,
                        "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," I, 488; Lewis Wallace, Lew Wallace: An. Autobiography (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1906), I, 115–17; Oran Perry, comp., Indiana in the
                            Mexican War (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1908), 347.
            
            
            Second Lieutenant Lew Wallace, later a Civil War general and author of Ben-Hur,
                    served with Milroy and the First Indiana. A lifelong friend, Wallace held Milroy in great regard and
                    characterized his fellow Hoosier as "eager, impetuous, fierce in anger & a genuine
                    colonel of cavalry." Milroy, Wallace averred, represented one of only a handful of men he
                    had met in his lifetime who truly loved combat: "In fence with sabres his wrist was like
                    flexible steel," and he possessed "a reach to make another swordsman, though ever
                    so skillful, chary of engaging him."17
            
            After mobilizing, the Indianans sailed from 
                        New Albany
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                    . There they boarded ships for the Brazos River and service under
                    General Zachary Taylor. Much to their chagrin, the brothers Milroy, Wallace, and the First Indiana
                    participated in little combat in the next twelve months. Milroy's company divided the
                    majority of its time between a camp at the mouth of the Rio Grande and the Mexican towns of
                    Matamoras and Monterey. Most days proved monotonous and boring. Milroy and the sixty-one soldiers
                    under his command complained frequently about the vacuous nature of the experience. Milroy described
                    Mexico as a "miserable cheerless place" and grumbled that his men were getting
                    homesick & dying from inactivity."18 He also displayed what was
                    to become a lifelong trait: a dislike for and suspicion of his superiors. To his brother James in
                    Indiana Milroy wrote that his company would probably remain at its location on the Rio Grande since
                    "our old Jackass of a Colonel gets at a rate of $936.00 more per annum for
                    guarding a separate post than if he was with the brigade under the Brig. Genl."19
            
            Milroy did not show deference even to officers of the highest rank. The First Indiana's
                    transfer to Monterey in the spring of 1847 let the Hoosier get to know General Taylor, one of many
                    prominent people he would meet in his lifetime. "I see & [Taylor] every day and
                    have got well acquainted with him &." he penned in a letter to his sister in May,
                    1847; but despite the close association the young captain exhibited little admiration for the future
                    president, portraying him as "a low chunky very common looking old man" who did
                    not have "superior talents by any means &."20
            
            Although Milroy's Mexican sojourn was mostly uneventful, one incident stood out. In late
                    1846 General Taylor placed four companies of the First Indiana in Milroy's charge with
                    orders to take them, first overland and then via the Rio Grande River, from
                    Monterey to Matamoras. With only four days' supplies for a journey that required ten, it
                    became necessary for Milroy to dispatch small foraging 
                  
                     17 Wallace, An Autobiography, I, 117.
                  
                     18 Robert H. Milroy to James Milroy, [October 19, 1846], in
                            "Mexican War Letters," Indiana Magazine of History, XXV
                            (June, 1929), 169.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid.
                  
                     20 Robert H. Milroy to Mrs. A. A. Grimes, May 9, 1847, in ibid., 173.
               
                     parties to search for food. A band of guerrillas under General
                    Jesus Maria Carvajal ambushed one five-man detachment; only two soldiers returned to the main
                    company alive.21
            
            The deaths of three comrades aroused Milroy. Aboard the Enterprise on the Rio
                    Grande when he received the news, Milroy, according to Wallace, immediately "buckled on his
                    sword, jumped ashore, and called for volunteers &." He boldly promised that he
                    would be first to recover the dead Hoosiers' bodies and that his capture of General
                    Carvajal would result in a burning of the nearby town with the "natives & [being]
                    treated to a hanging in imitation of Haman's." So persuasive was Milroy's
                    cry for revenge that not a soldier failed to respond; even the boatmen begged for guns.22
            
            Milroy and his men soon discovered the Americans' "horribly mutilated"
                    cadavers. The brutality of the deaths only inflamed their desires to find and punish the Mexicans.
                    After some searching they located Carvajal in a small village atop a bluff. Milroy showed no
                    hesitation. He plotted a daring and courageous assault—similar to ones he would devise
                    during the Civil War—that required an advance across an open meadow, the ascent of a
                    hill, and the storming of the barricade protecting the town. Yelling, the Hoosiers rushed across the
                    prairie in double file to the base of the bluff. "Heavens! What furnace heat there was in
                    that go!" Wallace later wrote. Disappointingly for Milroy, as the troops scrambled up the
                    hill, the Mexicans exited in the opposite direction. A short firefight with the few who offered
                    resistance resulted in the killing of one of Carvajal's men and the wounding of four
                    others. Rather than torching the town as promised, Captain Milroy ordered that the injured be
                        attended.23
            
            The attack represented the apogee of Milroy's military career in 
                        Mexico
                    . He raised a cavalry company near the end of his term of enlistment in the hope that he
                    could take part in a significant battle before going home. The companies' services he
                    offered to General Taylor, the governor of 
                        Texas
                    , and the secretary of war. All turned him down. Discharged on June 16, 1847, Milroy
                    left Mexico disheartened, summarizing his experience with the lament: "I unfortunately got
                    into a Regiment& that was cursed by an incompetent Colonel" and this combined with
                    "the shortness of the war prevented me from acquiring any reputation."24
            
            Back in Indiana, Milroy settled on law as a career. He enrolled in the Indiana University Law School
                    and took his LL.B. degree in 1850. The eleven years that followed saw him primarily occupied with
                    law and politics. In 1851 he served as a member of the convention 
                  
                     21 Wallace, An Autobiography, I, 145–47.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid.
                  
                     24 Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, January 1, 1865, in Paulus,
                            "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," I, 488; "Sketch of the
                            Military Career of Robert Huston Milroy," in ibid., IV,
                        43.
               
                    
                    
                  ROBERT HUSTON MILROY,
                                MARY JANE ARMITAGE MILROY, AND MEMBERS OF THEIR FAMILY
                  
                  
                     
                                Jasper County
                             Public Library, 
                                Rensselaer
                            , Indiana. Photograph by DoubleTake Photography, Monticello, Indiana.
                that adopted a new Indiana state constitution. Also that year the governor commissioned
                    him judge for the Eighth Judicial District. He lived in 
                        Delphi
                     until May, 1854, then transferred his law practice to 
                        Rensselaer
                    , Indiana. He started a family as well, on May 17, 1849, marrying Mary Jane Armitage, an
                            
                  Alexander, Pennsylvania
               , native. In the next seventeen years she bore him seven
                        children.25
            
            A staunch Republican after the formation of the party in 1856, Milroy kept abreast of national
                    political issues, became a fervent abolitionist, and backed Lincoln's candidacy for
                    president. So ardent were Milroy's convictions on African-American rights that a regimental
                    commander at the Second Battle of 
                        Winchester
                     later said, "The colored people of America should erect a monument to his
                    memory. He was their friend when to be so drew upon him much adverse criticism."26
            
            Milroy correctly foresaw the coming of war. On February 7, 1861, he issued one of the earliest calls
                    for volunteer troops in the 
                        United States
                    , keeping the muster roll in his law office. In April, 
                  
                     25 Prosser, History of the Puget Sound Country, 11,
                            74–77; see also "Sketch of the Military Career of Robert Huston
                            Milroy," in Paulus, "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," IV,
                            43; family Bible record of Robert Huston Milroy, in ibid., 1–2.
                  
                     26 Regimental Commander Joseph Warren Keifer quoted in Charles S.
                            Grunder and Brandon H. Beck, The Second Battle of 
                                    Winchester
                                , June 12–15, 1863 (
                        Lynch-burg, Va.
                     ,
                            1989), 9.
               
                     when the Confederacy fired upon Fort Sumter, only two men had
                    pledged their names; therefore, in the morning darkness on that fateful day Milroy went to the 
                        Jasper County
                     Courthouse to raise recruits. He alerted the citizens of 
                        Rensselaer
                     by ringing the bell in the bell tower, and with the playing of a fife and drum he
                    assembled his entire company of the Iroquois Guards before breakfast, thereby laying the groundwork
                    for a regiment that became known as the "Bloody Ninth"—the Ninth
                    Indiana Volunteer Infantry. On April 23, 1861, Milroy was commissioned captain, Company G, Ninth
                    Indiana Volunteers. Four days later he was unanimously elected colonel.27
            
            Colonel Milroy spent the first months of the war under General George B. McClellan's command
                    in the counties that would, in 1863, become 
                        West Virginia
                    . His forces protected that soon-to-be state from southern incursion. From June to
                    September, 1861, Milroy participated in Union victories at Grafton, Philippi, Carrick's
                    Ford, and Laurel Hill. He began the latter engagement in violation of orders but
                    "completely routed the enemy. The positive results of these conflicts won McClellan acclaim
                    and led ultimately to Lincoln's giving him command of the Army of the Potomac. Milroy
                    shared in the praise. On September 3, 1861, he was promoted to brigadier general. With a force
                    nearly six thousand strong, Milroy assumed charge of the Cheat Mountain
                    District in northern 
                        Virginia
                    , part of the Mountain Department commanded by the "Pathfinder of the
                    West," Major General John C. Fremont.28
            
            Perhaps the most crucial events for Milroy in 1862 were the battles of McDowell and Second Bull Run.
                    Though neither engagement produced a Union victory, each exemplified Milroy's style of
                    generalship and philosophy of warfare. What is most important, he survived these defeats with his
                    reputation intact, seemingly ready to ascend the ladder of Union military leadership; however, the
                    battles made clear as well Milroy's attitude toward the regular army, West Point, and the
                    generals of each.
            The Battle of McDowell on May 8, 1862, was one of many confrontations during Confederate General
                    Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson's Shenandoah Valley
                    campaign. Jackson had to create a strategic diversion to prevent the armies of Generals Fremont and
                    Nathanial Banks from uniting with McClellan in his planned assault on 
                        Richmond
                    . At McDowell, Jackson undertook "one of the muddiest, most difficult marches
                    of the entire war" to position his 
                  
                     27 Untitled biographical information, mss 2520, folder 1, box 1,
                            Milroy Papers; [William H. H. Terrelll, Report of the Adjutant General of the
                                State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1866–1869), 11, 17–21; see also "Sketch of the
                            Military Career of Robert Huston Milroy," in Paulus, "Papers of General
                            Robert Huston Milroy," IV, 43–44.
                  
                     28 See note 27 above; Mark M. Boatner III, The Civil War
                                Dictionary (
                                New York
                            , 1988), 552.
               
                     troops to attack Milroy.29 As
                    Jackson's thirteen thousand men prepared to engage his troops, Milroy, although outnumbered
                    three to one, boldly avowed that he "would not yield a foot to treason, and so we must
                    fight." And they did fight. Believing he could not wait for reinforcements from sixty miles
                    distant, Milroy formulated a plan to "deliver a blow [at Jackson], if& [he] could,
                    and then retire from his [Jackson's] front before he had recovered from the surprise
                        &."30
            
            Milroy's offensive called for crossing rugged terrain and confronting well-fortified
                    Confederates entrenched on a bluff called Sitlington's Hill. The strategy ensured a
                    "bitter and bloody" encounter. Milroy's forces charged against a
                    "devastating shower of lead." Despite initially gaining headway, by nightfall,
                    weary and short of ammunition, the Union general had to recall his two brigades and fall back to
                            
                  Franklin, Virginia
               . In four hours of desperate fighting—at times
                    hand-to-hand—Milroy sustained 259 casualties to Jackson's 498. Although
                    ultimately repulsed by "Old Jack," Milroy believed that he had successfully
                    accomplished his goals of engaging the Confederates, penetrating their defenses, and relocating to
                    safer ground. If anything, he chastised 
                        Fremont
                     for placing too many strictures upon him. Declaring in a letter to his wife that the
                    old Pathfinder was "‘played out’ and down forever," Milroy
                    gave a caustic appraisal of his superior: "The world has been greatly deceived in that man.
                    He is intellectually a poor thing & As a General & a perfect failure."31
            
            Milroy spent the summer of 1862 under Generals Fremont and Franz Sigel. From August 9–28,
                    in command of the Independent Brigade, First Corps of the Army of 
                        Virginia
                    , Milroy fought at Cedar Mountain, Freeman's Ford, Sulphur
                    Springs, and Waterloo Bridge—skirmishes preceding Second Bull Run. During the latter, on
                    August 29–30, Milroy's men stood at the front of the Union line, embroiled in
                    fierce, ferocious fighting. At one point a musket ball killed Milroy's horse as the general
                    cheered on his troops. The engagement's climax for Milroy occurred on the evening of August
                    30 when he questioned the leadership and tactics of his superior, General Irvin McDowell.32
            
            In the thick of battle, Milroy believed he was not receiving adequate reinforcements for his battered
                    and beleaguered troops. The general hurried back to McDowell's headquarters and demanded
                    that the Union commander send a brigade forward "at once to save the day or all would be
                    lost." Desperate circumstances aside, McDowell and other officers characterized
                    Milroy's behavior as 
                  
                     29 Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 531–32,
                            quotation 532; Richard L. Armstrong, Jackson's Valley Campaign: The
                                Battle of McDowell (
                        Lynchburg,
                                    Va.
                     , 1990), 58.
                  
                     30 Milroy's comments quoted in Armstrong, Jackson's Valley Campaign, 47, 58.
                  
                     31 Armstrong, Jackson's Valley Campaign,
                            58–66; Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, July 4, 1862, in Paulus,
                            "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," I, 54.
                  
                     32 Untitled biographical information, mss 2520, folder 1, box 1,
                            Milroy Papers; Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, 11,
                            17–21.
               
                    
                    
                  Map by Graphic Arts Department, Audio-visual Center, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     unusual. General Robert Buchanan described him as
                    "riding about in an obviously agitated state bellowing such improbable epithets as
                    ‘Hell and chickens’ and other strange oaths." Ordered to leave after
                    several minutes, Buchanan said that the Hoosier general was still "haranguing and
                    gesticulating most emphatically & rushing about the field without any special aim or
                    object." Another officer alleged that Milroy, hat off and sword drawn, confronted McDowell
                    with the invective, "For God's sake, general, send a few regiments into these
                    woods; my poor men are being cut to pieces."33
            
            Milroy saw nothing peculiar about his demeanor. Military etiquette, he explained, meant little to
                    him, just results: "After my own Bgd was used up and out of ammunition I dashed back and
                    brought up others—one after another and pitched them in the fight. I asked no questions
                    who they were or who commanded them."34 McDowell finally reinforced
                    Milroy who, whatever his previous mental state, seized the opportunity, "dashed in front of
                    them, waved & [his] sword, and cheered them forward." As evening hung over the
                    battlefield, Milroy felt certain that victory was in sight. In his vernacular, a brigade under
                    General Ambrose E. Burnside had that night "dashed back the tide of armed treason, and sent
                    such a tempest of shot, shell, and leaden death into the dark forest after the rebels that they did
                    not again renew the attack."35
            
            The general was mistaken. The Union Army had not won at Second Bull Run. Unknown to Milroy, General
                    John Pope had ordered an overall withdrawal back to Centreville to protect 
                        Washington
                    . Denouncing that decision, Milroy said he first learned of it with "agonizing
                    surprise." "I was thunderstruck upon finding no troops in my rear for nearly a
                    mile and when I overtook Gen Sigel I was struck dumb with horror when told by him that he was
                    retreating by order of Gen. Pope &." Pouring out his anger, Milroy blamed the
                    defeat on what he judged to be a West Point aristocracy that undeservedly dominated most positions
                    of importance in the northern military establishment: 
                        Oh! How horrible I have felt for my poor bleeding lost country—our noble Govt. I
                            feel like I am attending her funeral—and all this has been brought about by West Pointers—Soulless, brainless—Selfish Villians
                            who having made their Profession—Care nothing for the country,
                            so they can be hoisted into high places. Had an advance of all our vast reserve forces been
                            ordered up we could have pushed on the next day and cut the rebles to pieces and captured
                            them. The retreat was dictated by cowardice, 
                        
                           33 Records of the McDowell Court of Inquiry, February 3, 1863,
                                    in U. S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the
                                        Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols.,
                                    Washington, D. C., 1880–1901), ser. 1, vol. XII, part 1, pp.
                                    268–73, 318–25, quotations 268, 273, 321. This work is
                                    hereafter cited as Official Records. See also Timothy J. Reese,
                                        Sykes' Regular Infantry Division, 1861–1864: A
                                        History of Regular 
                                            United States
                                         Infantry Operations in the Civil War's Eastern
                                    Theater (
                              Jefferson, N. C.
                           , 1990), 122.
                        
                           34 Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, September, [1862], in
                                    Paulus, "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," I, 122.
                        
                           35
                                    Official Records, ser. 1, vol. XII, part 1, p. 273.
                     
                             treason and incompetence. We had plenty of troops to
                            whip them but McDowell is a traitor and Pope is an incompetent egotist vain braggadocio and
                            was Governed by McDowell—Lincoln is blinded and under bad advisors and things
                            will go from bad to worse. I see no hope. Our Govt is lost and we must bequeath war misery
                            and anarchy to our children. I have about lost all hope—I have never had the
                            blues so bad in my life & All Military Power is in the hands of West
                                Pointers mear Military Gamblers who have ruined the country and
                            wrecked and lost the Noble institution bequeathed us by our forefathers. We have soldiers
                            plenty—too—many—but no brains—true patriotism
                            and Military talent with them.36
                  
                     Although his blanket condemnation of West Pointers was wide of the mark, Milroy could not
                    be faulted for lamenting that military prowess in the top ranks of the Union Army had not yet
                    emerged.
            Milroy was convinced that McDowell and Second Bull Run had moved him closer to achieving distinction
                    as a brilliant general, one who was both bold and courageous. His stance toward Confederate
                    guerrillas operating in 
                        West Virginia
                     in the autumn and winter of 1862 did little to tarnish that image. The Confederate
                    government in April, 1862, authorized the formation of civilians into companies of Partisan Rangers
                    to protect the rights of southerners in a region torn between North and South. Milroy considered the
                    Rangers nothing more than armed vigilantes who despoiled property belonging to citizens with Union
                    loyalties. He gained such a notorious reputation for retaliating against southerners that the
                    Confederate government ultimately offered a bounty for his capture.37
            
            Milroy had ample reason to suspect the Rangers' motives. As Colonel John D. Imboden, the
                    Rangers' organizer and commander, defined their mission, the partisans were "to
                    wage the most active warfare against our brutal invaders and their domestic allies; to hang about
                    their [Union sympathizers'] camps and shoot down every sentinel, picket, courier and wagon
                    driver we can find & and thus render the country so unsafe that they will not dare to move
                    except in large bodies." He further declared: 
                        I hold that by the laws of God and man, it is our duty to slay them by all the legitimate
                            means in our power. & It is only men I want; men who are not afraid to be shot at in
                            such a cause; men who will pull a trigger on a Yankee with as much alacrity as they would on
                            a mad dog; men whose consciences wont be disturbed by the sight of a vandal carcass.38
                  
                    
            
            In April Confederate guerrillas ambushed a foraging column near Williamsville. Milroy reacted as he
                    had in 
                        Mexico
                     when his men were savagely killed. With Fremont's blessing he sent 250
                    soldiers from the 73rd 
                        Ohio
                     to investigate, instructing Major Richard Long, detachment commander, "to
                    destroy the town if& [he] found 
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., part 2, p. 323; see also Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy,
                            September, [1862], in Paulus, "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," I,
                            123–24.
                  
                     37 Richard O. Curry and F. Gerald Ham, eds., "The
                            Bushwhackers' War: Insurgency and Counter-Insurgency in 
                                West Virginia
                            ," Civil War History, X (December, 1964),
                            423–33.
                  
                     38 John D. Imboden's comments quoted in ibid., 424–25.
               
                     that the citizens had assisted in the destruction of the train
                    or if the guerrillas had been harbored or assisted there &." Milroy told Long
                    "to kill all that& [he] could capture and hang their bodies by the roadside as a
                    warning." Later that month one of Milroy's cavalry units captured Frederick W.
                    Chewning, a notorious guerrilla. Milroy asked 
                        Fremont
                     what he should do with him and then suggested that it would "have a good
                    effect" on other Rangers "to try him by drum-head court-martial and hang
                        him."39
            
            To inhibit further atrocities Milroy issued a draconian order: Federal officers would appraise any
                    loyal Unionists' property seized or destroyed by southern guerrillas. The loss would be
                    assessed against known Confederate sympathizers living in the area. They, in turn, would have
                    twenty-four hours to pay the victims the judgment or face the death penalty. The order stated:
                    "If they fail to pay at the end of the time you have named their houses will be burned and
                    themselves shot and their property all seized &." To ensure that Union officers
                    understood his resolve, Milroy solemnly added, "be sure that you carry out this threat
                    rigidly and show them that you are not trifling or to be trifled with."40
            
            Union soldiers executed the order exactly as Milroy advised. In Saint George they extracted from one
                    family a thousand-dollar payment. Another southerner, Adam Harper, an eighty-two-year-old, crippled,
                    infirm Dutchman, was forced to remit $285 to save his life. In 
                        Tucker County
                     alone Milroy collected over $6,000 in compensatory payments. The rigorous
                    proclamation and its subsequent enforcement prompted Confederate military officers stationed in the
                        Shenandoah Valley to characterize Milroy as
                    "bloodthirsty" and "savage" and a "fiend."41
            
            Francis H. Pierpont, governor of the 
                        Virginia
                     government in exile at 
                        Wheeling
                    , condoned Milroy's conduct. He judged the method of warfare to be righteous
                    and just, the alternative being, he said, to allow "these rebels to enjoy, peaceably, their
                    property, while Union men are robbed." Pierpont proclaimed Milroy "universally
                    popular" among northerners who "endorse him, while the rebels censure
                    &." He hoped Milroy would be "encouraged and sustained." The 
                        United States
                     marshal at 
                        Wheeling
                     said he had seen Milroy's men "carry & [him] in their arms
                    and kiss & [his] hands and garments." Such reverence, he felt, derived both from
                    Milroy's courage and his stand against the Partisan Rangers. Similarly, the surveyor of
                    customs of that city conjectured that only tactics 
                  
                     39 Armstrong, Jackson's Valley Campaign,
                            30; John C. Fremont to Edwin M. Stanton, April 20, 1862, Official Records,
                            ser. 1, vol. V, part 3, p. 95. 
                                Williamsburg
                             was not destroyed nor Chewning hanged though he was jailed. See Virgil
                            Carrington Jones, Gray Ghosts and Rebel Raiders (
                                New York
                            , 1956), 89, 92.
                  
                     40
                            Official Records, ser. 2, vol. V, pp. 780–811, quotation 810;
                                ibid., ser. 3, vol. III, pp. 3–23 passim.
                  
                     41 See note 40 above.
               
                     such as Milroy's could soon end the "damnable
                    slaveholders' rebellion."42
            
            Not everyone shared their viewpoint. When President Jefferson Davis learned of Milroy's
                    actions, he found them not in accordance with the "recognized usages of war." On
                    January 7, 1863, he directed General Robert E. Lee to contact General Henry W. Halleck,
                    commander-in-chief of the 
                        United States
                     Army, to learn whether Milroy's deportment had governmental sanction. Lee
                    wrote, "I am instructed to ask whether your Government will tolerate the execution of an
                    order so barbarous and so revolting to every principle of justice and humanity." He
                    threatened that a continuation of Milroy's policies would result in severe retaliatory
                    measures by the Confederate Army.43
            
            Halleck's resolution of this matter marked the first of several decisions that Milroy
                    thought rooted in prejudice. After examining Lee's allegations, Halleck refused to support
                    the Hoosier general. Milroy, he determined, had not only acted with authority he did not possess but
                    also had, as Lee suggested, violated the rules of war. Halleck directed Milroy to revoke the edict
                    and, in a letter to Lee on January 14, offered what amounted to an apology, excusing the
                    proclamation as the unjustified act of an irresponsible subordinate.44
            
            Milroy, with Lincoln's tacit support, refused to ease his severe tactics. Though no direct
                    documentation exists, the president apparently believed Milroy's suppression of guerrilla
                    activities to be an appropriate response. If anything, the Hoosier's
                    "all-out" strategy foresaw methods effectively employed later by Ulysses S. Grant
                    and William T. Sherman. At the stage of the war in 1862, however, Lincoln was unprepared to give
                    anything more than implicit approval to policies that he would eventually sanction publicly.
            The developing Milroy-Halleck feud affected Milroy's nomination for promotion in January,
                    1863. The president had placed Milroy on a list of candidates for major general, but Halleck balked,
                    removing his name. Lincoln overrode Halleck's veto and reinserted Milroy as a nominee.
                    Halleck's opposition, Milroy surmised, was a direct consequence of events that had occurred
                    in 
                        West Virginia
                    . Lincoln and War Secretary Edwin M. Stanton had favored the promotion for several
                    months, Milroy thought, but it had been, in his words, "baffled and kept back by the
                    vindictive malice and little 
                  
                     42 Francis H. Pierpont quoted in Curry and Ham, "The
                            Bushwhackers' War," 430–31; Edward M. Morton to Robert H.
                            Milroy, October 28, 1862, in Paulus, "Papers of General Robert Huston
                            Milroy," IV, 54; Surveyor of Customs, 
                        Wheeling, Virginia
                     , to
                            Robert H. Milroy, March 9, 1863, Robert H. Milroy Collection (
                                Jasper County
                             Public Library, 
                                Rensselaer
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     43
                            Official Records, ser. 2, vol. V, pp. 780–811; ibid., ser. 3, vol. III, pp. 3–23 passim, quotations
                            8, 10.
                  
                     44 See note 43 above.
               
                     souled jealousy of Halleck &." Milroy boasted
                    that his "acceptance of the promotion & [represented] a complete triumph over old
                    Halleck" and was "the first appointment ever made over his protest since he
                    disecrated the office of Genl in Chief&." With perhaps an attempt at humility
                    Milroy continued, "I am indebted for it to my own merit and the indefatigable and untiring
                    energy of friend [Schuyler] Colfax and others."45
            
            In a letter to his wife Milroy tendered his version of the way that Halleck had tried to discredit
                    him. He contended that after Lincoln sent the nominations to Stanton and Halleck for their approval,
                    "Halleck struck out my name, Old Abe asked him the reason, Halleck said I had issued some
                    very severe unmilitary and outrageous orders in 
                        West Va
                    . for which reason he could not approve of my promotion." Viewing this as
                    tantamount to Halleck's being in bed with the Confederacy and doubtless fueling what was
                    already acute paranoia respecting the commander-in-chief, Milroy theorized, "The guerillas,
                    Bushwackers, Robbers and Horsethieves of W. Va. whom I undertook to suppress and exterminate,
                    complained to Jeff Davis of my stringent and successful orders." Then, he continued, 
                        Jeff complained to Halleck of my violation of the rules of war with these cut-throats and
                            Halleck agreed with his friend Jeff, and sent me a severe reprimand and ordered that the
                            orders that I issued that were so repugnant to Jeff Davis and his fellow traitors, should be
                            immediately rescinded, and upon evidence of Jeff Davis alone he condemned me and struck my
                            name out of the list of nominees of the Presdt. for Majr Gen'l without waiting to
                            hear my justification or a word from me in explanation. I drew up a defence of my point. The
                            W. Va Officers in my command also drew up a complete vindication of my poling and orders,
                            and the W. Va. Legislature hearing of Hallecks course toward me, passed the enclosed
                            preamble and resolutions. When Old Abe saw me so strongly sustained by the soldiers with
                            whom I had been fighting and the people I had been defending, he did not wait for Hallecks
                            approval but sent in my nomination, so I have the gratification of having beaten Halleck and
                            his friend Jeff.46
                  
                    
            
            Meanwhile, Jefferson Davis denounced Milroy's 
                        West Virginia
                     policy in a speech before the Confederate congress on January 12. Perhaps taking a cue
                    from Halleck, the Confederate president declared: "Humanity shudders at the appalling
                    atrocities which are being daily multiplied under the sanction of those who have obtained temporary
                    possession of power in the 
                        United States
                    ." The 
                        Virginia
                     legislature responded by branding Milroy an outlaw, offering a $100,000
                    reward for his capture (dead or alive), and promising to hang him if brought in alive. General Lee
                    recommended to Confederate 
                  
                     45 Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, February 10, 1863, in Paulus,
                            "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," I, 233–34. Schuyler
                            Colfax of Indiana served in the 
                                United States
                             House of Representatives from 1854 to 1869 and was speaker of the House from
                            1863 to 1869. He was vice-president of the 
                                United States
                             during Grant's first administration.
                  
                     46 Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, February 10, 1863, in Paulus,
                            "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," I, 234.
               
                     Secretary of War James Seddon that prisoners captured from
                    Milroy's command be retained "as hostages for the protection of our people against
                    the outrages which he is reported to be committing."47
            
            Milroy—the 
                        West Virginia
                     equivalent of "Beast" Ben Butler, the Union Army commander in 
                        Louisiana
                    —continued his adverse relationship with southern citizenry after leaving
                        Cheat Mountain. When finally promoted to major general, back-dated from
                    November 29, 1862, he took charge of the Second Division, Eighth Army Corps headquartered at
                            
                  Winchester, Virginia
               . Residents of that city—they called him a modern
                    Nero—alleged that Milroy confiscated and destroyed private property, only let civilians
                    swearing loyalty oaths buy supplies in town, censored mail, forbade women to congregate on the
                    streets, and allowed blacks to "shoulder whites off the sidewalks and into the
                    gutters"—the last a common complaint of southern whites when under Union
                    occupation. The general admittedly had little empathy for the people of 
                        Winchester
                    , professing that he was "very tired of living in the midst of treason
                    &." To his wife he wrote, "I feel a strong disposition to play the tyrent
                    among these traitors."48
            
            Milroy's enforcement of the Emancipation Proclamation also failed to win him favor with 
                        Winchester
                     townspeople. The general bragged that he was the first Union Army officer to carry out
                    the decree. On January 3 in an announcement bearing the heading "Freedom To
                    Slaves!" Milroy threatened that those who refused to comply with the president's
                    order would be "regarded as rebels in arms against the lawful authority of the Federal
                    Government and dealt with accordingly." Milroy, ecstatic over Lincoln's
                    declaration, buoyantly confessed to Mary, "Plainly these events are directed and controlled
                    by that Infinite Being who holds the nations of Earth in the hollow of His hand, and who delivered
                    Israels' host from slavery. ‘The spirit of Old John Brown is Marching, Marching,
                    Marching, On."’49
            
            Milroy's occupation policies were controversial, even among fellow officers. Upon
                    discovering what he believed to be Confederate loyalists operating the 
                        Baltimore
                     & 
                        Ohio
                     Railroad, Milroy reported 
                  
                     47 James D. Richardson, comp., A Compilation of the
                                Messages and Papers of the Confederacy Including the Diplomatic Correspondence,
                                1851–1865 (2 vols., 
                                Nashville
                            , 1905), I, 290; copy of the journal of the Senate of 
                                Virginia
                             for Saturday, January 10, 1863, Milroy Collection; Robert E. Lee to James A.
                            Seddon, January 10, 1863, Official Records, ser. 2, vol. V, pp.
                            806–807.
                  
                     48 Grunder and Beck, Second Battle of 
                                    Winchester
                                
                     , 8–13, quotations 9, 13; Gary W. Gallagher, ed., Fighting for the Confederacy: The Personal Recollections of General Edward
                                Porter Alexander (
                        Chapel Hill,
                                    N. C.
                     , 1989), 227; Robert H.
                            Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, January 18, 1863, in Paulus, "Papers of General Robert
                            Huston Milroy," I, 228.
                  
                     49 Order for freeing slaves of 
                                Winchester
                             and vicinity, in Paulus, "Papers of General Robert Huston
                            Milroy," IV, 55; Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, January 18, 1863, in ibid., I, 230.
               
                     to Generals Robert C. Schenck and Benjamin F. Kelley,
                    "This Augean stable needs cleaning out badly." To Milroy's disgust Kelley
                    failed to act, prompting the Hoosier general to denounce him as "one of those good-natured,
                    kind-hearted gentleman who would much rather at any time meet a traitor with a stick of candy than
                    the sword &."50
            
            Brigadier General Gustave P. Cluseret, who arrived in 
                        Winchester
                     ahead of Milroy, became convinced that the Hoosier general erred in failing to adopt a
                    more lenient stance that would garner support rather than wrath from local citizens. When Milroy
                    reversed Cluseret's accommodationist orders regarding residents sympathetic to the
                    Confederacy, the enraged Frenchman demanded that he be removed from Milroy's command,
                    complaining that he had not "come to fight for negroes and to arrest women" and
                    that he believed it "contrary to the usages of the war to refuse to feed
                        prisoners."51 Milroy brushed aside Cluseret's request and
                    wrote to Halleck in 
                        Washington
                    , "I have been grossly deceived and humbuged by this foreigner, and recommend
                    that he be not only relieved from service in my division but also in the U. S. army, for the good of
                    the service." Milroy's 
                        Winchester
                     policies earned him a lasting, notorious reputation. One local historian decades later
                    in 1908 described him as a "ruffian and braggart" and a total "disgrace
                    to the soldierly of America & whose name is never mentioned except to point to his infamy
                    and ultimate overthrow."52
            
            The Second Battle of 
                        Winchester
                    , fought on June 13–15, 1863, was the seminal event for Milroy in the Civil
                    War. It brought his career as a field general to an abrupt, albeit temporary, end. He had taken
                    command of federal troops at 
                        Winchester
                     on New Year's Day with orders to maintain a Union presence and guard the
                    rebuilding of the 
                        Baltimore
                     & 
                        Ohio
                     Railroad. In the spring of 1863 General Lee and Jefferson Davis chose an offensive
                    strategy that required the Army of 
                        Northern Virginia
                     to cross the Blue Ridge Mountains and invade 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The campaign culminated in the Battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                    . Milroy and 
                        Winchester
                     stood in the way.53
            
            Milroy had command of 9,000 infantry and cavalry at 
                        Winchester
                    , including two artillery batteries. Approximately 6,900 troops were at his immediate
                    disposal. The Confederate army was a massive force in comparison, consisting of 20,000 to 30,000
                    hardened veterans under Generals Richard S. Ewell, Jubal A. Early, and 
                  
                     50 Robert H. Milroy to Robert C. Schenck, February 15, 1863, in Official Records, ser. 1, vol. XXV, part 2, pp. 81–82.
                  
                     51 Quoted in Grunder and Beck, Second Battle of 
                                    Winchester
                                
                     , 10.
                  
                     52 For an account of Gustave P. Cluseret's Civil War career
                            see Lowell L. Blais-dell, "A French Civil War Adventurer: Fact and Fancy,"
                                Civil War History, XII (September, 1966), 250–52; Milroy
                            quoted in ibid., 252; historian quoted in Grunder and Beck, Second Battle of 
                                    Winchester
                                
                     , 10.
                  
                     53 The following account of the Second Battle of 
                                Winchester
                             is based on Grunder and Beck, Second Battle of 
                                    Winchester
                                
                     , 45–53.
               
                     Edward Johnson. Grossly outnumbered, Milroy was in a difficult,
                    if not impossible, situation. President Lincoln realized this and on June 14 sent Milroy's
                    superior, General Schenck, the department commander in 
                        Baltimore
                    , an ominous telegram: "Get Milroy from 
                        Winchester
                     to Harper's Ferry if possible. He will be gobbled up, if he remains, if he is
                    not already past salvation." A short time later Lincoln received a dispatch from General
                    Daniel Tyler in 
                        Baltimore
                     informing him that "Milroy is in a tight place. If he gets out, it will be by
                    good luck and hard fighting. Not a straggler from his army is yet in; it is neck or
                        nothing."54
            
            Unfortunately, Milroy had neither good luck nor hard fighting on his side. Most detrimental was a
                    total lack of information regarding the size and strength of the opposing force. He also
                    underestimated the abilities of Lee. As late as the night of June 12 Milroy believed 
                        it impossible that Lee's army, with its immense artillery and baggage trains, could
                            have escaped from the Army of the Potomac, and crossed the Blue Ridge & The movement
                            must have occupied five or six days and notice & could have been conveyed to me from
                            General Hooker's headquarters in five minutes.55
                  
                     Milroy did not find out until the next day that he confronted two corps of Lee's
                    army. Not realizing the potential for disaster, the cocksure general decided to remain at 
                        Winchester
                    . He sent word to General Ewell that he would defend the town until "hell froze
                    over" rather than fall back to Harper's Ferry. And when Schenck finally reversed
                    his order that Milroy hold 
                        Winchester
                    , the Confederates had cut telegraphic communications, and the message was never
                    received. Not until 9:00 p.m. on June 14––there nearly surrounded and in
                    jeopardy of being overrun—did Milroy, in a conference with his staff, finally order a
                    retreat to Harper's Ferry. Milroy said he "called a council of war after dark and
                    the officers were all for an evacuation or a surrender. I told them that the latter was out of the
                    question and reluctantly consented to an evacuation."56
            
            June 14 had been disastrous for Milroy. General Early's attack from the south and west had
                    forced him to recall and consolidate his forces around Fort Milroy near 
                        Winchester
                    . Cornelia McDonald, a local resident who witnessed the scene in the evening twilight,
                    described it as confused and chaotic, with Rebel cannon echoing in the distance and bleeding horses
                    and men everywhere.57
            
            
               
                  54 Abraham Lincoln to Robert C. Schenck, June 14, 1863, in The Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln, ed. Roy P. Basler (8 vols., 
                            New Brunswick
                        , N. J., 1953), VI, 274, 275n.
               
                  55 Quoted in Grunder and Beck, Second Battle of 
                                Winchester
                            
                  , 26.
               
                  56 Terry L. Jones, ed., The Civil War Memoirs of Captain
                            William J. Seymour: Reminiscences of a 
                                Louisiana
                             Tiger (
                     Baton Rouge,
                                La.
                  , 1991), 60–63; Robert
                        H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, June 21, 1863, in Paulus, "Papers of General Robert Huston
                        Milroy," I, 252.
               
                  57 Grunder and Beck, Second Battle of 
                                Winchester
                            
                  , 43.
            
            
            While Milroy and his officers convened the war council, Ewell anticipated the Federal's next
                    move and sent Johnson several miles up the Martinsburg Road to wait for Milroy's troops. At
                    two o'clock in the morning, leaving artillery and wagons behind, Milroy abandoned 
                        Winchester
                     and started toward Harper's Ferry. Two hours later the Confederate ambush took
                    him by complete surprise. Gallantly, Milroy rushed to the front. Rallying the disorganized Federals,
                    he led a fierce, hour-long skirmish. At daybreak, assessing the situation as hopeless, he ordered
                    his soldiers to cease fighting and to resume their retreat toward Harper's Ferry.58 In a matter of hours Milroy had witnessed almost the whole of his command
                    evaporate. He had sustained losses of 443 casualties, 23 artillery pieces, 200,000 rounds of small
                    arms ammunition, and 300 wagons. Most devastating of all, 3,358 Union soldiers were captured.
                    Confederate casualties, in contrast, numbered only 269.59
            
            Lincoln was despondent. He met that night at the War Department with Halleck and Navy Secretary
                    Gideon Welles. The president, Welles recalled in his memoirs, told them that he felt very low and
                    that 
                        Winchester
                     looked like Harper's Ferry, a similar Union collapse in September, 1862, all
                    over again. From statements the "white with rage" Halleck uttered, Welles
                    concluded that "poor Milroy & [was] to be made the scapegoat, and blamed for the
                    stupid blunders, neglects, and mistakes of those who should have warned and advised
                        him."60
            
            Welles was right. On June 27 Halleck removed Milroy from command and had him taken into custody.
                    Though outraged by his arrest, Milroy realized the leverage that the 
                        Winchester
                     defeat afforded the commander-in-chief. The following day he penned an urgent letter to
                    Lincoln in care of Interior Secretary John P. Usher, also a Hoosier. Of Usher, Milroy requested,
                    "I ask you as a friend in Gods name, to go with it [enclosed letter] to the President at
                    once & try to procure my release from the grasp of an incompetent, unprincipled
                    tyrant." The communication delivered to Lincoln contained a tone of desperation. Milroy
                    maintained that Halleck had arrested him like a "common fellon" because the
                    general unjustly hated him "with the blind unreasoning hatred of an Indian
                    &." He offered to "take any command, or go into the ranks as a private,
                    rather than 
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., 45–53; Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, June 21,
                            1863, in Paulus, "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," I,
                            252–54.
                  
                     59 Edwin B. Coddington, The 
                                    Gettysburg
                                 Campaign: A Study in Command (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 89.
                  
                     60 Gideon Welles, Diary of Gideon Welles: Secretary of
                                the Navy under Lincoln and Johnson (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1909), I, 328. Interestingly, evidence suggests that Schenck was, indeed,
                            primarily responsible for the 
                                Winchester
                             disaster. On June 14 Halleck telegraphed Schenck: "I have so
                            repeatedly urged you to withdraw your main forces from 
                                Winchester
                            , and so recently (the 11th) directed it, that I cannot understand how Milroy
                            could have been left there to be invested." Regardless, it was Milroy, not Schenck,
                            that Halleck placed under arrest. Henry W. Halleck to Robert C. Schenck, June 14, 1863, in
                                Official Records, ser. 1, vol. XXVII, part 2, p. 171.
               
                     remain idle at this critical period." Milroy concluded
                    his plea, "After the crisis is passed, & my country is saved, Halleck may have me
                    tried to his hearts content and hang me if he can."61
            
            Milroy had indeed had a rocky relationship with Halleck. The commander-in-chief had opposed
                    Milroy's handling of Confederate guerrillas in 
                        West Virginia
                    , his promotion to major general, his appointment to command at 
                        Winchester
                    , and his decision to remain there and fight. Further, Halleck frequently disparaged
                    Milroy's generalship. Two cases illustrate Halleck's attitude. To
                    Milroy's request for reinforcements in January, 1863, Halleck wrote to General Burnside:
                    "I do not rely much upon General Milroy's statement of the enemy's
                    movements. He cries wolf so often that he may be caught. I send you the substance of his telegraph
                    for what it is worth." And immediately following 
                        Winchester
                    , Halleck ordered Schenck not to allow Milroy any command at Harper's Ferry
                    with the blunt denunciation, "We have had enough of that sort of military
                        genius."62
            
            Lincoln's response understandably disappointed Milroy. Although the president was
                    sympathetic, 
                        Winchester
                     had placed Lincoln in a difficult position. He reacted coolly to Milroy's
                    request for another command: "I have never doubted your courage and devotion to the cause.
                    But you have just lost a Division, and prima facie the fault is upon you; and while that remains
                    unchanged, for me to put you in command again, is to justly subject me to the charge of having put
                    you there on purpose to have you lose another." Lincoln refused to accept Milroy's
                    assertion that the wellspring of Halleck's dislike for him was personal pique. In fact,
                    Lincoln lectured Milroy concerning the Hoosier's own prejudices: "I have scarcely
                    seen anything from you at any time, that did not contain imputations against your superiors, and a
                    chafing against acting the part they had assigned you." Lincoln continued: "YOU
                    have constantly urged the idea that you were persecuted because you did not come from
                    West-Point&. This, my dear general, is I fear, the rock on which you have split."
                    Milroy responded with a typical Mil-royism, confiding to his wife: "Old Abe seems to be a
                    mear tool for Halleck."63
            
            In August Lincoln, at Milroy's behest, appointed a court of inquiry to investigate what went
                    awry at 
                        Winchester
                    . It required twenty-seven days and eighteen witnesses to exonerate Milroy of any
                    wrongdoing. The Hoosier general insisted that he had simply followed his superiors' stated
                    orders, specifically those of Schenck, 
                  
                     61 Quoted in Basler, Collected Works of Abraham
                            Lincoln, VI, 309n.
                  
                     62 Halleck to Ambrose E. Burnside, January 7, 1863, Official Records, ser. 1, vol. XXI, p. 954; Halleck to Schenck, June 15, 1863, ibid., ser. 1, vol. XXVII, part 2, p. 171.
                  
                     63 Lincoln to Robert H. Milroy, June 29, 1863, in Basler, Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln, VI, 308; Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy,
                            June 30, 1863, in Paulus, "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," I,
                            258.
               
                    
                    
                  GENERAL ROBERT H. MILROY
                                AND STAFF ON LOOKOUT MOUNTAIN, 1864
                  
                     
                                Jasper County
                             Public Library, 
                                Rensselaer
                            , Indiana. Photograph by DoubleTake Photography, 
                                Monticello
                            , Indiana.
                whose last dispatch had told him to hold the ground at 
                        Winchester
                     as long as possible. On a personal level Milroy blamed Halleck for his troubling
                    circumstances. The commander-in-chief, he believed, remained angry over the situation with the 
                        West Virginia
                     guerrillas and continued to slight him because he had no West Point credentials.64
            
            It took eleven months for Milroy to garner another command. In December, 1863, Lincoln, agreeing with
                    the court of inquiry that found Milroy innocent of blame for the 
                        Winchester
                     debacle and pressured by the Indiana congressional delegation, asked General Grant
                    through Brigadier General James H. Wilson if he could find Milroy a position. He "is not a
                    difficult man to satisfy," Lincoln wrote, "sincerity and courage being his strong
                    traits. Believing in our cause, and wanting to fight in it, is the whole matter with him. Could you,
                    without embarrassment, assign him a place, if directed 
                  
                     64 Basler, Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln, IV,
                            309n; Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, July 13, 1863, in Paulus, "Papers of
                            General Robert Huston Milroy," I, 259–60; Official
                            Records, ser. 1, vol. XXVII, part 2, pp. 88–197 passim;
                            Grunder and Beck, Second Battle of 
                                    Winchester
                                
                     , 69–71.
               
                     to report to you." Despite executive support neither
                    Wilson nor Grant wanted Milroy's services. The former stated that any brigadier general
                    would prove as competent as Milroy. The latter told Lincoln he could not "give General
                    Milroy a command without prejudice to the service nor without doing injustice to other
                        officers."65
            
            These reverses did not dampen Milroy's resolve to return to the field. In March, 1864, he
                    implored Grant, "try me—try me where there is danger and hard fighting to be
                    done, and if I fail, then have me shot." He had hoped for a cavalry commission, but Grant
                    refused after General George Meade, apparently unfamiliar with Milroy's military training
                    and background, said that Milroy lacked adequate qualifications to head a cavalry unit.66 Twice rejected by Grant, Milroy traveled to 
                        Georgia
                    . At Kingston he met and dined with General Sherman. Milroy remembered the evening as
                    pleasant but unproductive, "He is very much of a gentleman and I am pleased with him but I
                    could not get him to consent to give me an active comd in front." From Kingston, Milroy
                    walked five miles to General George H. Thomas's headquarters where he was also denied a
                    front-line assignment. Thomas instead ordered him to report to 
                        Nashville
                     to assume charge of a unit of 100-day men.67 A lesser appointment
                    than he had sought, Milroy's duties included receiving and organizing militia regiments and
                    defending the 
                        Nashville
                     & Chattanooga Railroad. At 
                  Murfreesboro, Tennessee
               , in
                    December, 1864, however, Milroy at least partially redeemed himself for 
                        Winchester
                    . He routed General Nathan Bedford Forrest, captured two artillery pieces, and took 207
                    prisoners including 18 officers.68
            
            Unfortunately, even substantial victories were not enough to make up for the disappointments and
                    setbacks Milroy had suffered. The epic battles, the ones capable of producing heroes, he realized,
                    had been fought without him. Deprived of the rewards, accolades, and glory of which he deemed
                    himself worthy, Milroy left the Union Army in July, 1865, an embittered man. His assessment of what
                    had gone awry in his bid for fame was typical. A letter to his wife near the war's end
                    provided his rationalization and attested to his bitterness: 
                  
                     
                        For twenty-seven months I did not sleep away from my command a single night, and in
                                    that time I come up from the rank of Captain to that of Maj. Genl. but my rapid
                                        
                              
                                 65 Lincoln to Ulysses S. Grant, December 19, 1863, in
                                            Basler, Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln, VII, 80; John
                                            Y. Simon, ed., The Papers of Ulysses S. Grant (18 vols.,
                                                    
                                    Carbondale, Ill.
                                 ,
                                            1979–1991), IX, 552n.
                              
                                 66 Simon, Papers of Ulysses S.
                                            Grant, X, 278–79n.
                              
                                 67 Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, November 23,
                                            1863, May 29, 1864, in Paulus, "Papers of General Robert Huston
                                            Milroy," I, 276, 353–54.68 George H. Thomas to Henry W.
                                            Halleck, December 11, 1864, Official Records, ser. 1, Vol.
                                            XLV, part 2, p. 143.
                              
                                 68 George H. Thomas to Henry W. Halleck, December 11,
                                            1864, Official Records, ser. 1, Vol. XLV, part 2, p.
                                        143.
                           
                                     promotion together with my popularity with the
                                    troops attracted the attention of the West Point aristocracy who looked upon me as a
                                    trespasser upon their special rights and the baleful eyes of the infamous Halleck
                                    were fixed on me. Failing in his efforts to prevent my promotion he determined to
                                    ruin me, and through the imbacility of Lincoln he has been alowed to carry out and
                                    gratify his malicious vilany.69
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            Milroy continued his diatribe against Halleck: 
                  
                     
                        First [he] placed me in arrest like a felon without even the pretence of any cause.
                                    Then [he] kept [me] on the shelf a year, and then & [gave me] an obscure
                                    inactive Comd. Thus the dream of my life has been wrecked and destroyed by the
                                    grossest, most cruel, brutal injustice[.] for over two years my prospects were
                                    brilliant. I felt that I was living to some purpose that I was doing glorious
                                    service for my country and the cause of human freedom and free Government of Earth.
                                    That I was making a name that would be a proud heritage for my children and a pride
                                    to my posterity and one that would live in history. In short that the brightest
                                    dreams of my youth were to be realized.70
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            Although separated by hundreds of miles, Mary Milroy must have literally felt her husband's
                    pain when he then wrote: 
                  
                     
                        But Oh! How excruciating, how bitter the disappointment. My brightest hopes and most
                                    cherished dreamed are destroyed. For eighteen months my disappointment (except when
                                    asleep) has caused me constant anguish. But I am trying hard to throw it off. I have
                                    experienced most vividly the truth of Solomons writing, that all is vanity and
                                    vexation of Spirit and [I] have realized with certainty that the things of this life
                                    are inconstant, uncertain and unsatisfying. This gross injustice I have suffered is
                                    sufficient, were I without conscience and principle, to make me an Arnold. What
                                    little reputation I have acquired, so is so small, so insignificant, in comparison
                                    to what it would have been, had I been fairly delt by and justly treated, that I
                                    regard it as nothing—almost with contempt. I feel entirely hopeless of
                                    any redress of my wrongs. I am under the heel of West Pointers despotism and must
                                    remain there while in the army—for the reason that the army is in the
                                    hands and wholly under the controll of West Pointers, who are as selfish, as
                                    clanish, as jealous of their cast as are the Brahrmans of 
                                        India
                                     and equally as intolerent towards any officer, not a West Pointer, who
                                    presumes to intrude among the Stars which they regard as a military sacrilige.71
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            Not unique among military figures, Robert Huston Milroy longed for the fame and honors that war could
                    sometimes bestow. Despite a military education, Mexican War service similar to many other Civil War
                    generals, and a willingness to take the fight to the foe, such laurels always seemed out of reach.
                    Reasons for the Hoosier general's disappointments are difficult to ascertain. The injury to
                    his reputation from the grim result at 
                        Winchester
                     was a factor, as was the issue of Milroy's personality. Too often he
                    questioned the judgment of superiors, and when confronted with difficult problems or ordered to
                    perform tasks contrary to what he considered correct, he became quarrelsome and abrupt. Milroy,
                    unfortunately, had a flaw for which even victories and mettle could 
                  
                     69 Robert H. Milroy to Mary J. Milroy, January 1, 1865, in Paulus,
                            "Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy," I, 489.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., 489–90.
               
                     not compensate: an overweening sense of persecution deriving
                    from the fact that he was a volunteer soldier and had never, as he put it, darkened the hallowed
                    halls of West Point—a persecution complex undoubtedly exacerbated by the fact that West
                    Point had been his life's goal well into early adulthood. Because of real and imagined
                    slights, he effectively alienated himself from generals such as Grant, Sherman, and Halleck, whose
                    support, not surprisingly, proved tenuous or nonexistent when 
                        Winchester
                    -type setbacks occurred. In a real sense Milroy's Civil War experience was a
                    self-fulfilling prophecy—he expected superiors to impede the realization of a
                    glory-filled career, and, in large measure, that is what happened.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Countering Colonization: Native American Women and Great Lakes Missions,
                        1630–1900. By Carol Devens. (Berkeley: University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1992. Pp. xi, 185. Maps, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $30.00.)
            Carol Devens examines the gender basis for responses to Christian proselytization among Ojibwa, Cree,
                    and Montagnais-Naskapi. Placing her study of Indian missions in the Great Lakes area squarely within
                    the history of European colonization, she identifies three patterns emerging from the midseventeenth
                    through the nineteenth centuries.
            The first pattern reveals Indian men and women at odds with one another in their responses to
                    seventeenth-century Jesuit missions. Devens limits her study of these missions to an examination of
                    those "domiciled native groups who accepted French protection, converted to Catholicism,
                    and adopted a sedentary manner of living. (The reader should note carefully her passing comments
                    that the experiences of these groups may not have been typical.) She writes that men were more
                    attracted to the new religion than were women, who often resisted the Jesuits. Devens points to the
                    Jesuits' repeated attempts to impose a male-dominated nuclear family model and to the
                    disruptive effects of the fur trade as sources of female animosity toward the missions.
            Devens sees a second pattern emerging between 1830 and 1870 in the acquiescence of both men and women
                    among 
                        Canada
                    's Cree and Northern Ojibwa to Methodist missions. She believes that these
                    Canadian Indians came to accept the missions because they identified them with the activities of the
                    Hudson Bay Company, which offered material advantages that could improve the Indians' poor
                    economic circumstances. Farther to the south Ojibwa came into contact with missionaries from the
                    American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions (ABCFM) during roughly this same period. Here,
                    however, Devens discerns an emerging third pattern of mounting hostility toward mission work among
                    both men and women, who came to see missionaries as agents of the federal government and white
                    incursion.
            Devens argues that the first pattern of divided response re-emerged by the late nineteenth century in
                    missions run by the ABCFM and the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions in 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , where whites were overwhelming Native American populations. Here men saw economic
                    benefits, for example in the literacy skills that missionaries offered, while women increasingly
                    became the "conservators of traditional ways" (p. 113). This pattern of gender
                    dichotomy and opposition, Devens argues, continued  into the
                    twentieth century, resulting in misinterpretations by anthropologists, who inaccurately applied
                    contemporary findings to past circumstances.
            The patterns that Devens describes might more accurately be described as trends, or tendencies, given
                    the degree to which native responses fluctuated and given the fact that her evidence is thin in
                    places. Greater awareness of the extent to which missionaries' agendas diverged from those
                    of dominant colonial interests would have added subtlety to her analysis. Still, Devens is to be
                    commended for taking on a broad, comparative study that raises provocative questions about gender
                    relations, questions that ethno-historians must not ignore.
            AMY SCHUTT is managing editor of the History
                        of Education Quarterly and is writing a study of Native Americans within the Moravian
                    missions in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . 1765–1782.
         
         
            
               White Captives: Gender and Ethnicity on the American Frontier. By June Namias. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1993. Pp. xix, 378. Illustrations, maps, appendix, table, notes, index.
                    Clothbound, $39.95; paperbound, $16.95.)
            While recent writing about Europeans and Indians in the New World has shifted the story away from the
                    European to the Indian side of the border, June Namias, in her study of white captives, returns to
                    an older approach. She argues for a neo-Turnerian interpretation that seeks the meaning of America
                    on the margins of European society where it met the native tribes. In this encounter Europeans
                    defined themselves by measuring their way of life against a mythic Indian world. The real native is
                    scarcely of interest in this kind of confrontation. Europeans dealt largely with their own demons
                    and mythic anxieties in their sometimes desperate effort to define a new American self.
            In a sense the native people endorsed this process by taking white captives, exposing them to the
                    Indian culture, and often attempting to incorporate them into tribal society. Of course the captives
                    themselves were forced to grapple with their sense of self; depending on their psychic stability,
                    and the circumstances of the captivity, with more or less success. But more important, the captives
                    very early became a public issue. A substantial body of literature grew from the seventeenth through
                    the late nineteenth century describing the captive experience and examining its implications for the
                    development of a European society in America.
            Namias is mainly interested in female captives, though they constituted only a minority of those
                    taken by the Indians. They are in fact the most interesting cases and she believes the most
                    significant because the society at large seemed more threatened by the  alliance between women and Indians. On this latter point she is
                    probably right, though her examination of the matter is written in entirely conventional formulas.
                    She does make one significant contribution by arranging the female narratives into chronological
                    categories that place them in historical context. The first group she calls the
                    "Survivors," illustrated by Mary Rowlandson, who managed to endure their
                    captivities, retaining their own cultural loyalties intact while at the same time adjusting to the
                    requirements of Indian captivity. These captives are principally 
                        New England
                     Puritans, and they are sustained by their belief in God and his providence. The
                    "Survivors" are succeeded by the "Amazons" in the revolutionary
                    and early national periods. Here the earlier Cotton Mather version of Hannah Dustan's brief
                    experience with Indians stands out. On the trail into Indian country the warriors made the mistake
                    of falling asleep. Mrs. Dustan remained awake, slaughtered and scalped her captors, and returned to
                    civilization to claim a bounty. Namias sees the Amazonian captives as an expression of American
                    nationalism, a plausible explanation though her contention that their activities are stimulated by
                    racism rests on little evidence. In truth the "Amazons" would appear to be a small
                    group among the captivity narratives. The most significant of the captives are what she calls the
                    "Frail Flowers." Descriptions of these unfortunate women flourished throughout the
                    nineteenth century, contemporary with the domesticated woman who lived her life under male
                    direction. In captivity her only hope of survival was to be saved by a masterful hero.
            Unfortunately the bulk of the book makes little use of this taxonomy. Namias offers interpretive
                    essays on two noted captives, Jane McCrea and Mary Jemison, and one little known subject, Sarah
                    Wakefield, who was taken in 1862 in the Dakota War. The essays are not uninteresting, but they do
                    not as a whole move the examination of the captivity narrative very far. Jane McCrea was hardly a
                    captive at all. The Indians murdered her soon after she was taken, and the theme of her story would
                    seem to be her relationship with her family rather than the problem of a civilization at risk in the
                    borderland. The saga of Mary Jemison presents an altogether more satisfactory subject. Namias sees
                    her as a survivor, which she certainly was, but beyond that obvious point her examination bogs down
                    in a description of the so-called Iroquois matriarchate. Even if this interpretation of Iroquois
                    culture was convincing, it has no apparent bearing on the life of Mary Jemison. She was not a clan
                    mother, the source of female power among the Iroquois (the identity of her clan is itself
                    uncertain), and if she exercised any authority in her later years, it was because of her
                    identification with the whites who were invading the Genessee country. Namias presents Sarah
                    Wakefield as a nineteenth-century woman with a social conscience who wanted a measure of justice for
                         the Indians, which seems about right from what is known of
                    her story. Beyond this point the evidence for her motivation is very slim, a limitation that in no
                    way inhibits the author's speculations.
            No doubt the experiences of white captives, particularly as their stories were translated into
                    popular culture, reveal a great deal about the American sense of self. The unencumbered individual
                    presented with the unlimited possibilities of the American continent could not but feel thwarted by
                    the resistance of the native people. The threat of "savagery" was a constant theme
                    in European and American discussions of the New World from the earliest contacts. Namias quite aptly
                    adds the factor of gender. Indians treated men and women differently, and the popular culture was
                    acutely sensitive to the dangers of female captivity, perhaps even more so than it was to the more
                    common captivity of men. If only in calling attention to this matter, Namias has rendered a service
                    to scholarship.
            BERNARD W. SHEEHAN is professor of history, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
         
         
            
               Chronicles of Notre Dame du Lac. By Edward Sorin.
                    Translated by John M. Toohey. Edited by James T. Connelly. (Notre Dame, Ind.:
                    University of Notre Dame Press, 1992. Pp. xxviii, 335. Notes, maps,
                    illustrations, index. $18.95.)
            Father Edward F. Sorin (1814–1893), French-born priest, member of the Congregation of the
                    Holy Cross, and founder of the University of Notre Dame, authored the
                    chronicles (annual resume of key events) required of every house in his religious community. This
                    translation reports Sorin's activities from 1841 to 1866, Notre
                    Dame's participation in the Civil War, and Sorin's additions to the
                    chronicles written in 1880. All controversies are presented candidly because the chronicles were
                    meant for a sympathetic in-house audience, not for publication. Of course, since they are
                    Sorin's memoirs, he is always right in every controversy.
            The chronicles trace Sorin's constant battles for independence from his French superiors
                    until he himself was elected superior general. He also sought autonomy from Indiana's
                    bishops. He gladly abandoned 
                        Montgomery
                     in 
                        Daviess County
                     when Bishop Celes-tine de la Hailandiere of 
                        Vincennes
                     offered him the present Notre Dame property at 
                        South Bend
                    . After all, why would one willingly travel hundreds of miles across the state during a
                    snowy November if not to remove oneself from the watchful eye of a prelate whose inflexibility
                    matched Sorin's? Then when Hailandiere questioned his authority over Holy Cross Sisters,
                    Sorin settled them in 
                  Bertrand, Michigan
               , just outside Hailandiere's diocese.
            
               Notre Dame's founder considered Indiana insignificant. He opposed the
                    bishop's dream of a major Holy Cross presence in 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    
                    
                  EARLIEST EXTANT PANORAMA
                            OF NOTRE DAME, C. 1848
                  University of Notre Dame Archives, Notre
                            Dame, Indiana
               
                     while he worked to open a college in 
                        Kentucky
                    . By 1857, the year he freed himself from episcopal jurisdiction by placing his
                    community under direct papal authority, Sorin had established Holy Cross in 
                  New Orleans, Cincinnati,
                            New York City, Chicago
               , and 
                        Philadelphia
                    . In Indiana the Holy Cross community did not ordinarily serve south of the
                        Wabash River until long after Sorin's death.
            The Notre Dame chronicles present to the reader the human side of the origins of
                    the Holy Cross community in America and demythologize the beginnings of one of America's
                    great universities. They are resplendent with financial challenges, stark ambitions, exciting
                    misunderstandings, and serious infighting. For Hoosier and religious historians this primary source
                    will be a welcome addition to their library shelves. Just beware of the caption gremlin: the
                    portrait of Bishop Stephen Bazin, Sorin's only episcopal friend in 
                        Vincennes
                    , is labelled as that of Hailandiere, Sorin's archrival.
            JAMES J. DIVITA, history professor at Marian College, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is researching his sixth parish history, this one on Assumption, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is currently president of the Indiana Religious History Association.
         
         
            
               The Black Laws in the Old Northwest: A Documentary History. By Stephen
                    Middleton. (
                  Westport, Conn.
               : Greenwood Press, 1993. Pp. xxix, 427. Notes, bibliographies,
                    index. $55.00.)
            In his preface Stephen Middleton focuses on a paradoxical characteristic of the Old Northwest: an
                    area strongly committed to principles of liberty and free labor yet adamantly antiblack in sentiment
                    and practice. From the beginning the Northwest Ordinance outlawed slavery; yet in every state
                    created from the territory, the legal system upheld laws circumscribing and often openly forbidding
                    African Americans' equality as citizens and residents. Without understanding this history
                    of an exclusive vision of freedom and liberty, the persistence of racism in this country makes
                    little sense. Therefore, Middleton's collection of "black laws" is an
                    important contribution to better understanding not only the past but the present.
            The book is divided into five parts, one for each of the states of the Old Northwest presented in the
                    order of statehood. Each state is given a three- to five-page introduction; then various laws,
                    organized topically, are presented for each state. These laws are followed by an interesting and
                    revealing sampling of judicial cases that offer a sense of how the laws were interpreted and
                    enforced. 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana receive the lengthiest treatment (together constituting over 250 pages),
                    while 
                  Illinois, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                     share about 150 pages.
            
            The section on Indiana will certainly be of interest to readers of the Indiana Magazine
                        of History. In his introductory pages to the Hoosier state Middleton observes that
                    "Indiana was unusually hostile to people of color" (p. 160). He gives no
                    explanation of why this might be true other than the general observation made in his introduction
                    that "the enslavement of Africans reinforced the color prejudice of the whites &
                    [making] racial discrimination inevitable" (p. xxvii).
            Laws in the Indiana Territory originally tried to circumvent Article 6 of the Northwest Ordinance,
                    which prohibited slavery by allowing indenture for life. After statehood, laws were passed
                    discouraging African-American immigration and in 1851 prohibiting it outright. Black laws also
                    denied people of African descent basic citizenship rights such as voting, serving as jurors, serving
                    as militiamen, holding state office, and testifying in court against whites. Miscegenation laws and
                    exclusion from schools attempted to separate the races further and to perpetuate white dominance.
                    Most of these laws remained in effect until the civil rights laws of 1885.
            Judging by Middleton's acknowledgements, most of his research was done in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        North Carolina
                     libraries. Since his book covers only five states, it would seem that checking with
                    each state's historical library would have been important. From them the author could
                    garner local material not readily available from standard state law collections to increase depth of
                    analysis in his introductory sections and to augment the bibliographic references. Nevertheless,
                    this volume provides a useful and convenient reference for persons interested in the Old Northwest,
                    African-American history, legal history, and the persistence of racism.
            CAROL HUNTER teaches American history at Earlham College, 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana. She is the author of To Set the Captives Free: Reverend Jermain
                        Wesley Loguen and the Struggle for Freedom (1993).
         
         
            
               Letters Home: Henry Matrau of the Iron Brigade. Edited by Marcia Reid-Green.
                    (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1993. Pp. xvii, 166. Map, illustrations, notes, index. $22.50.)
            This is a fascinating little book that gives the reader a good look into the life of the ordinary
                    soldier during the Civil War, a statement that can be made about most of the myriad works containing
                    diaries and letters of Civil War soldiers. Since the war there have been literally thousands of such
                    volumes, most with some value that makes them stand on their own. This work is no exception: it
                    makes several contributions that justify its publication.
            Henry Matrau was an exceptionally literate man in a literate army. Although only sixteen when he
                    fraudulently joined the army in 1861, he rose through the ranks to finish the war as a captain.  His letters are incisive, informative, and occasionally even
                    humorous. He was in most of the battles in which the Army of the Potomac participated, with the
                    notable exception of Antietam, and wrote about them all. Interestingly, most Civil War letters
                    reveal that the authors knew little about events in which they participated, even fierce and
                    momentous battles. Matrau, however, seems to have a better sense about events than most of his
                    fellow soldiers. His letters also show that a soldier's existence during war consisted of
                    boring, routine, mundane activities punctuated by moments of horrendous violence.
            Matrau's letters are of additional significance for the Midwest, as his unit—the
                    famed Iron Brigade—was the only western brigade in the Army of the Potomac. The unit
                    suffered massive casualties in most battles from Second Bull Run through 
                        Gettysburg
                    , where it was effectively destroyed and lost its western character when it was rebuilt.
                    However, its reputation and contribution to the Union cause was perhaps the greatest of any single
                    unit in the army. And Henry Matrau was in the thick of that action.
            The book is well organized, with an introduction to each chapter that gives an overview of events
                    covered by the letters in that chapter. There is a useful cast of characters listed at the end of
                    the book along with a good index. Curiously, however, there is no bibliography. Perhaps the author
                    felt that the endnotes would suffice. There is also only one sketchy map, which erroneously dates
                    George B. McClellan's Peninsular Campaign as 1863 rather than 1862. More maps would have
                    been helpful.
            Still this is a good book that imparts to the reader the thoughts and feelings of the Civil War
                    soldier.
            RAYMOND L. SHOEMAKER is the assistant executive director
                    of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is the author of several articles on military, naval, and diplomatic history. In
                    addition, he is executive producer of two Grammy-nominated historical albums on Hoagy Carmichael and
                    Cole Porter.
         
         
            
               The Midwestern Ascendancy in American Writing. By Ronald Weber. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1992. Pp. xi, 252. Notes, index. $35.00.)
            "Regionalism in all its many manifestations remains one of the most elusive threads in the
                    complex texture of America," states Ronald Weber at the beginning of this insightful study
                    (p. ix). The rest of the book testifies to the aptness of the metaphor as the author skillfully
                    follows the thread of midwestern literature in its weave through the varied fabric of American
                    culture from the 1870s to around 1930.
            These years, of course, make up the period that Hoosiers know as the Golden Age of Indiana
                    Literature, when books by Indiana 
                    
                  THEODORE DREISER
                  
                  
                     
                                Vigo County
                             Hibtorical Society, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana.
                authors such as Lew Wallace, James Whitcomb Riley, Booth Tark-ington, and Gene
                    Stratton-Porter topped national sales charts. Weber, however, is little concerned with the
                    "best-selling effusions" (p. 15) of these "Indiana romancers"
                    (p. 3), preferring to concentrate on authors and works that offer a less conventional response to
                    their material. His focus is on "imaginative work of enduring stature & in American
                    writing as a whole," work that has a "clear Midwestern grounding" (p.
                    12). Hamlin Garland, Theodore Dreiser, Floyd Dell, Henry B. Fuller, Robert Herrick, Carl Sandburg,
                    Edgar Lee Masters, Sherwood Anderson, Sinclair Lewis, Willa Cather, Ruth Suckow, and O. E. Rolvaag
                    are the primary objects of his attention. "Although the entire range of Midwestern writing
                    during its period of ascendancy is not represented in these pages," says Weber, "I
                    try to take into account most of what is best" (p. 12).
            His standards for judging what is best are carefully elaborated in the opening chapter,
                    "Warm Center, Ragged Edge." Taken from separate passages in F. Scott
                    Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby, the terms represent the two opposing
                    traditions of midwestern writing: uncritical celebration of the region as an agricultural paradise
                    versus harsh denunciation of it as a culturally backward wasteland. Weber derives his critical
                    theory from Henry Nash Smith's analysis of the paradox inherent in Frederick Jackson
                    Turner's frontier thesis, which drew equally from a static garden myth that evoked an  ideal pioneer past and, contradictorily, from a dynamic belief
                    in the stages of civilization that found the ideal in an enlightened urban society. While Smith
                    finds this contradiction to be a problem for intellectual historians, Weber believes that it is a
                    necessary ingredient of the best midwestern writing. "This central ambivalence within
                    Midwestern life &," he writes, "has enriched its literature in the sense
                    of providing it with recurring situations of leave-taking and return as well as & an
                    underlying complexity of conflicting and unresolved attitudes" (p. 24).
            In the chapters that follow Weber applies his theory in lucid, cogent, and imaginative prose to the
                    best works of the midwestern ascendancy. Beginning with Joseph Kirkland, E. W. Howe, and Edward
                    Eggleston, Weber methodically works his way through the pantheon of the region's writers,
                    offering biographical sketches, summarizing the most important books, analyzing each contribution in
                    terms of its qualities of sympathy and resistance, and placing each author's contribution
                    in the context of what has previously been discussed. While Indiana Golden Age adherents may resent
                    Weber's dismissal of its leading lights, they will have a difficult time disagreeing with
                    the author's arguments. In all, The Midwestern Ascendancy is a masterful
                    performance and an essential book for those interested in regionalism, American literary realism, or
                    midwestern writing.
            J. KENT CALDER is the Indiana Historical
                    Society's managing editor. He contributed the overview essay for the literature section of
                    the forthcoming Encyclopedia of 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               .
         
         
            
               Revolt of the Provinces: The Regionalist Movement in America,
                    1920–1945. By Robert L. Dorman. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1993. Pp. xiv, 366. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $45.00.)
            Regionalism has enjoyed a revival of sorts in recent years. A number of universities have established
                    regional study centers, and a stream of books, both popular and scholarly, have appeared on
                    regionalism in America. A new generation of scholars has eagerly substituted region for the frontier
                    process as an organizing principle in western history. But the current regionalism lacks the fire,
                    breadth, and aspirations of the influential cultural movement that preceded it in the 1920s and
                    1930s. Although major aspects of the interwar regionalism are well known, it has not received an
                    encompassing historical interpretation until now.
            
               Revolt of the Provinces, by Robert L. Dorman, maps the highways and byways traveled
                    by artists and intellectuals who perceived the possibilities of regionalism as a restorative
                    response to the blight of industrialism and urbanization on American society and culture. The author
                    charts the intersections of thought and  feeling among all the
                    significant regionalist leaders of the time—novelists, literary critics, artists,
                    historians, folklorists, sociologists, planners, publishers, publicists, and other intellectuals who
                    defy easy classification.
            Dorman interprets regionalism as a critique of American society. He recounts how Lewis Mumford, B. A.
                    Botkin, Howard Odum, Mari Sandoz, Mary Austin, Walter Prescott Webb, and many other cultural
                    luminaries, all distressed by the urbanized, commercialized, mechanized, standardized
                    characteristics of modern society, posed regionalism "as the means toward a richer, freer,
                    and more humane way of life" (p. xii). Thus, in Dorman's view, they sought to
                    "fashion regionalism into a democratic civic religion, a utopian ideology, and a radical
                    politics" (p. xiii).
            Dorman organizes his book accordingly. Regionalism as democratic civic religion is treated in the
                    first part, which includes biographical material on the major participants in the movement, analyzes
                    the effort to fuse Indian and folk materials into American art, and examines the agrarian revolt
                    against modernism. The second part probes the utopian ideology of regionalism, which in
                    Dorman's view illuminates the origins of contemporary multiculturalism. The final part
                    examines the programmatic or political dimension of regionalism in the 1930s and its termination
                    during World War II.
            Although Dorman often writes skillfully, his style tends to be ponderous and sometimes convoluted.
                    His erudition and intelligence is everywhere evident, but these same virtues alert him to possible
                    ambiguities. Apparently driven to clarify his ideas, he jumbles sentences with too many ideas or too
                    much information. His text is cluttered with a plethora of words in quotation marks and plagued with
                    parenthetical explanations.
            But the virtues of this book far outweigh its defects. It is based on research as admirable as it is
                    exhaustive. It offers a useful interpretation of an important but neglected chapter in American
                    cultural history.
            FREDERICK C. LUEBKE is the Charles J. Mach Distinguished
                    Professor of History at the University of 
                        Nebraska
                    -Lincoln. He is a former director of the university's Center for Great Plains
                    Studies. His most recent book is an edited volume, A Harmony of the Arts: The 
                            Nebraska State
                         Capitol (1990).
         
         
            
               The Shaping of America: A Geographical Perspective on 500 Years of History;
                    Volume 2: Continental America, 1800–1867. By D. W. Meinig. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1993. Pp. xix, 636. Maps, illustrations, tables, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $45.00.)
            
               Continental America, the second of four volumes intended to provide a
                    "geographical perspective" on American history, examines  the period 1800–1867. Its author, D. W. Meinig, draws upon
                    works by historians, geographers, political scientists, contemporary observers, and others to
                    synthesize, analyze, and explore new dimensions of that crucial period in American development. The
                    major events and players are included, and the appropriate connections between events and players
                    are made; but the book's focus is less on history and more on the geographic impact of
                    events the players triggered or tried to manage.
            The book is organized into four roughly chronological parts. The first considers the territorial
                    expansion of the 
                        United States
                     after 1800: the unexpected opportunity to purchase 
                        Louisiana
                    ; the pressure applied by the growing empire to its northern, southern, and western
                    borders; accommodations for native peoples; and the establishment by 1867 of a transcontinental 
                        United States
                    . Part two examines settlement (westward migration and immigration), administration
                    (territories to states), and integration (transportation and communication) processes linking the
                    new territorial acquisitions into a growing, proto-industrial nation. The smaller parts three and
                    four contain, respectively, a focus on geographical, geopolitical, and sectional tensions preceding
                    and during the Civil War and a snapshot of the 
                        United States
                     circa 1867.
            Meinig includes the approaches typically taken by geographers. He applies a conceptual framework that
                    he developed years ago—"center" (
                        Boston
                     to 
                        Baltimore
                    ), "core" (extensions to Buffalo and 
                        Pittsburgh
                    ), "domain" (Old Northwest and Old Southwest), and
                    "sphere" (Great Plains and beyond)—to the "Geographical
                    Morphology" of the 
                        United States
                     in 1860 (pp. 418–28). Standard concepts are viewed through a
                    geographer's glasses, and common generalizations are clarified. According to Meinig,
                    American nationalism developed without the normally expected ethnic, cultural, religious, and
                    educational uniformity, but the 
                        United States
                     still functioned as a nation because of commercial market and transportation and
                    communication systems (pp. 399–415). Meinig further stresses that "American
                    expansionism must not be viewed as simply a great westward movement &
                    [but] as a powerful outward movement, putting pressure on the borderlands to the
                    north and south as well as thrusting westward, and ranging out to sea" (p. 169).
            Old maps, new maps, and contemporary lithographs, drawings, and paintings are sprinkled liberally
                    throughout the book. Charts of concepts, such as Turnerian and alternative development models (pp.
                    260–63), or of events, such as the achievement of statehood (p. 4491, assist the reader.
                    Meinig assembled a vast range of source materials for the book. Direct quotations are cited by page
                    at the back of the book, and a massive bibliography lists the sources of information.
            Readers of the Indiana Magazine of History will be particularly pleased to note
                    that the Old Northwest regularly appears in the  book with the
                    formation of Indiana and the establishment of 
                        Indianapolis
                     receiving special treatment on pages 441–45. One could, in fact, quibble
                    about the weight given to particular topics or regions or about occasional sections, such as the
                    discussion of imperial territories (pp. 172–75) or modes of expansion (pp.
                    204–2091, in which pedantry interrupts the narrative. The overwhelming result, however,
                    is wonderful synthesis and thorough analysis. Continental America simply expands
                    Meinig's already secure reputation and, by association, enhances that of historical
                    geography.
            GREGORY S. ROSE, a historical geographer, has as his
                    research focus the population origins of and migration patterns to the Old Northwest before 1850. He
                    has published three articles about Indiana's patterns in the Indiana Magazine
                        of History. He is professor of geography, The Ohio State University at 
                        Marion
                    .
         
         
            
               American Home Life, 1880–1930: A Social History of Spaces and
                    Services. Edited by Jessica H. Foy and Thomas J. Schlereth. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 1992. Pp. [xi], 284. Illustrations, notes, index. $34.95.)
            While "home" as a place is individual, in terms of activities and symbols it seems
                    nigh universal if not changeless. A town or farm family circa 1500 transported into a similar
                    setting in America circa 1800 or even 1850 would likely have felt basically "at
                    home." By 1900, however, such would not have been the case. In less than a century
                    industrial and social revolutions profoundly transformed what "home" meant and
                    was. How and why the transformation occurred are the foci of this introductory book.
            The book's origin, a 1989 conference on house history, explains both its essay format and an
                    overall style that deftly blends broad appeal, informality, and scholarship. An introductory essay
                    previews the other eleven by providing an overview of the purposes and methodologies of studying
                    house history. That study and the body of the book itself are divided into three broad areas:
                    "Room Life," "Home Life," and "Keeping House."
            The five essays grouped under "Room Life" examine how changes in the meaning of
                    "home" reflect changes in the use, decoration, and even the existence of rooms
                    themselves. Among the better examples are the evolutions of parlors into living rooms, bedrooms from
                    sleeping spaces into personal spaces, and servants' quarters into family quarters. The
                    overlapping social and technological "whys" of these changes are the binding
                    threads.
            The social threads become dominant in the "Home Life" section as the focus shifts
                    from architecture to activities. The changes in how families played together, prayed together, and
                    landscaped their homes are the specific topics. Fittingly, these essays, especially the one on the
                    home as sacred space, are among the book's most 
                    analytical. It is also here that the sensitive reader will be most aware that
                    "middle-class" should be part of the book's title.
            In the last section, "Keeping House," the technological threads dominate. How
                    houses and housework were modernized—the interdependent arrival of modern utilities and
                    modern appliances—and the resultant shift from a producer to a consumer society are the
                    major foci. A minor theme is the way in which that whirlwind modernization impacted the ability to
                    create and control the real and symbolic entity called "home."
            
               American Home Life is an important book mostly because it is a first one. Students
                    of domestic history, architecture, material culture, or any other related field should find it an
                    enjoyable stimulus to their own ideas, research, and perhaps their own books.
            WILLIAM LAWRENCE is the conservator at Wylie House, home
                    of Indiana University's first president. Built in 1835, it is now maintained as a house
                    museum.
         
         
            
               The Neck of the Bottle: George W. Goethals and the Reorganization of the U.S. Army
                        Supply System, 1917–1918. By Phyllis A. Zimmerman. (College Station: 
                        Texas
                     A&M University Press, 1992. Pp. 201. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $39.50.)
            When the 
                        United States
                     went to war in 1917, it was ill prepared to participate in a major European war, and
                    the hurried measures taken could not make up for the years of neglect. The demands of modern
                    industrial warfare required well-trained, equipped, and balanced forces supported by an adequate
                    logistic system, and these are not created overnight. In the end the 
                        United States
                     managed to raise and transport to Europe a huge American Expeditionary Force (AEF),
                    which from the summer of 1918 on arguably provided a major element in the allied victory over the
                    Central Powers; but it was numbers and enthusiasm and not better training or weapons that made the
                    difference. To the end of the war American troops overseas relied heavily on allied weapons and
                    supply.
            Characterized by Phyllis A. Zimmerman as "a near catastrophic breakdown" (p. 81,
                    the supply situation in the winter of 1917–1918 became especially critical and demanded
                    reform. President Woodrow Wilson named Bernard Baruch to head the War Industries Board, while
                    Secretary of War Newton D. Baker, no friend of reform, appointed Major General Peyton C. March as
                    chief of staff and recalled George W. Goethals, a West Point graduate and former regular army
                    officer, from retirement. In turn March instructed Goethals to consolidate War Department logistics
                    into a single purchase, storage, and traffic division.
            Goethals, who had achieved his considerable reputation supervising construction of the Panama Canal,
                    was unable to achieve  fully the hoped for results. Even so, from
                    the summer of 1918 on, there was some improvement; and if the war had continued into 1919, the
                    combined efforts of Baruch, March, and Goethals most probably would have contributed substantially
                    to the combat effectiveness of the AEF. Nonetheless, the author believes—contrary to some
                    historians' opinions—that Goethals, with only limited authority, had at best
                    limited success. Mired down fighting established interests, i.e., the
                    army's bureaus, in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , he "did not produce a managerial revolution in six months" (p. 151);
                    and although he was not a complete failure, he left no lasting institutional results on the
                    army's supply system. Still, the army did learn much from the shortcomings of its efforts
                    during World War I and from the mid-1920s on took steps to improve and restructure its procurement
                    and logistic posture.
            This well-crafted monograph, based on research conducted at the Center for Military History in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , combines archival with printed and secondary sources in an exemplary fashion. The
                    author exhibits a fine grasp of the main issues, and her clearly written book makes a valuable
                    contribution to an often neglected topic on the American experience during World War I.
            GUNTHER E. ROTHENBERG, former editor of the Indiana Military History Journal, teaches European and American military history at Purdue
                    University, 
                        West Lafayette
                    , Indiana.
         
         
            
               General Walter Bedell Smith as Director of Central Intelligence, October
                        1950-February 1953. By Ludwell Lee Montague. (University Park: 
                        Pennsylvania State
                     University Press, 1992. Pp. xxviii, 308. Illustration, notes, figures, index.
                    Clothbound, $45.00; paperbound, $14.95.)
            
               The Chief of Staff: The Military Career of General Walter Bedell Smith. By D. K.
                    R. Crosswell. (
                        New York
                    : Greenwood Press, 1991. Pp. xxii, 437. Maps, illustrations, charts, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $59.95.)
            "Beetle" Smith played a major role in the US. victory in Europe in World War II and
                    in the shaping of US. policy in the Cold War that followed, yet his enormous contributions were
                    overshadowed by the towering historical figures that he so loyally served. These two books by D. K.
                    R. Crosswell and Ludwell Lee Montague fill an important gap in detailing the significant
                    contributions of this talented military officer. As secretary of the general staff under Chief of
                    Staff General George C. Marshall during 1941–1942 and as General Dwight D.
                    Eisenhower's chief of staff from 1942 to 1945, Smith was what Eisenhower called the
                    "general manager" of the Allied victory over 
                        Italy
                     and 
                        Germany
                     (Montague, p. 6). Lieutenant General Smith served as ambassador to Moscow from 1946 to
                    1949, and  in September, 1950, President Harry S Truman
                    personally selected Smith, now with four stars, to head the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Smith
                    concluded his government career as under secretary of state from 1953 to 1954.
            Smith was born in 1895 in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . At age sixteen, while still a student at Manual High School, he joined the Indiana
                    National Guard. With the U.S. entry into World War I in 1917, he began reserve officers'
                    training at Fort Benjamin Harrison. Like many other so-called ninety-day wonders, Second Lieutenant
                    Smith went to 
                        France
                     as an infantry platoon leader. He was wounded and reassigned to the War Department
                    General Staff in 
                        Washington
                    . When the war ended, he received a regular Army commission.
            Crosswell's study chronicles Smith's rise through the ranks and also traces the
                    reforms in U.S. military staff structure during his career. Smith worked his way into
                    Marshall's inner circle. He became the indispensable manager of daily details and freed
                    Marshall to concentrate on grand strategy. In 1942 Eisenhower convinced Marshall that he had to have
                    Smith's organizational skills in Europe. Eisenhower declared Smith a
                    "Godsend" to the Allied effort (Montague, p. 6). Smith was at the peak of his
                    public service, according to Crosswell, when he came home to a hero's welcome in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in June, 1945. Smith grew bitter, however, because he never became chief of staff as
                    did his mentor, Marshall, who had also risen in the Army without starting at West Point.
            Montague confirms Smith's personal frustration, but he argues that Smith's
                    twenty-eight months (Crosswell inexplicably says seventeen months) as head of the CIA shaped that
                    agency for the next twenty years. Montague's book is the second internal CIA history to be
                    declassified and released. It characterizes the general as the first successful director of central
                    intelligence (DCI). Smith invigorated the organization, made coordinated national intelligence a
                    reality, and established the DCI as the president's principal intelligence adviser.
                    Montague provides virtually no information on substantive issues during Smith's tenure,
                    such as the U.S. failure to anticipate 
                        China
                    's entrance into the Korean War and the CIA'S clandestine involvement
                    in 
                        Iran
                    . These topics may be covered in the pages deleted from the text during the
                    declassification process.
            Smith's manner was abrupt and authoritarian. He complemented the congenial Eisenhower, but
                    Crosswell suggests that Eisenhower exploited Smith. Political scientist Fred Greenstein has pointed
                    out that Eisenhower's "hidden hand" leadership style was purposeful and
                    effective. Crosswell contends that Eisenhower used Smith as his "hatchet man" (p.
                    266). Thus the supreme commander emerged as a popular hero, and Smith was stuck with the image of a
                    martinet. Having worked closely with Smith at the CIA, Montague views Smith's
                    "irritable impatience" as a calculated  style,
                    which was instinctive but also balanced by kindness, good humor, and diplomatic grace (p. 9).
                    Together, these books present a sympathetic portrait of the man Winston Churchill called
                    "the American bulldog" (Montague, p. 9).
            DAVID L. ANDERSON is professor of history at the
                    University of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . His book, Trapped by Success: The Eisenhower Administration and 
                            Vietnam
                        , 1953––1961 (1991), received the Robert H. Ferrell Book
                    Prize from the Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations. His most recent book is Shadow on the White House: Presidents and the 
                            Vietnam
                         War, 1945–1975 (1993).
         
         
            
               Gilbert N. Haugen: Norwegian-American Farm Politician. By Peter T. Harstad and
                    Bonnie Lindemann. (
                        Iowa City
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    , 1992. Pp. xi, 217. Notes, maps, illustrations, appendixes, tables, index.
                    $14.95.)
            The collaborative efforts of Peter T. Harstad and Bonnie Lindemann have produced a superb (and long
                    overdue) biography of a significant figure in agricultural history. Gilbert N. Haugen's
                    role in the McNary-Haugen movement is clearly portrayed in this well-researched and well-written
                    biography of a dedicated farm politician from 
                        Iowa
                    .
            Haugen was proud of his Norwegian heritage, loved the land, and exemplified by his actions the work
                    ethic to which he subscribed. Before he became a seventeen-term member of the 
                        United States
                     House of Representatives (1899–1933), Haugen had been, variously, a farm
                    laborer, horse trader, merchant, land agent, banker, and owner of many farms. His political
                    apprenticeship included experience as GOP county chairman, justice of the peace, and 
                        Iowa state
                     legislator. It was after his election to Congress that he dedicated himself to becoming
                    a spokesman for the American farmer.
            Congressman Haugen was an admirer of President Theodore Roosevelt and gave his support to much of the
                    Square Deal. While not committed ideologically to progressivism, Haugen did favor federal
                    intervention to foster the well-being of the rural sector. Whereas he was conservative relative to
                    agrarian, small-town values, Haugen was realistic about adapting to change and foresaw the need for
                    more positive government. His real crusade was McNary-Haugenism. As chairman of the House
                    Agriculture Committee he joined with his counterpart in the Senate, Charles McNary of 
                        Oregon
                    , to sponsor a bill that would involve federal intervention on behalf of commercial
                    farmers. The proposal, twice vetoed by President Calvin Coolidge, would have established a federal
                    export corporation to implement a two-price system by dumping surplus agricultural commodities
                    abroad. Farmers were to receive an equalization fee that would sustain farm income in the same
                    manner that the tariff aided industry. In retrospect the plan was economically  unworkable and overlooked the harsh realities of international trade.
            Haugen's involvement in farm legislation throughout the 1920s made him nationally known
                    among rural leaders. His cooperation with the bipartisan Farm Bloc helped him forge a Southern
                    Democrat/Western-Midwestern Republican coalition that continued to grow in political strength in the
                    1930s. The authors see Haugen as a link between the older progressives and the rising generation of
                    rural leaders (such as 
                        Iowa
                    's Henry A. Wallace) who would become zealous advocates of federal management
                    of agriculture. As a lame duck member of Congress in 1933 Haugen did support the domestic allotment
                    plan (the heart of the New Deal's Agricultural Adjustment Act), but its production control
                    features were beyond his political vision. Haugen's legacy was that of McNary-Haugenism
                    which, as the authors point out, "was an important part of the story of agricultural
                    organization in the 
                        United States
                    " (p. 203).
            EDWARD L. SCHAPSMEIER has coauthored a two-volume
                    biography of Henry A. Wallace (1968, 1970), a one-volume study of Ezra Taft Benson (1975), and the
                        Encyclopedia of American Agricultural History (1975).
         
         
            
               Jessamyn West, Revised Edition. By Alfred S. Shivers. (
                        New York
                    : Twayne Publishers, 1992. Pp. xvi, 171. Notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $21.95.)
            Jessamyn West was born near 
                        North Vernon
                    , Indiana, in 1902 of 
                        Quaker
                     parents who removed to 
                  Los Angeles County,
                            California
               , when she was seven. She
                    graduated from Whittier College, married, and attended the University of 
                        California
                     until tuberculosis ended her advanced work in English literature but gave leisure in
                    convalescence to write. Her fiction examined both regions in which she had lived, but she first
                    achieved widespread attention with the artful tales of a Hoosier Quaker family recounted in The Friendly Persuasion (1945). Indiana figured in much of her subsequent writing,
                    notably in her best seller, The Massacre at 
                            Fall Creek
                        
                (1975), praised by Alfred S. Shivers for its flavor of "rugged
                    frontier life" (p. 78). West revisited Indiana to research, lecture, and receive numerous
                    awards, including Indiana University's doctorate of Humane Letters (1959).
            Shivers states in the preface of this handbook that he "wanted to make it better organized
                    and more readable" (p. viii) than his first study of West, which was published in 1972. To
                    this end he has drawn on further research (including recent interviews with West's husband,
                    Dr. Harry Maxwell McPherson) to reconsider her earlier work and to summarize and evaluate the
                    additional books she produced before her death in 1984. A chronology and extensive critical notes
                    and documentation, often based on the author's correspondence with West, enhance the value
                    of this work.
            
            There are occasional slips: in 
                        Leafy Rivers
                     (1967), the protagonist, Leafy, is from Blue Glass, not Blue Grass, 
                        Ohio
                     (p. 68); Dr. Daubenheyer does not deliver "our heroine's
                    baby" (p. 71) but arrives after the birth. Shivers is fond of literary allusions, some less
                    illuminating than distracting. For example, he characterizes Cornelius in South of the
                        Angels (1960) as "sharply sensitive to the delights of sensory impressions
                    & almost as if he had perused and taken to heart Walter Pater's concluding advice
                    in The Renaissance on the necessity to collect, treasure, and luxuriate in what
                    Pater terms ‘this fruit of quickened, multiplied consciousness’" (p.
                    104).
            No formal biography of West has yet appeared, though she wrote extensively about her life in
                    articles, somewhat covertly in novels and stories, and candidly in several memoirs. Shivers notes
                    that her "40-plus volumes of journals" (p. 138) and letters remain unpublished. He
                    seems as reluctant as before to accord his subject more than "minor" status as an
                    artist, "several rungs down the ladder of greatness," yet, ambivalently, he
                    declares her "fit company" for so distinguished a writer as Willa Cather (p. 145).
            GEORGE P. CLARK, professor emeritus of English, 
                        Hanover
                     College, 
                        Hanover
                    , Indiana, has edited Into the Old Northwest: Journeys with Charles H.
                        Titus, 1841–1846 (1993).
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Books, Pamphlets, Dissertations, and Other Publications in Indiana History
            Compiled by Leigh Darbee
            
               Editor's Note. This list of articles, books, pamphlets, and dissertations
                    published from 1990 to 1993 is intended as a bibliographic contribution to Indiana's
                    history. The list will normally appear in each March issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. We recognize that the list is neither complete nor systematic in coverage, and we
                    hope that readers will help us by sending items for possible inclusion. We are especially interested
                    in listing publications that make some contribution to understanding Indiana's past but
                    that are not usually reviewed in the IMH. Generally, we will not list newspaper articles or accounts
                    of local historical society activities, but printed pamphlets as well as journal articles may be
                    listed. All such items for the March, 1995, issue must be received by November 1, 1994. Many people
                    have contributed to the present list, but major responsibility has rested with Leigh Darbee of the
                    Indiana Historical Society.
            
               "Amputations in Civil War Necessary to Save Lives," Snakeroot
                            Extract, No. 26 (Autumn, 1993).
               Arnold, Eleanor, "Memories of Hoosier Homemakers," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Fall, 1993).
               Balkema, Richard, "Party Divisiveness, Rule Changes, and Legislative Productivity in
                        the 106th Indiana General Assembly," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXVII, 3rd ser. (1992).
               Beatty, John D., Research in Indiana (
                     Arlington, Va.
                  :
                        National Genealogical Society, 1992).
               Beavers, Addison, The Journey of Addison Beavers ([Indiana?: s.n., 1992]).
               "Behind Bars," Indiana Preservationist (July/August,
                        1992). [Series of articles about jails in Indiana.]
               Bertram, Mike, "A History of 
                            New Castle
                         Utilities in Words and Pictures," 
                     
                                Henry County
                             Historicatalog, XX (Spring, 1992).
               Binford, Tom, A Checkered Past: My 20 Years as Indy 500 Chief Steward
                        (Carmel: Cornerstone Press, 1993).
               "Blackmail at the Harper Buggy Factory, [
                            Columbia City
                        ]," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXX (August, 1992). [Article
                        reprinted from the 
                            Whitley County
                         News of July 3, 1903.]
               Bond, James O., Chickamauga and the Underground Railroad: A Tale of Two
                            Grandfathers (
                            Baltimore
                        : Gateway Press, 1993).
               
               Boomhower, Ray, "Corydon: Indiana's First State Capital," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Summer, 1993).
               Boomhower, Ray, "Dan Quayle Center & Museum: Chronicling the Life of
                        Indiana's Newest Favorite Son," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, V (Fall, 1993).
               Boomhower, Ray, "A ‘Dapper Dan with the Soul of an Imp’: fin
                        Hubbard, Creator of Abe Martin," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, V (Fall, 1993).
               Boomhower, Ray, "The Gen. Lew Wallace Study and Ben-Hur Museum," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Winter, 1993).
               Boomhower, Ray, "Hillforest: The Mansion on the Hill," Traces
                            of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Spring, 1993).
               Boomhower, Ray, "The Hoosier Slide: ‘Monument of Never Ending
                        Sand,’" Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V
                        (Spring, 1993).
               Boomhower, Ray, "Major General Lew Wallace: Savior of 
                            Washington, D.C.
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Winter,
                        1993).
               Boomhower, Ray, "‘Nobody Wanted Us’: Black Aviators at Freeman
                        Field," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Summer, 1993).
               Bourne, Russell, Floating West: The 
                                Erie
                             and Other American Canals (
                            New York
                        : Norton, 1992).
               Bowers, Shirley H., "‘Captured on Canvas’:
                        McKenney-Hall's History of the Indian Tribes of North America," 
                     
                                Florida
                             Historical Quarterly, LXXI (January, 1993).
               Brewer, Fredric, "
                            Rushville
                        's Dog Fennel Gazette: Indiana's Mythical
                        Newspaper," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIX (March, 1993).
               Brothers, Timothy S., and Lisa M. Kennedy, "The Changing Geography of Vegetation
                        Placenames in the Indiana 
                            Prairie
                         Border Region," Names, XL (March, 1992).
               
                  The 
                                Brown
                             Section in Review (
                     Marceline, Mo.
                  : Heritage
                        House Publishing, 1992). [Uses photographs from the Martin Collection, now at the Indiana
                        Historical Society, originally used in the "
                            Brown
                         Section" of the 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune-Star.] Order from: History Book Offer, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Tribune-Star, P.O. Box 149, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , IN 47808.
               Bruns, Roger A., Preacher: Billy Sunday and Big-Time American Evangelism (
                            New York
                        : Norton, 1992).
               Bundles, A'Lelia P., "Madam C. J. Walker, 1867–1919,"
                            Hayes Historical Journal, XII (Fall, 1992/Winter, 1993).
               Bundy, Alice Ann, A Glimpse of Pioneer Life in 
                                Jennings County
                            
                   (Vernon: 
                            Jennings County
                         Preservation Association, 1992).
               Bussel, Michael Robert, "Hard Traveling: Powers Hapgood, Harvey Swados, Bayard
                        Rustin, and the Fate of Independent Radicalism  in Twentieth
                        Century America" (Ph.D. dissertation, Cornell University, 1993).
               Callen, Barry L., Guide to Soul and Mind: The Story of Anderson University
                        (Anderson: Anderson University, 1992).
               Calloway, Colin G., "Native American History and the Search for Common
                        Ground," Reviews in American History, XX (December, 1992). [Review of
                        Richard White's The Middle Ground: Indians, Empires, and Republics in the
                            Great Lakes Region, 1650–1815.]
               Cantrell, Martha, "[Henry] Lane's Acquaintance with Henry Boese
                        Exp[l]ored," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVIII (April, 1993).
               Cantrell, Martha, "Misadventures and the Heaton Letters," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVII (December, 1992).
               Cantrell, Martha, "Susan Wallace Writes of Experiences in Turkey," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVIII (March, 1993).
               Carringer, Robert L., The Magnificent Ambersons: A Reconstruction (Berkeley:
                        University of 
                            California
                         Press, 1993). [Reconstruction of the movie script as originally written by Orson
                        Welles.]
               Cart, David, "History Blooms at the J. F. D. Lanier Garden," Outdoor Indiana, LVIII (March/April, 1993).
               Castaldi, Tom, "Potawatomi Culture Beckons through Wabash
                        Valley's Cicott Mill," Outdoor Indiana, LVIII
                        (March/April, 1993).
               Cayton, Andrew R. L., "‘Separate Interests’ and the
                        Nation-State: The 
                            Washington
                         Administration and the Origins of Regionalism in the Trans-Appalachian
                        West," Journal of American History, LXXIX (June, 1992).
               
                  Celestine, Indiana: A Sesquicentennial History ([St. Meinrad: Abbey Press,
                        1993]).
               Childs, Ann Waybright, "A Hoosier Goes West: The Diaries and Letters of David Wallace
                        Springer," Wyoming Annals, LXV (Spring, 1993).
               Citron, Stephen, Noel and Cole: The Sophisticates (
                            New York
                        : Oxford University Press, 1993). [Noel Coward and Cole Porter.]
               Clark, George P., "The Dunking of General Cass: A Hoosier Myth," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Spring, 1993).
               Conway, W. Fred, The Incredible Adventures of Daniel Boone's Kid
                            Brother—Squire (
                            New Albany
                        : FBH Publishers, 1992). Order from: Fire Buff House, P. O. Drawer 709, 
                            New Albany
                        , IN 47151.
               Coon, Dave, "Teaching in the Early Days Was Not an Easy Life," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVIII (January, 1993).
               Cox, Stephen L., "Back to the 1820s: The Re-restoration [of the William Conner
                        House]," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Winter, 1993).
               
               Cox, Stephen L., "New Life: Eli Lilly and the First Restoration [of the Conner
                        House]," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Winter, 1993).
               Cox, Stephen L., and Timothy Crumrin, eds., Building a Home, Preserving a
                            Heritage: The Story of the Conner House ([Fishers: Conner Prairie], 1993).
               Crumrin, Timothy, "Between Two Worlds: William Conner of Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Winter, 1993).
               Culbertson, Kurt, "The Origins of Landscape Architecture in 
                            Ohio
                        : The Life and Work of George Edward Kessler," Queen City
                            Heritage, LI (Spring, 1993). [Includes references to Kessler's work in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Cwiklik, Robert, Tecumseh: Shawnee Rebel (
                            New York
                        : Chelsea House Publishers, 1993).
               Darbee, Leigh, "Jefferson and 
                            Jeffersonville
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Summer,
                        1993).
               Davis, Marsh, "Eclectic Style Has Diversity in Common," Indiana
                            Preservationist (July/August, 1992).
               Davis, Rodney O., "William Herndon's Indiana Oral History Project,
                        1865," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIX (June, 1993).
               Dean, Arnold, comp., The Cemeteries of 
                                Wayne County
                            , Indiana (
                     Richmond:
                                Wayne County
                   Genealogical Society, 1992).
                        Order from: 
                            Wayne County
                         Genealogical Society, 1150 N. A St., 
                            Richmond
                        , IN 47374.
               
                  Deceased Priests: Diocese of 
                                Lafayette
                             in Indiana. 3rd ed. ([Indiana]: Fr. Anthony Prosen, 1992). Order from: Fr.
                        Anthony Prosen, Newman Center for Catholic Students, 1200 W. Riverside Ave., 
                            Muncie
                        , IN 47303.
               Divita, James J., Rejoice and Remember: A Centennial History of the Catholic
                            Community of St. Anthony of Padua (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Centennial Committee, St. Anthony Parish, 1992). Order from: The author, Dept. of
                        History, Marian College, 3200 Cold Spring Rd., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46222.
               Duncan, Rita C., and Stella Fox, Scipio Township's Early History
                        ([Indiana: R. C. Duncan], 1992).
               Dunne, Robert, "A Plea for a Protestant American Dream: Lyman
                        Beecher's A Plea for the West," The Old Northwest, XVI
                        (Fall, 1992).
               "Efforts Are Underway to Maintain Indiana's Remaining Round Barns," 
                            Fulton County
                         Historical Society Quarterly Newsletter, II (December, 1992).
                        [Reprint of article in The Sentinel / The Compass (
                            Rochester
                        ), June 17, 1992.]
               Einstandig, Max, "The Beginning of the Indiana Jewish Historical Society,"
                            Indiana Jewish History, No. 29 (1993).
               
               Eley, Gloria, "In Honor of Black History Month, Visit These Historic
                        Landmarks," Outdoor Indiana, LVII (January/ February, 1992).
               "Encore, Encore," Indiana Preservationist (March/April,
                        1992). [Circle Theatre, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; Thrall Opera House, 
                            New Harmony
                        ; Pulse Opera House, 
                            Warren
                        .]
               Everson, Guy R., ed., "Service Afield and Afloat: A Reminiscence of the Civil
                        War," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIX (March, 1993).
               Ewald, Erich L., "Beacon of Death: The Interurban Disaster at Alfont, 1924,"
                            
                     
                                Madison County
                             Monthly (June, 1992).
               Ewald, Erich L., "The Birth and Near-Death of St. John's Lutheran Church,
                        [Anderson]," 
                     
                                Madison County
                             Monthly (May, 1993).
               Ewald, Erich L., "Crossroads' Civil War Letters," 
                     
                                Middletown
                             News (April, 1992).
               Ewald, Erich L., "Ewald's More or Less Official but Woefully Incomplete
                        Guide to [Nineteenth Century] 
                            Madison County
                         Elections," 
                     
                                Madison County
                             Monthly (November, 1992).
               Ewald, Erich L., ed., "‘& The True Definition of War’:
                        The Civil War Diary of DeWitt C. Markle," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, LXXXIX (June, 1993).
               Failey, Majie Alford, Forgive Us Our Press Passes: A Society Editor's
                            Prayer (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press of Indiana, 1992). Order from: Guild Press of Indiana, 6000 Sunset
                        Ln., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46208.
               Fay, Mary Smith, "The Rappites and the Saltzman Family: A Communal Society's
                        Influence on a Frontier Family," The American Genealogist, LXVI
                        (October, 1991).
               Fisher, James, "Oedipus at 
                            Crawfordsville
                        : Early Productions of Greek Tragedies in Indiana," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LXXXIX (March, 1993).
               Flynn, David A., "There's No Place Like Home: A History of the Halls of
                        Residence Libraries at Indiana University, Blooming-ton," Indiana
                            Libraries, XII (1993).
               Fortune, Peter, The Fortune Family of 
                                Indianapolis
                            : From 
                                Virginia
                             to 
                                Massachusetts
                            
                   (
                     Weston, Mass.
                  : Nobb Hill Press, 1993).
               Fuller, Wayne E., "Everybody's Business: The Midwestern One-Room
                        School," Timeline, X (September/October, 1993).
               Gates, Benton Earl, "Memories of a Prosecutor," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXI (August, 1993).
               Gates, Benton Earl, "Tri-Lakes [Resort]," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXI (June, 1993).
               Gates, Benton Earl, "Weatherhead [Corporation, 
                            Columbia City
                        ]," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXI (April, 1993).
               "Get to Work," Indiana Preservationist (January/February,
                        1993). [Coca Cola Bottling Co., 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; Hulman & Co., Terre  Haute; Old Bag
                        Factory, 
                            Goshen
                        ; Colgate-Palmolive Plant, Clarksville.]
               Gibbs, Wilma L., "African-American Businesses in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1870–1950," Black History News &
                        Notes, No. 51 (February, 1993).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "Indiana Association of Colored Men," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 52 (May, 1993).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L., et al.],"
                                Indianapolis
                             Recorder: A Historical Overview of a Community Institution," Black History News & Notes, No. 52 (May, 1993).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "Inside the Heart of a Cardiologist: The Harvey N. Middleton
                        Collection," Black History News & Notes, No. 53 (August,
                        1993).
               Ginger, Ray, The Bending Cross: A Biography of Eugene Victor Debs
                                (
                     Kirksville, Mo.
                  : Thomas Jefferson University Press, 1992). [Reprint
                        edition, with a new introduction by J. Robert Constantine.]
               "The 
                            Greensboro
                         of Long Ago," 
                     
                                Henry County
                             Historicatalog, XXI (Spring/Summer, 1993). [New version of Fassett
                        Hinshaw's 1919 history.]
               Gregorich, Barbara, "Women in Baseball: Indiana's Dynamic
                        Heritage," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Spring,
                        1993).
               Griffin, Frederick P., comp., History of Corydon & 
                                Harrison County
                            
                  . Vol. II ([Corydon: Griffin, 1993]). Order from: Griffin's, Inc.,
                        Box 446, Corydon, IN 47112.
               Griffin, T. Kevin, "The 1st Irish, 35th Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment,
                        1861–1865: A Military, Political, and Social History" (M.A. thesis, Butler
                        University, 1992).
               Grove, Helen E., 
                     
                                Frankfort
                            , Indiana: A Pictorial History (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing, 1992). Order from: G. Bradley Publishing, 461 Des Peres
                        Rd., 
                     St. Louis, MO
                   63131.
               Haffner, Gerald O., "A Peek at Indiana's Pioneer Period through the Estate
                        of Adam Wible," Filson Club History Quarterly, LXVII (July, 1993).
               Halberstam, David, "Discovering Sex," American Heritage,
                        XLIV (February/March, 1993). [Includes information on Alfred C. Kinsey.]
               Hamrick, Burt, "Horn Carving: Tansel Family Carves a Niche," Outdoor Indiana, LVIII (January/February, 1993).
               Hendershot, Steve, 
                     
                                Putnam County
                             Memories: A Pictorial History of the Area Served by the Banner Graphic ([
                            Greencastle
                        ?: Banner Graphic?, 1993?]). Order from: Banner
                            Graphic, Pictorial History Book, P. O. Box 509, 
                            Greencastle
                        , IN 46135. Hendricks County, Indiana, Source Book (
                            Danville
                        : 
                            Hendricks County
                         Historical Society, 1993). Order from: Hendricks  County Historical Society, 170 S. Washington St., 
                            Danville
                        , IN 46122.
               Herrin, Margaret Duvall, On the Road to Centennial: In Celebration of the 100th
                            Anniversary of the Allisonville Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), [
                                Indianapolis
                            ], 1896–1996 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Church, 1991).
               Higbee, Mark David, "W. E. B. Du Bois, F. B. Ransom, the Madam Walker Company, and
                        Black Business Leadership in the 1930s," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXXIX (June, 1993).
               Higgs, Steven, "George Donaldson: Spring Mill's Eccentric
                        Naturalist," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Summer,
                        1993).
               Hill, John, "Indiana on Ice: How Glaciers Shaped the Hoosier Landscape," Outdoor Indiana, LVIII (November/December, 1992).
               "Histology Laboratory Aided Study of Mental Illness," Snakeroot
                            Extract, No. 24 (Summer, 1992). [Laboratory in Pathology Building at Central State
                        Hospital, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               
                  Historic Indiana: A Guide to Indiana Properties Listed in the National Register
                            of Historic Places ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: Indiana Dept. of Natural Resources, Div. of Historic Preservation and Archeology,
                        1993).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                        Decatur, Perry
                      and 
                                Franklin
                             Townships, 
                                Marion County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 1992). Order this and the following
                        seven titles from: HLFI, 340 W. Michigan St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46202.
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Grant County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1993).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Henry County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1993).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Lawrence County: Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1992).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Morgan County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1993).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Shelby County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1992).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Warren
                             Township, 
                                Marion County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1993).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Wayne
                             Township, 
                                Marion County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1993).
               
                  History of 
                                Dearborn
                             and 
                                Ohio
                             Counties, Indiana (
                            Mt. Vernon
                        : Windmill Publications, Inc., 1993). [Reprint of 1885 edition, with index added.]
                        Order from: Windmill Publications, Inc., 4400 Jackson Ave., 
                            Evansville
                        , IN 47714.
               
               
                  History of 
                                Greene County
                            , Indiana, 1885–1989 (
                     Bloomfield: Greene County
                  
                        Historical Society, 1990). Order from: 
                            Greene County
                         Historical Society, P. O. Box 301, 
                            Bloomfield
                        , IN 47424.
               Holt, Marilyn Irvin, "West to Indiana on the Orphan Trains," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Fall, 1993).
               Holtmann, Heike, "Deutsche Amerika-Auswanderung im 19 Jahrhundert: Jakob Schramm
                        (1805–1850)" (M.A. thesis, Freie Universität, Berlin, 1992).
               Homann, W. Charles, Jr., A Boy from 
                                Bloomington
                            : A Personal Memoir of the Great Depression ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : Homannl, 1993).
               Hoppe, David, "Moon Valley," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Spring, 1993).
               Hunter, Juanita, "
                            Marshall County
                         and the 
                            Michigan
                         Road," 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, XXII (1993). [Continuation of
                        series of articles beginning with Vol. XX, No. 2 (1991).]
               "Hydropathy Offered Patients ‘Water-Cure’ Therapies,"
                            Snakeroot Extract, No. 25 (Fall, 1992).
               "In Memoriam: The Potawatomi Trail of Death—1838," 
                            Fulton County
                         Historical Society Newsletter, II (June, 1992).
               "Indiana Landmarks Threatened with Extinction," Indiana
                            Preservationist (May/June, 1992). [Indiana Oxygen Co., 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; Wabash High School, 
                            Wabash
                        ; Entomology Hall, Purdue University; Valley House, 
                            Brookville
                        .]
               Jacobs, Tevie, "When the Cincy R. R. Excursions Helped Hold the Jewish Families
                        Together," Indiana Jewish History, No. 29 (1993).
               Jakle, John A., "Toward a Geographical History of Indiana: Landscape and Place in the
                        Historical Imagination," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIX
                        (September, 1993).
               
                  Jefferson Proving Ground: Supporting Our Troops for 50 Years! (
                            Madison
                        : U. S. Army Ammunition Test Center, [1991?]).
               Johnson, Bruce L., "The Ayres Look of Elegance," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Winter, 1993).
               Johnson, Leon, Syria Christian Church, 1820–1992 ([Orleans?:
                        s.n.], 1993.
               Kash, Steve, and Ginger Snyder, "A Battle from Both Sides: Two Takes on 
                            Tippecanoe
                        ," Outdoor Indiana, LVIII (January/February, 1993).
               "Kil-So-Quah," The Hoosier Genealogist, XXXII (December,
                        1992). [Last full blood Miami Indian in Indiana.]
               Kotzbauer, Amy, "Architect's Style at Home on the ‘
                            Prairie
                        ,’" Indiana Preservationist (March/April,
                        1992). [
                            Prairie
                         Style and Frank Lloyd Wright houses in Indiana.]
               Lafever, Carolyn, The Murals by Charles Newcomb: A Story of 
                                Hagerstown
                            , Indiana (
                            Hagerstown
                        : Lafever, 1993). Order from: The author, 14030 W. Oler Rd., 
                            Hagerstown
                        , IN 47346.
               
               Lane, James B., ed., "Home Front: The World War II Years in the Calumet Region,
                        1941–1945," Steel Shavings, XXII (1993).
               Langhor, John, "Early 
                            Whitley County
                         Doctors," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXI (June, 1993).
               Latham, Charles, Jr., "Henry J. Richardson Papers," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 51 (February, 1993).
               Latham, Charles, Jr., "‘Keeping Up the Skeer’: A Letter from
                        Nathan Bedford Forrest," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V
                        (Fall, 1993).
               Lingeman, Richard, "The Titan," American Heritage, XLIV
                        (May/June, 1993). [Theodore Dreiser.]
               Loomis, Linn, Here and Now—
                     
                                Ohio
                            's Canals: The Background of 
                                Ohio
                            's Canal System (
                     Newcomerstown, Ohio
                  : The
                        Author, 1991). Order from: The author, 59821 Co. Rd. 9, Newcomers-town, OH 43832.
               McCullough, David, "Fighting Chance: Harry Truman's Midwestern Whistle-stop
                        Campaign," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Summer,
                        1993).
               Madden, Sr. Mary Roger, The Path Marked Out: History of the Sisters of 
                                Providence
                             of 
                                St. Mary-of-the-Woods
                            , Indiana. Vol. III, 1890–1926 (
                            St. Mary-of-the-Woods
                        : Sisters of 
                            Providence
                        , 1991).
               Mahar-Keplinger, Lisa, Grain Elevators (
                     New York: Princeton
                  
                        Architectural Press, 1993).
               Markisohn, Deborah Ballee, "Ministers of the Nan: 
                            Indianapolis
                         Clergy Involvement with the 1920s Ku Klux Klan (M.A. thesis, Indiana University,
                        1992).
               Meaney, John W., O'Malley of Notre Dame
                  
                            (Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press,
                        1991).
               Meier, Marga, trans., Swiss Colonization Society Records in German: A Translation
                            Project (
                     Utica, Ky.
                  : McDowell Publications, 1990).
               Meyers, Arthur S., "Individual Lives Speak History: The Jewish Community in Northwest
                        Indiana," Indiana Jewish History, No. 29 (1993).
               Millett, Kate, The Basement: Meditations on a Human Sacrifice (
                            New York
                        : Simon & Schuster, 1991). [The Sylvia Likens case in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Mobley, Gregory H., Markers of Graves, Mirrors of Society: A Brief Study of
                            Tombstone Designs and Motifs in Two Southern Indiana Cemeteries ([s.l.: s.n.], 1991).
               "Moores Hill College Lives On," 
                            Ripley County
                         Historical Society Quarterly Bulletin, XVII (April, 1993). [Begun
                        in 
                            Dearborn County
                         in 1854, the college eventually became Evansville College, later University of 
                            Evansville
                        .]
               Moxley, Lucina Ball, All about Sam: The Life Story of Sampson Buchanan Moxley
                        IV (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press of Indiana,  1991). Order from:
                        Guild Press of Indiana, 6000 Sunset Ln., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46208.
               
                  
                     Muncie, Larry
                  , 
                     
                                Irvington
                             Stories ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: 
                            Irvington
                         Historical Society, 1992). Order from: 
                            Irvington
                         Historical Society, 
                            Benton
                         House, 312 S. Downey Ave., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46219.
               Nava, Margaret M., "Climb Aboard and Dream the Dream," Outdoor
                            Indiana, LVII (January/February, 1992). [Brief history of rail travel.]
               Nichols, Wallie, "Garfield Once an Active, Enterprising Village," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVIII (October, 1993).
               Nicholson, Howard L., "Swine, Timber, and Tourism: The Evolution of an Appalachian
                        Community in the Middle West, 1830–1930" (Ph.D. dissertation, Miami
                        University, 
                     Oxford, Ohio
                  , 1992).
               Nobles, Gregory H., "Straight Lines and Stability: Mapping the Political Order of the
                        Anglo-American Frontier," Journal of American History, LXXX (June,
                        1993).
               Norris, Nancy, "Small Town U.S.A.: Alexandria Speaks for America," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Spring, 1993).
               O'Neal, Bill, The American Association: A Baseball History,
                            1902–1991 (Austin, Tex.: Eakin Press, 1991).
               Patrick, Jeffrey L., ed., "‘On Convoy Duty in World War I’: The
                        Diary of Guy Connor," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIX (December,
                        1993).
               Peagler, Victoria M., "Garfield Thomas Haywood, 1880–1931: From a
                        Migrant's Son to an Internationally Renowned Churchman" (B.A. thesis, Wright
                        State University, 1993).
               Peebles, Christopher S., ed., Current Research in Indiana Archaeology and
                            Prehistory, 1990 ([
                            Bloomington
                        ]: Indiana University, Glenn A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology, 1991).
               Peterson Roger A., "Grain Speculation in 
                            Owen County
                        ," Black History News & Notes, No. 52 (May,
                        1993).
               "Pharmacists Used Pill-tiles, Machines," Snakeroot
                        Extract, No. 23 (Spring, 1992).
               Platt, Carolyn V., "Nightmare on the 
                            Mississippi
                        : The New Madrid Earthquakes," Timeline, X
                        (September/October, 1993).
               Quigg, Gary, "Newly-found Photos Shed Light on Interurban Past," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVIII (May, 1993).
               Raben, Rita, St. Wendel Parish and Community, [
                                Evansville
                            ], 1842–1992 (St. Meinrad: Abbey Press, 1991).
               Radford, Darrel, 
                     
                                New Castle
                            , Indiana: A Pictorial History (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing, 1992). Order from: G. Bradley Publishing, 461 Des Peres
                        Rd., 
                     St. Louis, MO
                   63131.
               Ream, Donald and Lynne, Clarks Hill: A Pictorial History of Clarks
                            Hill and Its Surrounding Area ([
                            Lafayette
                        : D. & L. Ream], 1992).
               
               Reese, William J., "Indiana's Best Public School Traditions: Dominant Themes
                        and Research Opportunities," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIX
                        (December, 1993).
               Rettig, Agnes S., A Nonagenarian Reviews the History of the Old Northwest, Her
                            Native State and Hometown ([
                     Muncie:
                                Delaware County
                   Historical Alliance, 1989?]).
                        [Rettig is from 
                            Muncie
                        .] Order from: 
                            Delaware County
                         Historical Alliance, P.O. Box 1266, 
                            Muncie
                        , IN 47308.
               Richardson, Heather Cox, "Constructing ‘the Greatest Nation of the
                        Earth’: Economic Policies of the Republican Party" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                        Harvard University, 1992).
               Ridge, Martin, "Frederick Jackson Turner at Indiana University," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIX (September, 1993).
               Roberts, George C., "Presidential Electors: Obscure, yet Among Us," Indiana
                        Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXVII, 3rd ser. (1992).
               Roberts, George C., "The Vanishing Indiana Ballot," Indiana Academy of the
                        Social Sciences Proceedings, XXVI, 3rd ser. (1991).
               Roberts, Warren E., "Indiana Plane Makers," Midwestern
                        Folklore, XVIII (Spring, 1992).
               Rodriguez, Ginger G., "John C. Templeton: Artist and Steelworker," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Summer, 1993).
               
                  St. Patrick's Church History ([
                            Madison
                        ]: St. Patrick's Bingo Committee, 1992).
               Sajko, Brian P., "Theatre in Utopia: The History of the Theatre in 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana, 1827–1913" (Ph.D. dissertation, Bowling Green State
                        University, 
                     Bowling Green, Ohio
                  , 1993).
               Schlup, Leonard, "Hoosier Republican in the Gilded Age: John K. Gowdy and the 1892
                        Presidential Campaign in Indiana," Tamkang Journal of American
                        Studies, IX (1992).
               Seigel, Peggy Brase, "Moral Champions and Public Pathfinders: Antebellum Quaker Women
                        in East Central Indiana," 
                     
                                Quaker
                             History, LXXXI (Fall, 1992).
               Shriver, Phillip R., "Know Them No More Forever: The Miami Removal of 1846,"
                            Timeline, X (November/December, 1993).
               Silver, James L., "An Oral History of Underground Coal Mining: A Tape-Recorded
                        Interview with a Retired Miner," Midwestern Folklore, XIX (Spring,
                        1993).
               Simbeck, Rob, "How Five Billion Years Shaped an Acre of Ground," Outdoor Indiana, LVIII (March/April, 1993).
               Smith, Harry M., 
                     
                                Connersville
                            , Indiana: A Pictorial History (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing, 1992). Order from: G. Bradley Publishing, 461 Des Peres
                        Rd., 
                     St. Louis, MO
                   63131.
               Smith, Hugh, "Mission Style is 
                            California
                         Dreamin'," Indiana Preservationist
                        (January/February, 1993).
               
               Spetter, Allan, "The Historian (Albert T. Volwiler) and the Presidential Widow (Mrs.
                        Benjamin Harrison): A Twenty Year Correspondence," [Part III, The Old
                            Northwest, XVI (Fall, 1992).
               Stauffer, Michael L., 
                     
                                Hamilton County
                             Remembered: A Pictorial History of 
                                Hamilton County
                            , Indiana (
                     Marceline,
                                Mo.
                  : Heritage House Publishing,
                        1992).
               Stipp, Edith Stout, "Unique Sharpening Stone Industry Founded in Pioneer
                        Days," Society of Indiana Pioneers Yearbook (1992).
               Strayer, Larry M., and Richard A. Baumgartner, Echoes of Battle: The 
                                Atlanta
                             Campaign: An Illustrated Collection of Union and Confederate Narratives
                                (
                     Huntington, W.Va.
                  : Blue Acorn Press, 1991). [Contains information on
                        Indiana regiments in the campaign.] Order from: Blue Acorn Press, P. O. Box 2684,
                                
                     Huntington, WV
                   25726.
               Stritch, Thomas, My Notre Dame: Memories and Reflections of
                            Sixty Years (Notre Dame: University of Notre
                        Dame Press, 1991).
               Stuckey, Clay W., A Collection of Articles about the West Baden Springs
                        Hotel (
                            Bedford
                        : C. W. Stuckey, 1992). [Typescript with original photos at the Indiana Historical
                        Society.]
               Sulgrove, B. R., History of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana ([
                     Salem, Mass.
                  : Higginson Book Co., 1992?]). Reprint
                        edition.
               Sumner, Jim L., "Everett Case Conquers Dixie: Hoosier Basketball in 
                            North Carolina
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Fall,
                        1993).
               Test, Charles E., ed., The Test Family in Indiana: A Supplement ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : C. E. Test, 1992]).
               Thompson, Charles N., "The Pioneer Periods in Indiana," Society of Indiana
                        Pioneers Yearbook (1991).
               Toppe, Judith E., "The One-room School and Orleans High School Valedictorians,
                        1926–1975," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIX
                        (September, 1993).
               "Tuberculosis Widespread during Previous Century," Snakeroot
                            Extract, No. 25 (Fall, 1992).
               Videos on Indiana history in the "Hoosier History" series on TV 16, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Tapes available include: "Haughville, the Story of the
                        Slovenians"; "Former 
                            Indianapolis
                         Mayors"; "German Immigrants to 
                            Indianapolis
                        "; "The Indiana Pacers: The A.B.A. Years"; "The
                        Life & Times of President Benjamin Harrison"; "Indiana's
                        Italian Immigrants"; "Indiana's Irish Immigrants";
                        "Indiana's African Americans"; "Indiana's Greek
                        Immigrants"; "Indiana's Jewish Immigrants"; "The
                        History of Professional Baseball in Indiana"; "The Story of Broad
                        Ripple." Order from: Rick Maultra, TV 16, G22, City-County Building, 200 E. Washington
                        St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46204.
               
               Walters, William D., "Selling Great Lakes Townsites: 1833–1837,"
                            The Old Northwest, XVI (Winter, 1992).
               
                  
                     Warren, Stanley
                  , "The Other Side of Hoosier Hysteria:
                        Segregation, Sports, and the IHSAA," Black History News &
                        Notes, No. 54 (November, 1993).
               Way, Peter, "Evil Humors and Ardent Spirits: The Rough Culture of Canal Construction
                        Laborers," Journal of American History, LXXIX (March, 1993).
               Weber, Catherine E Forrest, "‘A Genius in the Best Sense’: John
                        Muir, Earth, and 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, V (Winter,
                        1993).
               White, Joseph M., Sacred Heart Parish at Notre Dame: A
                            Heritage and History ([Notre Dame: Sacred Heart Parish, 1992]).
               Wilkinson, Alec, A Violent Act (
                            New York
                        : Knopf, 1993). [The Michael Wayne Jackson case.]
               Willard, Shirley, "The Trail of Death, of Courage," 
                            Fulton County
                         Historical Society Quarterly Newsletter, II (December, 1992).
               Winslow, Wendy, "
                            Bedford
                         Park's Fate Set in Stone," Indiana
                        Preservationist (July/August, 1992). [Otis Park.]
               Woods, Paula A., and Fern H. Martin, Traveling through 
                        Tippecanoe: Tippecanoe
                            County
                     , Indiana (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing, 1992). Order from: G. Bradley Publishing, 461 Des Peres
                        Rd., 
                     St. Louis, MO
                   63131.
               Woolman, Mindi, "Rounding Up a Disappearing Species," Indiana
                            Preservationist (March/April, 1992). [Round barns.]
               Wright, Marie T., "Augusta Stevenson and the Bobbs-Merrill Childhood of Famous
                        Americans Biographies," Indiana Libraries, XII (1993).
            
         
         
            CORRECTION
            In John A. Jakle, "Toward a Geographical History of Indiana: Landscape and Place in
                    Historical Imagination," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIX (September,
                    1993), a photograph of Lewisville, in Henry County, Indiana, was mistakenly identified as
                Lewistown.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
