
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 31, Issue 2, pages 83-168. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:31+issue:2+year:1935&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            William Maclure
            HARVEY L. CARTER
            
            While engaged in some researches into the origins of civilization and culture in Indiana, the
                    writer's interest was drawn to William Maclure. The purpose in calling attention to him
                    goes beyond his connection with the origins of Hoosier culture, however, and is threefold: First,
                    his unusually varied and useful career merits discussion. Second, his relation to the 
                        New Harmony
                     Movement and his subsequent influence within the state of Indiana deserve considerable
                    notice. Third, his ideas concerning social and economic subjects are worthy of some study, in the
                    light of contemporary developments in these fields.
            The record of Maclure's life reminds one of the career of that recent hero of
                    fiction—the cosmopolitan Anthony Adverse. 
                  Scotland, England, France, Spain
               , in the Old World, and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Indiana, 
                        Mexico
                    , in the New World, were each in turn his home. He was born in Ayr, 
                        Scotland
                    , in 1763. At the age of nineteen, he came to 
                        New York
                     seeking mercantile employment but returned at once to 
                        London
                     where he became a partner in the firm of Miller, Hart, and Company.1 The year 1796 found him again in the 
                        United States
                     but in 1803 he was in 
                        England
                     once more. He acted as a commissioner to settle the claims of the 
                        United States
                     on the French government for spoliation during the French Revolution, in which service
                    to his adopted country he was successful. Wherever he went he observed and collected items of
                    natural history, especially geological specimens, and sent them to the 
                        United States
                    .
            Upon his return to Ameria, Maclure began, entirely without help from government or any other source,
                    a geological 
                  
                     1 During this fourteen year period, Maclure became a wealthy man but
                            no details concerning this phase of his life have been found by the writer.
               
                     survey of the 
                        United States
                    . In this work he crossed and recrossed the Alleghanies fifty times. Many of the people
                    who saw him breaking rocks with a hammer thought him a lunatic.2 He did much to
                    promote state geological surveys, and those which he lived to see completed usually confirmed his
                    findings. In this period his home was in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . He was absent at the founding of the Academy of Natural Sciences in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1812, but became a member of the organization on his return. He was President of
                    this Academy from 1818 till his death in 1840. About the time that he became its President, he gave
                    to the Academy his library of 1,500 volumes. Later, in 1835, he transferred to it over 2,250 volumes
                    from his 
                        New Harmony
                     library.3 He also gave liberally in money to the Academy, about
                    $15,000 in all.4 He served as President of the American Geological
                    Society for a number of years and was a friend and correspondent of Professor Benjamin Silliman of
                    Yale. A genus of spiral shells, of the Silurian rocks, bears his name.5
            
            In 1816 and 1817, he, with his friend Charles Lesueur, visited over twenty islands of the West Indies
                    to collect scientific data. In 1819 he went first to 
                        France
                     and thence to 
                        Spain
                    . In the latter country, he purchased ten thousand acres near Alicant and attempted to
                    found an agricultural school. But the constitutional government was soon overthrown, the land
                    returned to the church and the money he had invested in it was lost. It was with this project for an
                    agricultural school still in mind that he joined the 
                        New Harmony
                     project in 1824, arriving there in January, 1826. In 1827 he abandoned Indiana and went
                    with Thomas Say to 
                        Mexico
                    . Although he was in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        New Haven
                     for scientific meetings in 1828, he returned soon to 
                        Mexico
                     where he died in 1840. He 
                  
                     2 He published his results in the Transactions of the
                                American Philosophical Society in 1809, A corrected and extended version was
                            published in the Transactions in 1817
                  
                     3 Many of these volumes are still in the Library of the Academy of
                            Natural Sciences in 
                                Philadelphia
                            . Since they have not been kept separate and the library now eontains over one
                            hundred thousand volumes, it was not possible to ascertain the nature and scope of the books
                            given by Maclure. It is the belief of the present librarian that many of the books not
                            dealing with the natural sciences were sold.
                  
                     4 Joseph Jackson, Encyclopedia of 
                                    Philadelphia
                                
                      (1931), I, 12–17. 
                                Jackson
                             differs from Morton on the amount given. He states that $5,000 was
                            given to pay off a debt of the Academy and $20,000 for a new building. The Journal of the Academy was begun at Maclure's suggestion in 1817.
                  
                     5 George P. Merrill, The First Hundred Years of American
                                Geology, Merrill designates the years 1785 to 1819 as the Maclurean era, although
                            Maclure made no investigations in American Geology until 1796. It is clear that he was the
                            pioneer in this field in America, however.
               
                     had set out for 
                        Philadelphia
                     but ill health forced him to turn back and he died before reaching 
                        Mexico
                     City.6
            
            The connection of William Maclure with the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment has received less attention than it deserves. It is possible that the
                    attention centered by historians upon Robert Owen may have tended to obscure the achievements of
                    Maclure. Clearly Maclure was not so important to the colony as was 
                        Owen
                    , but he was a financial partner with him in the enterprise, and was second in
                    importance only to him. Maclure, like 
                        Owen
                    , was a successful business man, a philanthropist, and a social theorist. Unlike him, he
                    was not a socialist, but a man of utilitarian tendencies and a believer in democracy. His interest
                    in the colony was aroused because it offered an opportunity to introduce the Pestalozzian system of
                    education, which he had observed in Europe, and in which he was a thorough believer. He considered
                    the educational experiments to be the most important part of the 
                        New Harmony
                     program.7 Maclure was about eight years older than 
                        Owen
                    , whose friendship he had gained by a visit to New Lanark, 
                        Scotland
                    . When Owen came to America, he met Maclure in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and secured his promise of cooperation, which was forthcoming in several ways, even to
                    the investment of about $150,000 in the 
                        New Harmony
                     project, a sum comparable to that supplied by Owen himself.8 To
                    Maclure must go the credit for inducing the more prominent members of "the boat load of
                    Knowledge" to join the movement. Thomas Say, Gerard Troost, Charles Lesueur and Constantine
                    Rafinesque were younger men of Maclure's acquaintance who like him were pioneer students of
                    natural science. Maclure also secured the services of Joseph Neef, a pupil of Pestalozzi, as teacher
                    in his school. It was the later influence of these men in science and education that made the 
                        New Harmony
                     effort of permanent importance despite its lack of success in achieving the primary
                    purpose of its founder. Robert Owen's permanent influence, it is true, was manifested in
                    the careers of three of his sons, who remained in Indiana. Yet it is worth noting that two of them
                    were geologists, 
                  
                     6 Samuel George Morton, Memoir of William Maclure.
                            Read before the Academy of Natural Sciences of 
                                Philadelphia
                             on July 1, 1841, and published by the Academy in 1844. Morton's
                            account of Maclure's life, as set forth in this pamphlet has been followed in this
                            paper. Morton was Maclure's successor as President of the Academy. The work is
                            dedicated to Alexander and Anna, brother and sister of William Maclure.
                  
                     7 George P. Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 186.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 92.
               
                     which was Maclure's great field of endeavor, while
                    Robert Dale Owen's greatest work was in connection with the establishment of free public
                    schools in Indiana, which was Maclure's sine qua non for a successful
                    democracy.
            Maclure and Robert Owen quarreled because the latter started a separate educational experiment.9 No evidence has been found by the writer to indicate that any blame should
                    attach to Maclure for the failure of the experiment. He remained at 
                        New Harmony
                     for some time after this, having purchased a considerable amount of land. During this
                    interval, he petitioned the state Legislature for the incorporation of a "
                        New Harmony
                     Educational Society," but his plea was rejected.10 In 1827
                    he founded a seminary where each student paid his way by seven hours of work daily, there being no
                    charges whatever.11 He also edited the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Disseminator, writing especially on political 
                        economy
                     and advocating many reforms, some of which have since been adopted.12
            
            William Maclure's brother Alexander and sisters, Margaret and Anna, lived at 
                        New Harmony
                     for a number of years. Sir Charles Lyell, who stopped at 
                        New Harmony
                     on March 27, 1846, mentions that "The brother of Mr. Maclure lends books to
                    the citizens."13 The records of the 
                        United States
                     Census for 1850 show that in that year, a decade after William Maclure's
                    death, there resided at 
                        New Harmony
                     an agent for his estate, which was valued at $50,000.14
                    By the terms of his will $500 was to be given to any association of workingmen formed for
                    mental improvement and mutual instruction. One hundred and sixty different communities, were thus
                    provided with libraries at a time when libraries were scarce in the West.15 It
                    was through the example of this system that Robert Dale Owen was led to provide for the township
                    school libraries when the state school system was organized. Maclure's activity in this
                    line was one of far 
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 204.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 195.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 251–2.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 252.
                  
                     13 Sir Charles Lyell, A Second Visit to the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (1849), I, 202–209.
                  
                     14 Seventh Census of the 
                                United States
                             (1850), Harmony Township, 
                                Posey County
                             Manuscript, Census Bureau, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.
                  
                     15 Lockwood, 259. The 
                                New Harmony
                             "Workingmen's Institute and Library," founded at
                            Maclure's suggestion and endowed by him in 1838, was the prototype.
               
                     reaching consequences in the state of Indiana.16 There is a considerable body of opinion which holds that it was responsible for the
                    state's productivity in a literary way in later times. While the evidence on this point is
                    not conclusive, there can be no doubt that the knowledge of many a frontier town was increased and
                    that the classics were made familiar to many boys and girls of studious inclinations. Thus was the
                    influence of 
                        New Harmony
                     felt in a lasting way over all the Hoosier State. Thomas Riley Marshall, whose early
                    years were spent in the northern part of the state, was undoubtedly speaking from personal
                    experience when he attributed the Hoosier "literary fecundity and facility of speech more
                    to the traveling library than to any other cause."17 A present day
                    historian says, with reference to the township libraries: "It became traditional in Indiana
                    that such collections helped the literary talent and the intelligence of the reading public of that
                        state."18 If there is any validity in this tradition, the ultimate
                    credit should go to William Maclure.
            Of particular interest are Maclure's beliefs in regard to education, economics, and
                    government. He viewed these subjects with a breadth altogether too seldom encountered among men of
                    science. In fact, he may be regarded, as one of the earliest sociologists. He entertained many
                    opinions, not widely countenanced in his day, which have a familiar sound to us today. He is another
                    of those men so often met in history who lived before his time.
            Maclure was an early adherent of the Pestalozzian system of education. He wished to include only
                    subjects of practical value; utility was his guiding principle. Subjects of special value he
                    believed to be Natural History, Mineralogy, Geology, Botany, Zoology, Arithmetic, Mechanics, Natural
                    Philosophy, Geography, Astronomy, and to a lesser extent, Drawing and Chemistry. In keeping with his
                    utilitarian views he argued that teachers should be paid according to their success. He was
                    especially outspoken against romanticism in literature which he held to be responsible for false
                    modesty and sickly sentiment. He pointed out that "of all the animals, man is the only one
                    that is ashamed of his own body." 
                  
                     16 Burton Alva Konkle, letter to the author, 1932. Mr. Konkle, in his
                            youth was a librarian of the remnants of the Maclure collection in Albion, 
                                Noble County
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     17 Thomas Riley Marshall, "Recollections."
                  
                  
                     18 Arthur C. Cole, "The Irrepressible
                            Conflict (1934), 217.
               
                     He refered to "an exaggerated sentiment in females,
                    [which] causes them to tremble at the death of insects; while regarding the real miseries of their
                    fellow beings with sang-froid; they are shocked at the indelicacy of a word or the mention of an
                    indispensable piece of clothing."19 Such a man would, it seems, have
                    been more at ease in the present era than a hundred years earlier, when he actually lived.
            He decried the unreasoned discipline existing in the colleges of his day, and the mechanical habit of
                    committing to memory without regard to content. He believed the self-educated man to be the most
                    useful, comparing time serving in colleges to the apprentice system of the middle ages.20 It may be noted that the educational leaders of today have discarded the
                    disciplinary theory, and that the recent report of the Carnegie Foundation on college education has
                    much to say in condemnation of time serving and credit getting. He believed that children should be
                    taught positive facts or truths not speculative. His objection to religion was on account of its
                    speculative tendencies.21
            
            A very penetrating observation concerning the "snail paced progress of all moral and
                    political reforms contrasted with the rapid movements of physical and mechanical
                    improvements" is as true today as it was then. Maclure characteristically applied it to a
                    concrete situation, pointing out that "under a government of universal suffrage, there is
                    not a free school in the [western] country, though the means of defraying the expenses have been
                    eleven years at the disposal of the rulers."22
            
            He praised Sweden and 
                        Switzerland
                     for their industry and morality, feeling it to be largely the result of birth control
                    as practiced in these countries.23 He would not agree with Hitler's
                    idealization of the Nordic peoples today, for he says: "It is the monopoly of property,
                    knowledge, and power that has supported the assumed superiority of whites over the colored 
                  
                     19 William Maclure, Opinions on Various Subjects
                                dedicated to the Industrious Producers (
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana. Printed at the School Press, 1831. 2 Vols. A third volume appeared in
                            1838), I, 58–59.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., I, 124.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., I, 93–99.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., I, 84–86. Elsewhere (p. 108) Maclure points out that
                            Indiana came near providing for township schools on Jan. 31, 1824. He praises the schools of
                            New 
                                England
                            . It may be noted that of the two men in the vanguard of the fight for public
                            schools in Indiana, the one, Robert Dale Owen, has a direct connection with Maclure; the
                            other, Caleb Mills, was a product of the New 
                                England
                             system admired by Maclure.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., I, 151–154.
               
                     people in all European countries."24 His interest in 
                        Mexico
                    , in which he anticipated Stuart Chase, was the result of this confidence in the
                    inherent ability of downtrodden peoples and the desire to open opportunity to them by the door of
                        education.25 He condemned the sweat-shops of his day in bitter terms, being
                    fully cognizant of their unsocial results, as the following passage will show: 
                        In our large commercial towns, sewing which is woman's work is reduced so low by the
                            great competition that their wages will not put them on a par with the starving
                            manufacturers [workers] of Great Britain; at or under ten cents for making a man's
                            shirt can not maintain a single woman! and what must be the forlorn state of those who have
                            children? It is lamentable that the tyranny of our sex should reduce the weaker to such
                            & deplorable situation.26
                  
                    
                
            His sympathy with the working class was large and genuine, an attitude not commonly found among
                    self-made business men, in which class Maclure may be placed. He frequently speaks of the
                    "industrious millions." His social program may be illustrated by the following
                    from one of his essays: 
                        Ignorance is perhaps the only devil that has ever been on earth. … The only thing
                            belonging to the millions, that the unproductive few are interested in augmenting, is that
                            part of their production which the few live upon; to increase which … [they]
                            leave the productive classes in ignorance, that they may be more peaceable, and better
                            hewers of wood and drawers of water. Whence are the millions to expect aid or assistance?
                            From themselves—from the only class, that is interested in their welfare.
                            … Knowledge has long been considered as power.
                    
            
            This expresses clearly his belief that democracy is a practical form of government if the masses are
                    educated to the realities of life, a belief also enunciated by Thomas Jefferson. Maclure would
                    hardly consider our present mode of government very close to his conception of democracy. An
                    interesting anticipation of the recent act of 
                        Nebraska
                     in establishing a unicameral legislature is found in his belief that "one
                    house of legislation … comes nearer to that equality which is the result of universal
                    suffrage. …"27
            
            
               
                  24
                        Ibid., I, 289.
               
                  25 A large number of the essays are devoted to his observations on various
                        phases of Mexican life.
               
                  26
                        Ibid., I, 480.
               
                  27
                        Ibid., I, 72–73.
            
            
            Some of his economic views are equally remarkable for foresight and practical analysis. For example,
                    his opinions on the impolicy of indirect taxes. He objected to taxation of this nature for these
                    reasons: it burdens the millions unduly; expensive machinery is necessary to collect it; it is
                    uncertain, and fails when most needed; there is too much graft in collecting it; it does not fall on
                    actual property. He advocated a tax on bank shares, and dividends from roads, canals, insurance, and
                    chartered or incorporated companies.28 He expressed doubts in 1831 that canals
                    would pay their costs and a few years proved that he was largely right. His attack on the banks, as
                    promoters of inequality would be as applicable today as then: "All the one hundred banks
                    that have already failed have been ruined by dividing their capital and the money they received for
                    their notes, by way of profit," he wrote in 1831, and continued: "whether the
                    greatest part of the banks of the 
                        Union
                     are not now dividing their capital by too high dividends by way of profit, time must
                    and certainly will show."29 We need only to recall the ensuing panic of
                    1837 to note how soon events substantiated his views.
            By an analysis of the war of 1812, Maclure demonstrated that the rich gained by it and the poor paid
                    for it eventually though indirectly. He questioned the right of government to carry a national debt
                    for this purpose. "In an elective government, where the millions pay punctually both
                    principal and interest … it may be a query, whether any number of citizens have a right
                    to bind the rest to the payment of a debt contracted towards their fellow citizens, for the benefit
                    of those who expended it. …"30 The same query has arisen in
                    our own day in connection with the activities of the international bankers and the World War.
            He very clearly saw the dangers to a free press of control by moneyed interests: 
                        Pay for the announcing and advertising of the fruits of speculations in our large towns,
                            constitutes the most certain support of our gazettes. … By this unfortunate
                            organization of circumstances, most of our newspapers advocate the interest of the few
                            against the many, and oppose every reform that can add to the comfort and happiness of 
                        
                           28
                                    Ibid., I, 155–157.
                        
                           29
                                    Ibid., I, 455.
                        
                           30
                                    Ibid., I, 454–455.
                     
                             the millions; which is an anomaly not easy to be
                            accounted for, under an elective government of universal suffrage. …31
                  
                    
            
            On another point, he anticipated the program of Senator Huey Long, though it is evident that he would
                    scarcely approve of his methods. He writes in praise of the jubilee year remission of debts,
                    practiced by the ancient Jews, but says that Christians have not followed it, preferring
                    "to protect priests and property." In regard to the public lands, he wrote:
                    "We have preferred selling them wholesale to the moneyed aristocracy, that they might exact
                    an exorbitant price from the poor laborer who had the justest claim to them."32
            
            The variety of his interests is shown by a citation of some of the topics on which he expressed his
                    thoughts: Industrial schools, the tariff, taxes on income, good qualities of the Mexican people,
                    canals and railroads, inequality as a source of crime, paper money, wrongs and rights of women,
                    long-winded congressmen,33 relation of climate to government, the millions the
                    last to benefit by revolutions, necessity of curtailing the patronage of the executive, bank
                    monopolies, the duty of studying men as they are, inequality of property as the cause of inequality
                    of knowledge, cruelty to negroes, neglect of the exact sciences, national debts as the supports of
                    wars, men's ignorance of their real interests, the inequality existing in civilization as
                    contrary to nature. The list is certainly long and varied, and indicative of a thoughtful, active,
                    and practical mind.
            His connection with two American centers of thought in his day, 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        New Harmony
                    , testify to his importance in intellectual history and we may not only render William
                    Maclure some degree of justice, but also a service to ourselves, by a revival of interest in his
                    life and teachings.34
            
            
               
                  31
                        Ibid., I, pp. 476–477.
               
                  32
                        Ibid., II, p. 552.
               
                  33 He figured that congressional speeches cost $4.50 per
                        minute!
               
                  34 The question of the source of Maclure's ideas is one that the
                        writer has been unable to solve. To some degree they were original, but his reading must have
                        influenced him. If the library at the Academy of Natural Sciences had remained intact, the
                        question might be answered. It is possible that he came under Benthamite influence during the 
                            London
                         years, and developed from that his independent course.
            
         
         
         
            The Vincennes Bridge Over the Wabash River
               ∗
            
            ROBERT B. YULE
            
            "On the Banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    " is a phrase of song and story, and justly an oft repeated phrase in the state
                    of Indiana. Let us imagine for a moment the Wabash River as not crossing the
                    state or forming its southwestern boundary. What towns would be found instead of Wabash, Peru,
                    Delphi, Lafayette, Attica, Williamsport, 
                  Newport,
                            Clinton, Terre Haute,
                            Vincennes
                and 
                        New Harmony
                    ? What would be found instead of the fertile fields of the river's immense
                    drainage area? What would have been the history of the state without this River as an artery from
                    which many early settlements branched?
            "
                        Vincennes
                    " is a name appearing early in the history of the Old Northwest. The existence
                    and fame of the town were an almost direct consequence of its location on the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    . It is a place which must have been an Indian rendezvous and possibly a permanent
                    Indian village from its discovery by a roaming tribe. It is the site of an early trading post and of
                    a fort built by Francois Morgan de Vincennes, probably as early as 1702, the fort which was captured
                    by George Rogers Clark in his history making campaigns of 1778 and 1779.1
            
            Early in the settlement of the middle west, a trail was established connecting 
                        Vincennes
                     with New 
                  Albany, Jeffersonville
                and 
                        Louisville
                     on the east, and 
                        St. Louis
                     on the west. Villages were gradually built up along this old trail, known as the
                    "Buffalo Trace," and 
                        Vincennes
                     soon became a widely known stopping point because of the difficult Wabash
                        River crossing and the fact that here was an intersecting north and south route. By
                    1865 
                        Vincennes
                     was a city of about five thousand people. The old trail soon lost its importance
                    because of railroad development, but the decreasing overland traffic of the time was replaced by the
                    local traffic composed of people from the 
                        Illinois
                     side of the 
                        Wabash
                     who came to trade in the well stocked stores of the thriving town.
            The first ferry license at 
                        Vincennes
                     was issued to Colonel Francis Vigo on February 16, 1805. In later years, there 
                  
                     ∗ This paper was read before one of the sessions of the
                            annual Indiana History Conference which was held at the Claypool Hotel in 
                                Indianapolis
                             on December 7–8, 1934.
                  
                     1 Henry S. Cauthorn, A History of 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                      (1901), 36.
               
                     were two ferries, one on Main Street and the other at 
                        Broadway
                    .2 Wind, high water and drift made ferry operation uncertain and
                    sometimes dangerous. Consequently local people must have discussed the feasibility of a bridge as
                    soon as large bridges became common in the more thickly populated eastern states. On October 13,
                    1859, the 
                        Vincennes
                     Drawbridge Company was incorporated with a capital stock of $40,000 in
                    shares of $50 each.3 The capitalization was later increased and a
                    total of about $77,500 worth of stock was sold.4
            
            The Drawbridge Company must have found difficulty in selling all of its stock as an agitation
                    developed to have the city participate in the project. On December 18, 1865, after the receipt of a
                    petition containing the signatures of more than three-fourths of the resident taxpayers, an
                    ordinance was passed by the city council authorizing the proper city officials to subscribe for
                    $20,000 of the stock of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Drawbridge Company.5 On February 4, 1867, on receipt of a similar
                    petition, the subscription was increased to a total of $45,000.6 This
                    ordinance authorized the issuance and sale of bonds of the city in specified amounts with specified
                    maturity dates and set a rate of twelve cents on each $100 of taxable property for the
                    payment of interest and the formation of a sinking fund for the amortization of the principal. The
                    money obtained from the sale of the bonds was to be used to purchase Drawbridge Company stock. A
                    committee of three councilmen, to be known as the "Bridge Committee" was appointed
                    to vote the stock in all actions of the Drawbridge Company stockholders.7
            
            The Board of Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Drawbridge Company signed a contract on March 22, 1867, with Cyrus M. Allen and the
                    firm of 
                        Canada
                     & Hinckley for the construction of a bridge across the Wabash
                    River at the foot of Main Street in 
                        Vincennes
                    . Cyrus M. Allen was a local lawyer, councilman and legislator, while 
                        Canada
                     & Hinckley 
                  
                     2 Hubbard Madison Smith, Historical Sketch of 
                                    Old Vincennes
                                
                      (1902), 279; Indiana Territorial Journal,
                  
                     3 George E. Greene, History of 
                                    Knox County
                                
                     , I, 518.
                  
                     4 Council Records, City of 
                                Vincennes
                            , March 25, 1889.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., Dec. 18, 1865.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., Feb. 4, 1867.
                  
                            7
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     had headquarters in 
                        Chicago
                    .8 Work actually started on July 19, 1867.9
            
            Evidently several of the foundations for the piers were completed before the spring of 1868 since the
                    following appeared in the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Times of March 28, 1868: "We notice that a huge pile of drift accumulated
                    against one of the piers of the new bridge during the late freshet, still holds its grip with the
                    prospect of remaining during the season." On August 22 the same paper carried an item to
                    the effect that two spans were nearly completed, adding: "It will be one of the most
                    beautiful bridges in the State and will reflect credit on the contractors." Finally on Dec.
                    19, 1868, a statement appeared that the work was at last so far completed that the bridge had been
                    opened to the public. The following schedule of tolls was set out accompanied with an opinion that
                    the rates were too high: 
                  Vehicles drawn by 4 horses, mules or oxen 50¢
                  Vehicles drawn by 2 horses, mules or oxen 35¢
                  Vehicles drawn by 1 horse, mule or oxen 25¢
                  For each person and horse or mule 15¢
                  For every person on foot 5¢
                  For hogs, sheep or calves, led or driven, per head 5¢
                  For horses, asses or mules, per head 10¢
                  Not more than 5 head of cattle shall be allowed to cross at once.
                The toll rates as published were up to the limits permitted in the 
                        Illinois
                     Legislative Act of 1869 authorizing the erection of toll gates and the collection of
                        tolls.10
            
            The bridge replaced the Main Street ferry but on January 23, 1869, the 
                        Broadway
                     Street ferry was still in operation as the following news item appeared in the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Times of that date: "It will be seen by advertisment that Sam Haynes is
                    bound to bring ferry rates within the bounds of reason, by running constantly at the 
                        Broadway
                     landing at half rates." In the advertising section, the following appeared:
                    "NO MONOPOLY—Low tolls and low ferriage. The ferry will run for one half rates.
                    All such as desire to encourage low rates, should patronize the ferry."
            
               
                  8
                        
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Western Sun (weekly), Mar. 23, 1867.
               
                  9
                        Ibid., July 19, 1867.
               
                  10
                        
                     
                                Illinois
                             Private Laws, 1869, 289.
            
            
            In order to prevent the ferry from keeping business away from the new bridge, the 
                        Illinois
                     Legislature was influenced to pass a law during the session of 1869 prohibiting the
                    operation of a ferry within three miles of a toll bridge.11 The bridge had been
                    in service only a few months when it was the victim of an unusual accident. On April 19, 1869, a
                    near cyclone passed over the city unroofing many buildings and wrecking two covered spans on the
                    Indiana side of the river.12 When the bridge was wrecked, the law was in effect
                    and the Western Sun in its issue of May 1, 1869, called attention to the fact that 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     were completely shut off from each other. Judging from the wording of later references
                    to the situation appearing on May 29 and June 5, the ferry must have resumed operation at the 
                        Broadway
                     landing, either under the auspices of the Bridge Company or by others with law
                    enforcement agencies winking at the violation of the statute.
            Naturally there was agitation to repair or replace the wrecked spans of the bridge but apparently the
                    Company was financially unable to undertake the work as on April 19, 1869, the City Council was
                    asked to appropriate $15,000 for that purpose.13 After discussing the
                    problem until June 21, 1869, it was finally decided that the city would borrow and loan the
                    Drawbridge Company a maximum of $6,000 to be used for the repair of the bridge. The city
                    ordinance of that date specified that the Drawbridge Company was to give a mortgage on all the
                    property of the Company and that all tolls, less sums for maintenance, should be deposited each
                    month with the city treasurer until the loan should be paid. It was further required that Charles
                    Dawes, or some other mechanic, to be approved by the Council, should superintend the work. Bills
                    were to be paid by order of the Council on presentation by Dawes.14 On September
                    4, 1869, the Sun reported that the work would be completed in ten days.
            The original spans were probably rebuilt, replacing whatever parts were necessary, but the roof and
                    siding of the two spans were left off.15 By 1875 the two spans which had been
                        
                  
                            11
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     12
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun (weekly), Apr. 24, 1869.
                  
                     13 Council Records, City of 
                                Vincennes
                            , Apr. 29, 1869.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., June 21, 1869.
                  
                     15 Indiana State Highway Commission, Bridge Department, Book BR,
                        199.
               
                     repaired became so weak that it was thought necessary to replace
                    them. It is interesting to note that in the Council meeting of June 19, 1875, the Bridge Committee
                    was instructed to inquire if the Drawbridge Company directors had let a contract for the replacement
                    of the two weak spans by new iron spans. It was stated that the city owned more than half of the
                    capital stock, and it can be deduced that the Council felt that the members should be consulted in
                    regard to any contract. The Drawbridge Company directors later supplied the Council with data in
                    regard to the contract and specifications, and on June 28, 1875, a contract was let to the Massillon
                    Iron Bridge Company of Massillon, 
                        Ohio
                    , for the replacement of the two unsafe spans. The contract price was $10,000
                    and the work was completed before the end of that year.16
            
            Considerable opposition developed to the collection of tolls since citizens of 
                        Illinois
                     could go to Lawrenceville to trade and thus avoid paying the toll. Consequently the
                    City of 
                        Vincennes
                     bought the stock of the Drawbridge Company which it did not already own at forty cents
                    on the dollar, with the object of making the bridge free.17 There were some
                    legal questions involved, but finally the City Council set January 1, 1889, as the date when toll
                    collections should cease.18 The Drawbridge Company had paid dividends from time
                    to time as is evidenced by records of the Council and City treasurer, but the amounts were not large
                    and the stockholders were willing to pass on to the general public the responsibility of maintaining
                    an aging bridge. For the next thirty-two years, the City kept the bridge in repair, but found it a
                    continual burden as various parts of the wooden structure had to be repaired or replaced from time
                    to time. In 1905, or near that time, concrete toe-walls were placed around the abutments.19
            
            By 1921 Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     had developed state highway systems and an agreement was entered into between the two
                    commonwealths to assume joint responsibility for repairs to the structure. Beginning with the
                    placing of a new timber floor in 1921, the two states participated equally in the cost 
                  
                     16 Council Records, City of 
                                Vincennes
                            , Book F, 445.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., March 25, 1889. During this period the names and holdings of the
                            individual stockholders are listed.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., Book 0, 203.
                  
                     19 Indiana State Highway Commission. Bridge Department, Book BR,
                        199.
               
                     of repairs and new construction.20 About
                    1923, the 
                        Illinois
                     Division of Highways, in collaboration with the Indiana State Highway Commission,
                    proceeded with the preparation of plans for a high level steel truss bridge down stream from the old
                    bridge. Construction funds were not immediately available and work was indefinitely postponed.
            The old timber spans on the 
                        Illinois
                     side of the river had sagged somewhat and the roof and siding were removed to lighten
                    the bridge itself without decreasing its strength. By 1925, the timbers at the bearing points and at
                    some other parts of the trusses had rotted badly and it was necessary to prop up the spans by
                    placing timber bents under the trusses. A bent was placed at each end of one span and at one end of
                    the other. A few months later, protecting timber cutwaters were built, bents were placed under the
                    center of each span and some of the web members in the middle of each span were reinforced.21 Late in 1926, the old timber spans, in spite of all the work done on them,
                    were no longer safe and a contract was entered into with the Vincennes Bridge Company of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, for their replacement by steel spans. This work was completed in April,
                        1927.22 The forces of nature and the heavy traffic took their toll and in
                    1929 it was found necessary to replace the swing span of the old bridge with two steel spans in
                    order to keep it in service until the memorial bridge could be completed. The two steel spans were
                    constructed by the Vincennes Bridge Company.23
            
            The Indiana Legislature at the 1927 session enacted legislation and appropriated funds for the
                    purpose of building a memorial to George Rogers Clark on the site of Fort Sackville.24 The Federal Congress later created a Commission and appropriated funds to participate
                    in the project.25 The intended memorial grounds were to include the Indiana
                    approach to a bridge at 
                        Vigo
                     Street and the memorial sponsors urged that plans be drawn that would result in the
                    construction of a bridge harmonizing with a memorial whose surface treatment would be largely stone.
                    Recognizing the desirability of such an action, the 1923 bridge plans were discarded and 
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., File 55A, 29.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., File FA, 100.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., File BOA, 577.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., File BOA, 984.
                  
                     24
                            Acts of Indiana General Assembly, 1927, chap. 22.
                  
                     25
                            Acts of Congress, May 23, 1928.
               
                     the Indiana State Highway Commission prepared plans for a high
                    level, reinforced concrete arch-bridge of the open spandrel type.
            In January 1931, a contract was entered into with the Ferguson Construction Company and Donald B.
                    Ferguson of Rockford, 
                        Illinois
                    , and work began on the new bridge. It was completed in 1932 and the historic bridge so
                    many times repaired was removed.26 In spite of the years, the masonry of the old
                    bridge was still in excellent condition and there was no evidence that the river had ever scoured
                    deep enough to get under the piers. There is no record of the last time the swing-span was operated
                    but it is reported to have been about 1922.27 During the early years of the
                    original bridge many cargo boats moved up and down the river and it was an everyday occurrence to
                    open the swing-span. By the turn of the century, the railroads had taken most of the freight and
                    passenger business from the river boats on all but the largest rivers and it became rarely necessary
                    to open the swing-span.
            During the last years that the Main Street bridge was used it became necessary to have a ferry in
                    operation during the periods when the bridge was closed for repairs. The author remembers quite well
                    crossing the river by ferry on a rainy night early in the winter of 1925 while the bridge was being
                    repaired. Just after clearing the 
                        Illinois
                     bank, a large piece of drift lodged between the cable and the ferry boat so that the
                    boat could move neither forward nor backward. After a long battle in rain and darkness, with the
                    boat weaving drunkenly in the strong current, the ferry operators finally disengaged the drift, and
                    the ferry proceeded across the river. The replacement of the swing span was accomplished by erecting
                    the new spans alongside the old and moving them in while traffic was halted temporarily.
            At the present time [December, 1934], the George Rogers Clark Memorial with its attending landscaping
                    is practically completed so that a new era has begun. Let us hope that the beautiful new bridge may
                    have a span of useful life of longer duration than did the first bridge which served for sixty-four
                    years, and that the new structure may not experience the vicissitudes of that unlucky product of a
                    pioneer age.
            
               
                  26 Indiana State Highway Commission, Bridge Department, File 50A, 690.
               
                  27
                        Ibid., Book BR, 199.
            
            
            In order to complete the history of the bridges at the 
                        Vincennes
                     crossing of the Wabash River, it seems advisable to add some
                    technical data that is essential to an engineering record. The following facts and figures are
                    arranged so that they may be consulted with convenience.
            
                    Record of Major Construction and Repair.
                
            In 1867–68, the 
                        Vincennes
                     Drawbridge Company, with Cyrus M. Allen and 
                        Canada
                     & Hinckley as the contractors, constructed the Main Street bridge. In 1869 the
                    same company, with Charles Dawes as Superintendent of the work, repaired two spans of the bridge on
                    the Indiana side of the river. In 1875 the Bridge Company employed the Massillon Iron Bridge Company
                    to replace the two spans on the Indiana side at a cost of $10,000.
            In 1921, the Indiana State Highway Commission, acting for Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , employed Thomas J. Edwards and Son to put a new floor in the bridge at a cost of
                    $5,014.81. The materials were obtained from the Simpson Lumber Company.
            In February, 1925, The Indiana Commission, again acting for Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , employed the Vincennes Bridge Company to repair two spans of the bridge on the 
                        Illinois
                     side, at a cost of $3,118.85. In December of the same year, further repairs
                    were made on the same spans by the Vincennes Bridge Company, at a cost of $4,499.70. For
                    the repairs of 1921 and 1925, the Indiana Highway Commission furnished further materials valued at
                    about $1,000.
            The most extensive repairs ever made on the old bridge, were completed in 1926–27, by the
                    Vincennes Bridge Company, under the direction of the Indiana State Commission acting for Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . Two spans on the 
                        Illinois
                     side were entirely replaced, the cost being $28,043.49. The following year,
                    the Mott Core Drilling Company of 
                        Huntington
                    , West 
                        Virginia
                    , completed some foundation borings at a cost of $1,032. In 1929, the Indiana
                    Commission, acting for the two states, engaged the Vincennes Bridge Company to replace the
                    swing-span of the bridge with two steel spans, which cost $12,305.97.
            It was in the year 1931, that the State Highway Commission, acting for 
                        Illinois
                     as well as for Indiana, employed the Ferguson Construction Company and Donald B.
                    Ferguson to  construct the new 
                        Clark
                     Memorial Bridge across the 
                        Wabash
                     at the end of 
                        Vigo
                     Street. This splendid work was finished in 1932, at a cost of more than a quarter
                    million dollars, the exact sum being $259,026.94. The old Vincennes Bridge at the end of
                    Main Street was dismantled in 1932 by the Ferguson Construction Company as a part of their contract.
                    For the steel and timber salvaged from the old bridge, the Vincennes Bridge Company paid
                    $1,557, that company being the highest bidder.
            
                    
                        Bridge as Built in 1868.
                    
                    Substructure:
                    
                  Abutment one (Indiana side)—Stone masonry. Flared wings. Toe-wall added about
                            1905.
                  Piers two and three—Stone masonry. Up-stream end triangular, down-stream end
                            square.
                  Pier four—Stone masonry. Circular. Diameter 20′6′.
                  Piers five and six—Stone masonry. Up-stream end triangular, downstream end
                            square.
                  Abutment seven (
                                Illinois
                             side)—Stone masonry. Flared wings. Toe-wall built about 1905.
               
                    Superstructure:
                    
                  Span one (Indiana side)—
                  Type, covered timber Howe truss.
                  Clear Span Length, 155′,0′
                  Clear Roadway Width, 16′,0′
                  Height (c to c chords), 14′8′
                  Panels, 16–9′, 10′ approx.
                  Top Chord, 3—8′x9′ timbers.
                  Bottom Chord, 3–5′x11′ timbers.
                  Main inclined Web Members, 2–6′x9′ timbers.
                  Counters (in every panel), 1–5%′x5½′ timber.
                  Vertical Web Members, 2 Rods 1⅛′ round.
                  Floor Beams, transverse timber. Joists resting directly on bottom chord. (Adjacent timber
                            spans continuous over the pier).
                  Span two—All data same as span one except clear length of 156′,
                            8½′.
                  Spans three and four—Swing span pivoting on pier four and ends resting on piers
                            three and five.
                  Type, variable depth, combination timber and iron. Howe truss. No top lateral system.
                  Clear Span Lenths 61′,6′ and
                            60′,5½′
                  Truss Length, 144′ approx.
                  Height (c to c chords), center 15′,9′
                  Panels, 16–9′, 1′ approx.
                  Top Chord, 3 curved plates 5′x½′, Long axis vertical,
                            blocked apart by spreaders.
                  
                  Bottom Chord, 2 plates 5′x½′. Long axis vertical, blocked
                            apart by spreaders.
                  Main Inclined Web Members, 2–5′x6¾′ timbers.
                  Counters (in every panel), 1–5′x6¾′ timbers.
                  Vertical Web Members, 2—rods 1¼′ round.
                  Floor Beams, transverse 3′x12′. Joists resting directly on the
                            bottom chord.
               
                
            The truss members were designated as though each half was a simple span supported at the ends, except
                    that the change in inclination of the main web members was placed one panel point off center away
                    from the center pier. The center support was a combination of rim and center bearing. The dead and
                    live loads were transmitted to a framework of beams under the floor and over the pier. The center
                    bearing and drum were framed to the underside of the beams. The drum was supported on small
                    wide-rimed wheels turning on axles radiating from a collar around the center bearing. The wheel
                    track and rack were in one piece, the rack and pinion being on the outside. The span was turned by
                    man-power, a crank being applied to a spindle rising vertically from the pinion to the floor level.
            
                    
                  Span five—Same as span one, except clear span length of
                            153′,9′
                  Span six (
                                Illinois
                             side)—Same as span one, except clear span length of
                            148′,7′
               
                    
                        Changes in 1875
                    
                    Superstructure:
                    
                  Span one (Indiana side)—
                  Type, wrought iron bowstring truss with several panels of top lateral system at center of
                            span.
                  Clear Span Length, 155′,0′
                  Clear Roadway Width, 16′,0′
                  Height (c to c chords), 18′,0′ approx.
                  Panels, 20–8′,0′ approx.
                  Top Chord, 2 curved plates, 12′x½′, long axis horizontal,
                            1′,5½′ centers. Plates blocked apart in about
                            12′ panels by 41½′ round rods as X bracing and
                            2⅝′ round rods perpendicular to plates holding all together.
                  Lower Chord, 2 plates 10′x⅝′, long axis vertical.
                  Verticals, 2¾′ on each axis.
                  Inclined Web Members, ¾′ round rod.
                  Floor Beams, 3′x12′ at 1′,6′ centers, resting
                            directly on bottom chord.
                  Span two—same as span one.
               
                    
                    
                        Changes in 1926.
                    
                    Superstructure:
                    
                  Span five—
                  Type, high camel back steel Pratt truss. Shop riveted and field bolted. Plank floor. Built
                            so as to be easily taken down and re-erected elsewhere.
                  Clear Span Length, 153′,9′
                  Clear Roadway Width, 20′,0′
                  Height (c to c chords), center 30′,8⅛′. Hip
                            22′,4¼′
                  Panels, 8–19′,6′
                  Designed for live load of 100 lbs. per square foot of roadway surface or a 20 ton traction
                            engine. Span six—
                  Type, same as Span five.
                  Clear Span Length, 148′,7′
                  Clear Roadway Width, 20′,0′
                  Height (c to c chords), center 30′,1′. Hips,
                            21′,11⅛′.
                  Panels, 8–19′,1½′
                  Designed for loading same as for span five.
               
                    
                        Changes in 1929
                    
                    Superstructure:
                    
                  Spans three and four—
                  Type, pony 
                                Warren
                             triangular steel truss. Shop riveted and field bolted. Plank floor. Built so as
                            to be easily taken down and reerected elsewhere.
                  Clear Span Lengths, 61′6′ and
                            60′,5½′.
                  Length of Truss, 72′,0′ c to c bearings.
                  Clear Roadway Width, 20′,0′.
                  Height (c to c chords), 8′,6′.
                  Panels, 6–12′,0′.
                  Designed for live stock of 120 lbs. per sq. ft. of roadway surface or a 20 ton traction
                            engine.
               
                    
                        Structure Built in 1932.
                    
                    Substructure:
                    
                  Concrete on timber piling.
                  Bottoms of footings on river piers, 17′ below low water.
               
                    Superstructure:
                    
                  Type, reinforced concrete open spandrel arch.
                  Clear Span Lengths (Indiana side) 80′, 145′, 170′. (
                                Illinois
                             side) 180′, 170′, 145′, 70′.
                  Arch Rises, 20–32′,7¼′;
                            36′,8⅜′; 38′,3′;
                            36′,8⅜′; 32′,7¼′;
                            28′, 10½′ (
                                Spring
                             lines level).
                  Clear Roadway Width, 32′,0′ and
                            2–5′,0′ sidewalks.
                  Height, on 1100′ vertical curve between five per cent, grades. At center of
                            bridge, bottom of footings to crown of roadway, 76′,3′. At center of
                            bridge, 1913 high water stage to under-clearance elevation, 31.93′
               
                
            Note: The Information in regard to details of the structural 
                    designs is from records of the Indiana State Highway Commission, Bridge Department. See survey field
                    books numbered 146, 182, and 199 and plans 50-A-690.
         
         
         
            The Importance of a Single Vote
            HARRY S. NEW
            
            The declaration of war with 
                        Mexico
                    , made by the 
                        United States
                     in May, 1846, was determined by the vote of a farmhand in 
                        DeKalb County
                    , Indiana, in the fall election of 1842. Such at least was the story told throughout the
                    state for many years after the event. Party organizers employed it in their efforts to impress upon
                    the minds of voters the necessity of going to the polls and voting on election day. The possible
                    consequences that hung upon a single vote were brought home with all the impressiveness the
                    organizer could command. Whether this assertion was or was not extravagant, the story of the
                    circumstances under which the farm hand voted and of the resultant consequences is most interesting.
                    Even if it be insisted that it is not conclusive in establishing the truth of the original claim
                    made for it, it does both "point a moral and adorn a tale."
            Upon the results of the Indiana State election of 1842 depended the election of a 
                        United States
                     Senator, and this being long before the day of the primary and the seventeenth
                    amendment to the Constitution providing for the election of senators by the direct vote of the
                    people, the complexion of the Legislature then selected would determine who the senator should be
                    and the party to which he should belong. In 1842–43, the candidates were Oliver H. Smith,
                    the Whig Senator up for re-election, and General Tilghman A. Howard, a Democrat. Both men were
                    prominent, worthy and capable, and there was no other thought than that one of them would be elected
                    depending on which party elected the majority of the Legislature.
            The legislative apportionment called for one joint representative for 
                        Steuben
                     and 
                        DeKalb
                     counties, and the candidates for the place were 
                        Madison
                     Marsh of 
                        DeKalb
                     and Enos Beall of 
                        Steuben
                    . According to the returns made by the local canvassing board, the election resulted in
                    a tie between Marsh and Beall:
            
               
                        Steuben County
                    :
            
               Enos Beall 271
               
                  
                            Madison
                         Marsh 174
            
            
            
               
                        DeKalb County
                    :
            
               
                  
                            Madison
                         Marsh 186
               Enos Beall 89
               Total vote cast for each 360
            
            Marsh contested the election, claiming that the election officers of Smithfield Township, 
                        DeKalb County
                    , had illegally rejected the ballot of 
                        Henry
                     Shoemaker, which, had it been counted, would have given Marsh an additional vote in 
                        DeKalb County
                    , thereby giving him a total of 361 votes in the combined returns, and a seat in the
                    house.
            Shoemaker was the farm-hand in the picture, and the story as brought out by the Committee on
                    Elections of the Indiana House of Representatives was that during the campaign, Candidate Marsh in
                    the course of his campaigning met Shoemaker and exacted from him a promise to vote for him on
                    election day. The story proceeds to disclose that on the afternoon of election day Shoemaker had
                    suddenly recalled his forgotten promise to Marsh. He worked on a farm about twelve miles from the
                    polling place, but in order to keep his pledge he put a saddle on a horse and rode into
                    Kendallville, arriving late in the afternoon. At the polls he asked for a ticket and discovered that
                    the one handed him did not contain Marsh's name. Proceeding with the details, it was
                    developed that the election officers did not have a ticket containing the names desired by
                    Shoemaker, who because of this, took two or three tickets which were given him by the inspector, and
                    with a pen-knife cut from one or another the names he wanted, the process resulting in his having a
                    ticket made up of four pieces. These he rolled together, wrapping three in the fourth piece, and
                    gave them to the inspector, who accepted them and put them in the ballot box. Shoemaker stayed
                    around the polls for an hour or more after voting and nothing was said by any of the election
                    officers that suggested any dissatisfaction on their part with the character of Shoemaker's
                    ticket, as finally made up. Nor was anything said of any purpose to reject the ticket when the time
                    came for counting the votes. However, the inspector threw out the Shoemaker ticket when it was
                    reached in the count, thereby depriving Marsh of that vote, which would have given him a majority
                    had it been counted.
            When the contest reached trial, all the circumstances attending 
                    the making up of Shoemaker's vote were brought out in elaborate detail by the Elections
                    Committee—how Shoemaker had to resort to the use of several tickets in order to get the
                    names of his choice because the election officials did not have the particular ticket he
                    wanted—how the inspector had loaned Shoemaker his own sharp pocket-knife for use in
                    cutting out the names, etc. Marsh claimed that the Shoemaker vote was legal, and the Committee on
                    Elections so held, in which decision it was sustained by the whole House, and Marsh was seated by
                    the adoption of a formal resolution that he was entitled to the seat.1
            
            Marsh was a Democrat, and on the election of a 
                        United States
                     Senator voted first for 
                        Howard
                    , and when Howard's name was dropped he voted for Edward A. Hannegan, his name
                    having then been brought forward, thereby giving Hannegan a majority over Smith and electing him to
                    the Senate. Had Shoemaker's vote been rejected and neither Beall nor Marsh seated, neither
                    having received a majority of all votes cast, seventy-five votes in the Legislature would have been
                    a majority and Smith would have been re-elected on the second ballot.
            To everybody's surprise the first ballot stood 
                        Howard
                    , 74; Smith, 72; and Hannegan, 3. On the second ballot Smith received 75 votes, within
                    one of the 76 necessary for election. On the sixth ballot, the Democrats having then deserted
                    General Howard, Hannegan received the 76 votes necessary for election.2 Thus it
                    was that the final counting of 
                        Henry
                     Shoemaker's individual vote cast in 
                        Smithfield
                     Township, 
                        DeKalb County
                    , prevented Oliver H. Smith from succeeding himself as 
                        United States
                     Senator, and brought about the election to that office of Edward A. Hannegan. But for
                    the counting of that one vote which made Marsh the representative from the Counties of 
                        Steuben
                     and 
                        DeKalb
                    , Hannegan could not have been elected as he was later in the afternoon of that day.
                    Four years later, Hannegan, 
                        United States
                     Senator from Indiana, supplied the vote necessary for a caucus majority on 
                  
                     1 The report of the committee is found in the Indiana
                                House Journal of 1842, 60–70. This session of the Legislature was the
                            twenty-seventh. It convened in December, 1842, and performed most of its work in 1843, but
                            the Journal is designated as that of 1842. For the election figures
                            furnished in this paper, see History of 
                                    Steuben County
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 321, and History of 
                        
                                    DeKalb County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 317.
                  
                     2 See Indiana Senate Journal, 1842,
                            349–355, for the record of the balloting for 
                                United States
                             Senator.
               
                     the declaration that a state of war existed between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Mexico
                    .
            In 1846 the troubles between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Mexico
                     had reached so serious a point that the demand for a declaration of war was most
                    urgent. The sentiment of the Senate as to whether such a declaration was to be made was very evenly
                    divided, and a caucus of the Democratic Senators constituting a majority was called to determine the
                    course of action. The vote was a tie, Senator Hannegan being absent. The matter was allowed to
                    remain as it was until Hannegan could be found. He was sent for and brought immediately into the
                    caucus where he promptly voted "aye," thus breaking the tie and fixing the policy
                    of the Democratic Senators.3 The declaration that a state of war between the two
                    countries existed was then passed.
            But the story of the election of a joint representative for 
                        Steuben
                     and 
                        DeKalb
                     Counties was not the only singular one attaching to that legislative session and
                    senatorial election, there being a second relating to 
                        Switzerland County
                    , where Daniel Kelso was elected representative. Kelso was a Whig and it was never
                    doubted that he would vote for his party candidate, Senator Oliver H. Smith. However, Kelso voted
                    for Hannegan from first to last and the reason as subsequently given for his action provided
                    something in the nature of a parellel for the tale above narrated.
            This story was that Hannegan, as a lawyer, had defended a citizen of 
                        Switzerland
                     County against a charge of murder, and had secured his acquittal. Hannegan was a great
                    orator, and it was said of this particular trial that judge, jury, and spectators were moved to
                    tears by the eloquence of his plea for his client. The man was very poor and could pay Hannegan
                    nothing, but he recognized his great obligation to his attorney and vowed that if opportunity ever
                    presented, he would go to the ends of the earth to serve Hannegan, and duly impressed all this upon
                    his son. The client was dead before this particular election came on, but the son survived him
                    though he was himself now in an advanced stage of tuberculosis. Kelso was said to have gone to the
                    home of the invalid son whom he persuaded to go to the polls with him and to vote for him. The sick
                    man consented 
                  
                     3 John Wesley Whicker, "Edward A. Hannegan," in Indiana Magazine of History (Dec., 1918), XIV, 370.
               
                     to this upon the condition that, if Hannegan should be a
                    candidate before the Legislature, Kelso would vote for him for Senator. Kelso was elected by one
                    vote and is said to have justified his conduct in deserting Senator Smith, the candidate of his
                    party, on the ground that he could not have been elected to his seat in the Legislature had it not
                    been for the vote of the invalid to whom he had made a sacred promise.
            Several years later Senator Smith became one of the first Hoosiers to write a book which he published
                    in 1858, a volume of very interesting stories under the title Early Indiana Trials and
                        Sketches. In a chapter of this volume he tells of the senatorial election of 1842, of the
                    defeat of himself and General Howard, and of the election of Hannegan. Singularly enough he makes no
                    mention of either the Marsh or the Kelso stories, attributing his defeat rather to what he denounced
                    as the perfidy of Senator Hoover of 
                        Wayne County
                    , alleging the breaking of a promise, and of Kelso's desertion of his party.
                    Smith avers that while Hoover was a Democrat elected from a county having a heavy Whig majority, he
                    had repeatedly promised to vote for Smith for 
                        United States
                     Senator and that he was elected only upon that definite understanding. However, after
                    having voted for Smith on the first tnd second ballots, Hoover then went to Hannegan. As for Kelso,
                    Senator Smith satisfies himself by accusing him of having treacherously deserted his party.4
            
            So far as is known to the writer, there was never any proof of the story regarding the murder trial
                    and consequent gratitude of the son of the accused man or of Kelso's story. J. Wesley
                    Whicker, an old friend of the writer, published a book in 1916 under the title, Historical Sketches of Wabash Valley
               , in which he told the Kelso
                    story about as it appears above.5 It may be true, but, if it is based upon
                    anything more than tradition, the writer has been unable to find a record of it. The story of the
                    election of Marsh is definitely and truly established in the records of the Legislature.6 The few embellishing details which are omitted in the official record were
                    supplied by the newspapers of the day. There can be no question whatever as to its accuracy.
            
               
                  4 Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches
                        (Cinn., 1858), 353–355.
               
                  5 This volume was published at Attica, Indiana. The story of
                        Kelso's election is related on pages 136–137. The story is also presented in
                        the article mentioned above in note 3.
               
                  6 Report of the House Elections Committee, Indiana House
                            Journal, 1842, 60–70.
            
         
         
         
            The Old 
                        Sullivan
                     Home in 
                        Madison
                    
            
            JULIA LECLERC KNOX
            
            "If old houses had tongues what interesting stories they could tell!" Really such
                    houses do not need tongues—they do talk and what intriguing raconteurs they prove
                    themselves to be! 
                        Madison
                     is full of these old residences. One of the best known is the 
                        Sullivan
                     House, built in 1816, when James Madison was President, the first brick dwelling more
                    than one story high in the town. The great-great-grandfather of ex-Mayor Reginald Sullivan of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was the builder and owner. In all the long career of this old mansion only three
                    families besides the Sullivans have dwelt in it. It is located on Second Street and, like an old
                    soldier at attention, stands proudly erect, as if with its thick walls, it is ready to defy the
                    tooth of the big bad wolf, time, for another century or two. It was restored, not remodeled, in 1927
                    by its present owners, Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Gibb, who have made an Old Curiosity Shop of it.
            The front, which is two full stories, faces Second Street while the third story, topped by funny
                    Siamese twin-like chimneys, runs up on the garden side like a feather in a lady's hat. This
                    old fashioned garden, enclosed by a brick wall, extends to the corner of the street. The entrance to
                    the mansion is not in the middle with a window on each side, but seems to have edged down to the
                    west end, politely giving place to the two shuttered windows, all balanced neatly by three windows
                    above, surmounted by an engaging old cornice. The brass-knobbed entrance door has an alluring fan
                    shaped transom and side windows, above which swings an antique lantern, symbol of what may be seen
                    within. The quaint little old stoop is ascended by a few curved stone steps, guarded by an old iron
                    railing that curves artistically with the curve of the steps, strangely satisfying to the eye. One
                    does not need to be told that this was the original entrance.
            The broad hall has queer old wall paper, a reproduction of the style it wore in its youth, and boasts
                    an historic old mirror and other hall furniture that is calculated to set the heart of the antique
                    collector a-flutter. At the right are double parlors in each of which are still the original wooden
                    mantels. Wooden cornices are over all the windows and  the
                    double wooden doors. The latter are nine feet high, with double crossed panelings and ornamented
                    with beautiful fine flutings—all of the Federal era. The floors down stairs are all the
                    original ones, of white ash.
            The hall leads into the dining room, which is long with wainscoting characteristic of the period. A
                    door opens on an immense side screened porch, twelve feet wide and some thirty-five long, which
                    fronts on the flower garden. Behind the dining room is the kitchen, the only part of the house at
                    all modernized, though it still retains its white ash floor. An enclosed back stair leads from this
                    room to the second story. But it will be best to go back to the hall and ascend the front stairway
                    with its cherry rail and easy tread and grandfather's clock, keeping watch at the head.
            The second floor of the building has a hall and four bedrooms, each more lovely than the last. Here
                    are the proverbial two or three steps up or down from the hall to these rooms or to the side porch
                    which is a "double decker," with an inviting old wooden settee so hospitable that
                    it costs a painful effort to refuse to stop awhile. One bedroom is a study in green with a priceless
                    old wagon-top canopy bed; another's prevailing color is blue with a Jenny Lind bed. A third
                    is in rose color and has a cherry pilaster bed, while the fourth has a rosewood four-poster and
                    built-in cupboards, almost the width of the room, with countless drawers and doors. In all of these
                    rooms the wall paper harmonizes with the quaint old pictures, rugs, coverlids, chairs and other
                    furniture. Two bathrooms are additions of a recent period.
            There is a third floor which is all one room—and such a room as should be an
                    artist's study. There is a plank floor sixteen feet wide at the entrance and a queer little
                    balcony off the square landing, lighted by a window. The stair doubles on itself so you can stand at
                    the bottom and look up, as through a rectangular funnel, or at the top and gaze down.
            The wonderful, old basement of the house is such as you find only in fine, old residences of a
                    previous era, like the Phineas 
                        Kent
                     Mansion at New 
                        Albany
                     or the 
                        Harrison
                     Home at 
                        Vincennes
                    . An enclosed, very steep stairway leads to it. With walls of limestone, sandstone and
                    Indiana granite, it has six rooms! One was evidently the kitchen in early days and still preserves
                    its gigantic open-mouthed fireplace and  original hearth. Here
                    is a crane with suspended kettle as if ready at any time to furnish a cup of tea since the days of
                    John Alden and Priscilla. A spinning wheel is cozily adjacent, but so are candle-molds, winding
                    blades, splint bottomed chairs, and a funny, old broom. There are rare old pieces of china on the
                    mantel shelf. An old musket rests above the fireplace and an old lantern stands ready for use at the
                    side. All bespeak the lights and shades of pioneer days.
            The entire house is filled with antiques. On the parlor walls are interesting old portraits, two of
                    which deserve especial attention. One of them is the likeness of Christopher Coffin, early
                    Postmaster of 
                        Madison
                     and an ancestor of Mrs. Gibb. Another is that of her great-great-grandfather (a
                    traditional relative of Benjamin Franklin) who was captain of an oil whaler, and a resident, when on
                    land, of Nantucket. In an issue of Country Life of 1927 appeared pictures and a
                    description of Moore's End, the home of Mrs. Gibb's ancestors. Happy indeed are
                    those who sometimes obtain the privilege of lodging in the old 
                        Sullivan
                     home at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, with its wonderful furnishings.
         
         
         
            Childhood Memories of 
                        Vevay
                    
            
            CORINNE SCHENCK DAHMAN
            
            My first recollection of my grandfather, Ulysses Philip Schenck, was as a very little girl sitting on
                    his knee braiding and unbraiding his soft white hair, which fell, with the promise of a curl to the
                    nape of his neck. He was tall and of massive frame—bone and muscle sparsley covered with
                    flesh. His head was large, forehead broad and face clean shaven, with nothing to conceal the
                    firmness of his chin and the remarkable thinness of his lips.
            My grandmother, Justine Thiebauld Schenck, who in her way was as big a personality as my grandfather
                    in his, was of medium height and comfortably broad. Although two years his senior, her fair hair,
                    parted in middle and drawn down over her ears, was but slightly sprinkled with grey under the black
                    lace-cap which partly covered it.
            The large, stately, colonial red-brick house with its white pillars and green shutters furnished a
                    proper setting for these two. Built by my grandfather in the early forties on the hillside
                    over-looking the river at 
                        Vevay
                    , it had a dining-room and kitchen in the basement with a wide hall through the center
                    from North to South, and partitions from East to West that divided each floor into four big, corner
                    rooms with windows in two directions. This was the simple architecture of the house, but its glory
                    lay in two features: the three-story white-pillared porches facing the river; and the stairway,
                    extending in one long spiral from the first floor to the attic where it looked into a skylight.
            When my grandfather was having this building constructed, the architect, Mr. Francis Costigan, was
                    designing some remarkable buildings in 
                        Madison
                     and other parts of the state, so grandfather sent to 
                        Madison
                     and contracted with him to build his stairway for $1500. The house itself
                    was probably built by the 
                        Vevay
                     architect, Kyle, though his name, as has been erroneously stated, is not to be found on
                    the newel post of the stairway.
            The yard had its own distinctive charm as well as the house. It sloped a velvety sward toward the
                    river. A neat cobble-stone walk, made of small round boulders, kept free of weeds and bordered by
                    long narrow flat stones led from  the wrought-iron gate to the
                    front door where it divided into two paths, one going around each side of the house down to the
                    grape arbor which extended the full length of the basement porch and far beyond at each end like
                    wings.
            Beneath the West end of the arbor was the deep pit where grandmother, under a glass frame, kept her
                    flowers in Winter. On the West side of the yard was also the magnolia, where it could catch the last
                    rays of the sun, nevertheless having to be swathed in straw and boxed during the Winter months while
                    the oleanders, so greatly cherished, had to be carried in their tubs to the cellar.
            Flowers were an important part of grandmother's life and when the voices of her children
                    were forever stilled they filled many a lonely hour making her life fragrant with their beauty. In
                    the summer time, her yard was full of them. Besides the oleanders and creamy magnolias of the sunny
                    South, there were the lilacs, snowballs and syringas of the North, along with lilies, roses and
                    geraniums of every kind. The old French ladies vied with one another in getting the rarest flowers.
                    When grandmother went to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , a visit to the florists was as much a matter of course as a visit to Shillitos, while
                    the captains of grandfathers boats had orders to bring up from the South any shrub or plant that
                    could withstand the rigors of our northern climate.
            On the east side of the yard was the ice house, a conical shaped brick building partly buried in the
                    ground so that the entrance was several steps down. For years it had been grandfather's
                    custom to have his ice cut in the winter and stored in saw dust in this building for summer use, but
                    that was no longer necessary. A 
                        Vevay
                     citizen found it profitable to cut and store ice to peddle to the whole community
                    during the warm months, so grandfather closed his ice house and became a customer.
            Opposite the chicken-house and yard was the kitchen garden with some fruit trees and a row of currant
                    and gooseberry bushes. Of these same currant and gooseberry bushes, I learned a lesson in
                    thoroughness. Grandmother always shared her fruit with her two daughters-in-law and, as the youngest
                    in our family, it fell to my lot to pick our share. Grandmother's orders were quite
                    explicit—"Pick each branch  clean before
                    going to the next one"—and grandmother's orders were not easily
                    disobeyed.
            Just below the house and garden was a pasture with a running brook for the comfort of
                    "Fannie" and the cow where they could always be watched from the sitting room
                    windows or from behind the white columns on the porch. Thus on one small space right in the heart of
                    the town was brought together many of the various things which supplied the needs and comforts of a
                    family.
            During my childhood, life in 
                        Vevay
                     was quiet and uneventful, but for one who loved beauty, the hills with their fresh
                    green foliage or autumn tints, their changing lights and shadows and soft blue haze, the winding
                    river, the blue sky with its fleecy clouds and gorgeous sunsets, the many flowers and singing birds
                    filled it full of charm. On Summer evenings and afternoons driving was the chief diversion, for many
                    of the townspeople kept a horse and buggy, and those who did not, could usually afford the price of
                    a "rig" at one of three livery stables, for a Sunday afternoon at least.
            One drove up the river road to the cemetery and then on to Markland, now the site of the government
                    dam, or down the river road to Lamb, just opposite Carrollton, going a little farther, sometimes, if
                    one were not particular about returning to the evening service. If provided with a good horse, one
                    might take the Mt. Sterling Pike, slowly mounting by the Horseshoe Bend to the top of the hills,
                    which formed a high ridge behind the town. The view along the way, as one slowly wound around the
                    bend through the narrow valley fully warranted the long pull, for the town below peeping through the
                    foliage of its many trees was picturesque, while the river and the 
                        Kentucky
                     hills were impressive. At the top, a narrow white road stretched far into the distance,
                    rising and falling with the rolling country, while on either side fertile fields extended to the
                    hills rising up from Indian Creek on the one hand and the Ohio River on the
                    other.
            One other Sunday diversion that was more exciting than driving was going to the river to see the
                    boats land. Of course, if one did not drive too far and the boats did not arrive too early one might
                    experience both pleasures on the same afternoon. There were two boats a day, "an up boat
                    and a down boat", carrying mail and passengers between 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    . 
                        Vevay
                     was the halfway point and sometimes the boats met at its wharf. On week days the trip
                    was made at night but on Sundays the boats left the respective cities at nine A.M., and arrived at 
                        Vevay
                     sometime during the afternoon, depending on the stage of water and the amount of
                    freight to be loaded and unloaded.
            These Sunday boat landings were often the only break in the week's monotony, and were
                    especially appreciated by the young people. It was cool by the waters edge, and a pleasant meeting
                    place for the exchange of banter, while, for some of the girls, there was the added thrill of a
                    flirtation with the river men, among whom 
                        Vevay
                     was noted for its pretty girls.
            The landing of a boat was always an interesting sight. It glided toward the wharf, and when near
                    gracefully swung about facing in the opposite direction. Then the engine bells rang, the engine was
                    reversed and in the midst of a breathless silence the boat slowly nosed its way to the wharf, the
                    roustabouts standing poised on the very edge to throw the heavy cable into the grasp of the boatman,
                    who had already leaped from the boat to the wharf so he could make it fast. This accomplished, a
                    sigh of relief went up from the crowd on the upper deck who once again took up their banter while on
                    the deck below the roustabouts ran hither and yon carrying freight on and off the boat or driving
                    bellowing cattle. The mate gave sharp commands mixed with curses while passengers were hustled off
                    and hustled on by the second officer. Meantime the porter saw to the baggage winding in and out
                    through the merchandise and the hurrying roustabouts. When the last piece of freight was in place
                    and the last passenger safely landed, the gang plank swung high in the air, the engine bells rang
                    again, and the wheels churned the water while the boatman loosened the cables which held the big
                    boat fast to the wharf and then sprang back on the boat across the widening strip of water. The
                    steamer glided gracefully across the river to the Ghent landing and the excitement for the week was
                    over. The crowds then swarmed up the river bank on their return to the town.
            Members of our family usually watched the boat landing from between the white pillars of
                    grandfather's veranda in the shade of the purple wisteria which grandmother had  planted when the house was built in the forties. With its trunk now
                    grown as thick as a man's arm, it had climbd to the high ceiling of the second story where
                    it shaded the whole southwestern end of the porch, its blossoms hanging in purple festoons. With the
                    coming of the Winter months, the driving and the trips to the wharf ceased and we were confined to
                    the family circle, to the family dinner parties, where the tables fairly groaned under the quantity
                    of food, and to the church socials.
            The red-brick house with the sunshine of its past joys and the shadows of deep sorrows, which had
                    encompassed these two old people, always had a great charm for me both summer and winter. As I grew
                    into girlhood, the long winter Sunday afternoons spent under its friendly roof, became the red
                    letter days of the week for me. Apparently there was nothing to attract a child—just two
                    old people and a bachelor uncle. Nevertheless, there was a subtle charm, which I unconsciously felt.
                    Now as I look back, I know that this charm was the perfect peace and harmony which surrounded these
                    old people. Always sensitive to atmosphere, I felt it even in my earliest childhood when I sat on my
                    grandfather's knee. I never heard a note of discord in that household. Grandfather was a
                    gentle and even-tempered person and grandmother, with all her energy, was never hurried or cross,
                    but had that calm dignity which commands respect and obedience.
            On Sunday afternoons in Winter we sat by the grate fire in the living room, which was always bright
                    and cheerful. A window on the West gave us a distant view of the 
                        Ohio
                     and the sweep of the hills which line its course, while the many small window panes
                    reflected the glow of the sun low on the horizon. To the South, a window, extending almost to the
                    floor with two small doors at the bottom opening on the porch, put us in direct touch with the river
                    and the many boats and barges passing up and down its course. In one corner of this room was a
                    curious spiral stairway connecting with the bedroom above. It was enclosed, so when the doors at
                    each end were shut it was quite dark. It had a great fascination for me partly made up of fear of
                    the unknown terrors which might lurk in its dark and winding passages.
            
            Often we sat before the fire, grandfather reading the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Enquirer or the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier-Journal and giving especial attention to river news with an occasional
                    comment, while I was absorbed in some story book dug out of the old bookcase in the hall. The
                    whistles of the steamboats making their landings, the chug of their engines, and the swish of their
                    paddle wheels were the only sounds that broke the Sabbath stillness.
            It was strange that I, who had Chatterbox, Wideawake, St. Nicholas, Youth's
                        Companion, Mrs. Alcott's stories and many, many other interesting things to read
                    at home, should have cared for the books in grandfather's library. They were so very naive,
                    they told of trivial incidents, and they ended with long moral homilies, but they were for me the
                    bridge which spanned the space between the past and present.
            This house, so still in the days of my visits, had once been peopled with children like
                    myself—my father, of whom I had but a dim recollection, and his sisters, whom I had never
                    known—frail children who had come and gone like a summer breeze. They had romped in the
                    halls of the old home and the rooms had echoed with their laughter. They had sat by the grate and
                    read the books as I was doing and perhaps they too had felt the same shivery fascination in the
                    presence of the little spiral stairway. Their shadowy forms were all about me for they still lived
                    in the hearts and thoughts of the two old people and their little books left behind brought them
                    very close to me also.
            Always a punctual household, five o'clock found us at the evening meal in the pleasant and
                    neatly carpeted basement kitchen. The dining room across the hall, like the double parlors on the
                    floor above, was used for company on state occasions only. The meal was a simple one, for Swiss ways
                    completely characterized this home, the "hired girl", a daughter of some
                    respectable farmer, sat at table with us. Of the food, all I remember is the ginger cake,
                    grandmother's specialty, made by her old mother's Swiss recipe, and the weak tea,
                    called by grandfather "Cambric Tea," which was vastly important to me for at home
                    I was never allowed anything stronger than milk.
            The meal finished, the day was all but ended for me, for it was not long until the church bells,
                    Baptist, Methodist,  and Presbyterian, began calling their
                    respective flocks to evening worship. Like sheep we all knew our bells and responded. With the first
                    stroke of the Baptist bell, grandfather took up his lantern, and with a long paper lighter caught
                    the flame from the grate and lighted it—matches were for use in summer and at night when
                    there was no open fire. At other times, they were an extravagance. On the mantle stood a vase which
                    grandmother always kept filled with lighters, made from narrow strips of newspaper, either twisted
                    or folded and fringed at one end to catch the flame more easily. These lighters were a part of our
                    daily life, one of the first things we learned to make.
            When bundled up and ready to start, leaving grandmother to her thoughts by the fire, grandfather
                    gently patted her on the cheek and with his fine smile said with his quaint french accent:
                    "Good bye Mudder". She smiled back at him all aglow, for fifty years of these
                    little attentions had failed to dim their freshness or cool their warmth, so enduring was the love
                    that united these two.
            Then we went out into the night, stately white haired man and little girl, hand in hand, while from
                    his unengaged hand swung the lantern. The streets were dark and the way was rough. Street lamps were
                    few and scattered, and, being petroleum lamps, their light did not penetrate far into the darkness.
                    The street crossings were made of ashes with stepping stones where the mud was particularly deep.
                    There were a few sidewalks in the town and these few were made of rough limestone slabs, just as
                    they were brought down from the hills, so one was in danger of stumping one's toes and
                    falling. In consequence, Sunday nights and prayer meeting nights saw the streets full of the bobbing
                    lanterns of good church people. On other nights, only the young and frivolous ventured taking their
                    chances without lanterns as a rule.
            In Winter the lanterns were needed to keep out of mud holes, and in Summer to keep from falling over
                    the cows lying about in the streets and lazily chewing their cuds. Few were the inhabitants not able
                    to own a cow, but pastures were scarce. However, as the streets were wide and covered with a growth
                    of thick blue grass, they were used by the poorer inhabitants as cow pastures.
            
            A short walk of two squares brought us to the church, where I slipped into the front pew with my
                    mother while Grandfather took his place in the amen-corner. At the Sunday morning service on
                    pleasant days, this amen-corner with its group of old folks was picturesque and characterized by a
                    quaint old world atmosphere. There was grandfather, in Prince Albert coat of finest
                    broadcloth—a week day as well as Sunday garb. Grandmother, never much out of date, was
                    dressed in black with perhaps some colored flowers in her bonnet. Aunt Augusteen, a first edition of
                    grandmother, though several years her senior, was enough like her to have been her twin. Their
                    resemblance was so striking that many little anecdotes were told about them. One was that Aunt
                    Augustine going into grandfather's store one day passed a mirror and nodded saying,
                    "Good morning Justine". After making her purchase she looked about in surprise
                    asking what became of Justine, still quite unaware that she had greeted her own reflection in the
                    mirror.
            There was also Aunt Zella Thiebauld who gave the note of piquancy and color to the group. She was
                    small and vivacious, interspersing French with her English while talking and at the same time
                    gesticulating with her hands and bobbing her head. She wore hooped skirts of silk in fancy stripes
                    of black, blue and tan, around not lengthwise of the skirt, and gay flowers decorated her bonnet.
                    Hoop skirts were long out of style but not for Aunt Zella, who had worn them when she was young, and
                    now that she was old she still wore them, for the silk of those days did not wear out. She always
                    carried a lantern on moonlight nights just the same as on dark nights although she lived on Main
                    Street not two blocks from the church. The fourth wife of Uncle Charles Thiebauld, and sister of his
                    second wife, she was aunt as well as stepmother to most of his children. After his death, she lived
                    with his son Jimmy, who was both merry and hospitable. Thinking to give her a great pleasure, he
                    planned a surprise party for her on one of her birthdays. Called down to meet the assembled
                    relatives and friends, she swept the room with a glance, poured out a volley of French, turned on
                    her heel, marched up stairs again, shut and locked her door to appear no more that day and her  birthday dinner had to be celebrated without her. Surprise
                    parties did not go with hoop skirts and she felt that this one was an insult to her dignity. She was
                    one of the most outstanding French characters in the town.
            Three humble figures made up the remainder of the amen-corner group which really formed the most
                    democratic part of the church. The three included an old grey-haired man, a day laborer, stooped and
                    more or less feeble, and two maiden sisters clothed in rusty black dresses with full skirts. They
                    wore bonnets, draped with thin shabby veils, a style left over from the forties. These old ladies
                    were known to the community as Aunt Lovey and Aunt Betty. They lived in a shabby, little
                    frame-house, where for years they had supported themselves by weaving rag carpets, or rather Aunt
                    Lovey had supported them, for Aunt Betty had a particular aversion to work. She always said as she
                    rocked to and fro in her chair: "When Aunt Lovey ain't here no more to do the work
                    I'm goin to the Poor Farm," little dreaming that she was uttering a true prophecy.
                    In the course of time, it came about that Aunt Lovey was called to her long home, and in bitterness
                    of soul Aunt Betty did end her days at the Poor Farm. She did not like to work, but she loved to
                    sing and never missed an opportunity on prayer meeting nights to start her favorite hymn in a high
                    pitched nasal voice.
            
                    Life is such a bitter thing, A journey to the tomb, All that is mortal will soon Be closed in
                        death's cold arms.
                
            She sang it solo for no one could get her particular key or make the song seem half so bitter. When
                    ingrain carpets began to take the place of rag carpets, work grew scarce for Aunt Lovey, and the
                    sisters had to have some assistance. They virtually constituted the total poor of the Church for
                    whom the Communion Sunday offering was taken. Besides, once a year the church visited them in a body
                    with pound party donations of staple goods of which soap always formed a prominent feature. The poor
                    old souls were more prone to godliness than cleanliness and somehow in spite of free soap the dark
                    creases in their wrinkled old faces never grew less noticeable.
            In the body of the church, there were other interesting characters. Cousin Lou Thiebauld, a son of
                    Uncle Charles  and a step-son of Aunt Zella, had a face that was
                    long and narrow, its length being accentuated by a chin beard. With the nervous intensity and
                    vivacity of the French, as he listened to the sermon, his face registered in quick succeeding
                    flashes his approval or disapproval. Ever and again he would raise to his face to inhale its
                    fragrance the little nosegay which he always carried from the first flower of 
                        Spring
                     to the last blossoms or leaves of Autumn. Tall and spare, on his arm he always carried
                    a cane which he never seemed to use, but it was always handy should it become necessary.
            An unusual figure was Mrs. Hoffman, a mulatto. Her yellow wrinkled face was full of goodness and
                    kindness. In the back of the church, under the gallery were seats reserved for the few pious negroes
                    of the community, but Mrs. Hoffman sat in the body of the church with the quality. She had been the
                    slave of a rich 
                        Kentucky
                     planter, who had brought her with their children across the 
                        Ohio
                     and settled them on a farm on Plum Creek a few miles above. The prefix
                    "Mrs." was hers by courtesy only. How the pious church people of the community
                    reconciled to their conventional code the habit of thinking of this old mulatto as Mrs. Hoffman
                    cannot be explained, for she was not a penitent. She had lived her life and been happy and had not
                    spoiled it by vain repentance afterwards. She was respected by all. On Sundays her neat buggy and
                    well groomed mare could always be seen before the church door, while on week-days it stood at the
                    gates of the best families. She delivered butter, eggs, and chickens to her customers and often sat
                    down for a little chat.
            Once a year this privileged woman of color entertained the Ladies Aid and set before them large
                    platters of fried chicken, with hot biscuit, jellies, preserves, and that great variety of good
                    things that the colored people of her kind have such a knack of preparing. She busied herself with
                    serving and would never sit at table with them. Just so, it was said, she had served her master,
                    who, until he died, often spent weeks at a time with her. She gave liberally to the church, adding a
                    special gift to the pastor at Christmas time. Now her children were grown and had gone away. They
                    paid the price for the father's sin. Since they were too good for one race and not high
                    enough for the other of the community,  they were lonely and
                    went afield to seek and find their kind in larger communities.
            Grandfather was superintendent of the Sunday School. It is said that he was absent only twice in
                    thirty years. He provided the money for the Sunday School prizes for regular attendance and the
                    memorizing of Bible verses as well as for the candy for the Christmas treat out of his own pocket.
                    The latter was one of his greatest pleasures. With the same pleasure that he bought the candy for
                    the children's Christmas treat, he bought numbers of tickets which he sent to those,
                    especially widows and orphans, whom he thought hardly able to spend their own money. He loved
                    children and wanted to see them happy. He moved among them radiating a benign influence. He spoke
                    sublime truths in simple language. One morning his theme was love. He admonished us to love Jesus,
                    to love our parents, to love one another and to love our Superintendant. At this point to his
                    delight and the great amusement of the rest of the school, a soulfull little voice from the infant
                    class piped up with: "Why grandfather, I love you." It was the truth.
            On week days, I never went home from school without first going to the store to greet him where he
                    stood behind his high desk in his office at the back of the store. The place was often full of
                    men—farmers, selling produce, borrowing money or asking advice—but there was
                    always a welcome for the little girl, a kiss and a gentle pat on the head. As I sped away satisfied,
                    I often heard him answer their queries with: "That's Ben's
                    youngest." I could not know the pain at the old man's heart for the loss of that
                    son who was to have been the prop of his old age, and on whose broad shoulders he was beginning to
                    rest his large business interests. The realization came only later at grandfather's death.
                    That was the first great sorrow to cross my path, for, at my father's going, I was too
                    young to realize its significance.
            Grandmother's interest in the Church was just as great as grandfather's, but her
                    strength was failing and she did not take such an active a part. It was she who always thought of
                    the little things that add so much to the daily happiness of others. When she called on the
                    pastor's wife, and that was often, she never left without slipping a bill into her hand for
                    some little luxury that she might crave. It was done as 
                    secretly as possible so there could be no chance for a word of thanks or an opportunity for anyone
                    else to notice it. She visited us in all of our childhood sicknesses and never came empty handed. In
                    addition to other good things she was sure to bring oranges—a rare treat in those days.
                    Her visits were rather stately affairs, which no one took lightly. For that hour grandfather laid
                    aside all his business. Good old Fanny was ordered hitched to the broad seated rig of many years
                    service and with grandmother seated at his side, grandfather would pick up the reins, give a cluck,
                    and a slap on Fanny's broad back with a rein. She would start off at a brisk trot never
                    slacking her pace until she stood at the door of the big house on the hill.
            If possible mother always met them at the front door and escorted them upstairs. In those big
                    unheated halls there could be no question of laying aside wraps, but inside one of the big bedrooms
                    she would take grandfather's silk hat and grandmother's cloak, and after a cheery
                    word at the bedside of the patient they would sit down comfortably by the grate fire for a short
                    chat on family affairs. Always the talk drifted into church matters, which lay close to their
                    hearts. Before taking leave grandmother never failed to ask the patient what delicacy she might
                    crave and, if possible, she always procured it.
            Once when my mother lay very ill in her delirium she asked for lemons and a cone of loaf sugar. The
                    lemons were easily procured but not the sugar in that form. Grandmother had 
                        Cincinnati
                     searched until finally in a small German shop in an outlying district a cone of sugar
                    was found. When mother recovered, she was greatly surprised to find this cone on the table at her
                    bedside, a form of sugar she had not seen for years. The cone was no better than the sugar which we
                    always used, but grandmother had gone to no end of trouble to satisfy the fancy of a sick brain. It
                    was this same kindly spirit and thought for the comfort and welfare of the families of future
                    generations of Baptist preachers that prompted her shortly before her death to deed the brick house
                    next to the Baptist Church to the trustees for a parsonage.
            Many years have passed since these two old people sat in the "amen-corner" of the 
                        Vevay
                     Baptist Church and so lovingly watched over its destiny. To the little town, the  years have brought many changes leaving only a memory of the
                    man who from 1850 to 1880 was known all up and down the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     rivers as "the Hay King." The firm of U. P. Schenck & Son had
                    the largest warehouse between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                     and was the largest shipper of produce. The partners in this firm were the moving
                    spirits in every business undertaking in 
                        Vevay
                    —the First National Bank, the Furniture Factory, the Woolen Mills, and the
                    Chair Factory. Of these, the only one left is the First National Bank.
            It was a great privilege to know those fine old people—Ulysses and Justine Schenck. They
                    were of such upright and sterling character, that they, with many others of their generation, stand
                    out apart. The question often arises, "shall we see their like again?"
         
         
         
            Indiana's First Newspaper
            ELIZABETH M. DENEHIE
            
            In thousands of Indiana homes today, some member of the family assumes the responsibility of bringing
                    in the newspaper from the front porch or from under the barberry bush where an unruly wind has
                    tossed it. Lucky the individual who gets the first peep at the front page, the sports'
                    section, the comic strips, or whatever individual taste may dictate. Daily distribution of both
                    morning and evening newspapers is enjoyed in almost every city, while in smaller places, or even in
                    the country, at least one daily paper brings news of local happenings as well as that from remote
                    corners of the world to all who can read.
            We live in a busy world and are often forgetful of the trail-blazers who made the daily paper. This
                    effort is but an appreciative gesture—a tribute to Elihu Stout, who unassisted and with
                    patient toil, one hundred and thirty one years ago, issued the first number of the Indiana Gazette, the first newspaper published in Indiana. This journal, thus founded,
                    with slight interruptions and an early change of name, has continued for a century and more, and
                    therefore has the distinction of being an outstanding pioneering effort.
            Elihu Stout, the son of Judiah and Mary Stout, was born on April 16, 1782, in Newark, 
                        New Jersey
                    . At an early age, he learned the printer's trade. Judiah Stout fought in the
                    American Revolution, and, ten years after its close, feeling the urge of migrating towards the West,
                    which was then anywhere beyond the Alleghenies, he and his family joined the increasing tide,
                    crossed the mountains and settled at 
                  Lexington,
                            Kentucky
               . Here young Elihu obtained
                    employment on the 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Gazette, published by the Bradfords, comfortable and wealthy, who became
                    intimate friends of 
                        Henry
                        Clay
                    . Ambitious to edit a newspaper of his own, and having faith in the Northwest, he left 
                        Kentucky
                     to solicit aid for his undertaking but found little. Undaunted he came to 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1803, there to try his fortunes. Governor William Henry Harrison equipped a boat for
                    young Stout in which he journeyed back to 
                  Frankfort,
                            Kentucky
               , by way of the
                            
                  Wabash, Ohio
               , and 
                        Kentucky
                     rivers where he obtained an outfit including a wooden press.
            
            To appreciate the difficulties that confronted Elihu Stout, it is necessary to consider the handicaps
                    of a hundred fifty years ago in Indiana. There were no roads leading from 
                        Vincennes
                     to the East at that time. The people were poor. They depended largely upon their own
                    produce from the soil and the forests for the necessaries of life. Money was extremely difficult to
                    obtain and some of it worth less than its face value. Hence the first issue of the Indiana Gazette, on July 31, 1804, in the face of all these obstacles, has a deep
                    significance. It was the urge for expression that motivated the young man of twenty-two years, and
                    the desire to contact the hardy pioneers who were to ask for admission to the 
                        Union
                     only twelve years later.
            A lengthy but definite statement of the rules governing subscriptions to the Indiana
                        Gazette appeared in a number of early issues: 
                        
                     I. It shall be published weekly on medium paper.
                     II. The price to subscribers will be two dollars and fifty cents, payable half yearly
                                in advance. Those who do not come forward at the expiration of the first six months, and
                                make the second advance, will be charged with an additional fifty cents.
                     III. No subscriber taken for a term less than one year unless he pays the whole term
                                of his subscription in advance.
                     IV. Wherever papers are sent by post, the person subscribing must pay the postage.1
                     
                  
                     The Gazette carried as a motto a quotation from Thomas Paine:
                    "Independence is my happiness, and I relate things as they are, without respect to place or
                    persons."
            The words of Elihu Stout which were addressed to his readers in the first number of the Gazette exemplify his high purpose: 
                        At length after great trouble and much expense the Public is presented with the first number
                            of the Indiana Gazette. Without deviating from the general rule of
                            Newspaper Printers, in the first number the Editor addresses the Public, and lays down the
                            principles which shall govern the publication. His object shall be to collect and publish
                            such information as will give a correct account of the productions and natural advantages of
                            the Territory, to give the latest foreign and domestic intelligence—Original
                            Essays, Political, Moral, Literary, Agricultural, and on Domestic Economics—to
                            collect such fugitive literary productions as will tend to raise "The genius or to
                            mend 
                        
                           1
                                    Indiana Gazette, Aug. 7, 1804.
                     
                             the heart", etc., etc., shall be the second.
                            The political complection of the paper shall be truly republican but it shall never be
                            prostituted to party. … The Editor pledges himself that the columns of the Gazette will never be tarnished with matter that can offend the eye of
                            decency, or raise a blush upon the cheek of modesty and virtue. …2
                  
                    
            
            With the optimism of a young man, Stout probably did not foresee many of the difficulties to be met.
                    For example, a printer had not only to get news and paper but he had to get paid. The first paper
                    mill in the West was completed in 1793 at Georgetown, 
                        Kentucky
                    , quite a distance from 
                        Vincennes
                    . Early journals of the West were sometimes printed on brown wrapping paper. Tradition
                    has it that a frontier newspaper was once printed with swamp mud for ink and run off on a cider
                    mill. Sometimes only one side of the paper was used. Then after being read by the subscriber, the
                    sheet was supposed to be returned to the printer in order that he might run off the next issue on
                    the reverse side. Currency was scarce and editors frequently announced that they would take produce
                    in exchange for the paper. Maple sugar, jeans, tow-linen, oats, corn-meal, chickens, deer meat, coon
                    skins, and fire-wood were among the commodities that were prone to reach the printer. Many years
                    after he founded his paper, Editor Stout was compelled to give his subscribers the following in the
                    issue of May 8, 1829: "Want of paper compels me to furnish my readers with but half a
                    sheet. I expect a supply before another publication day."
            In April, 1806, a great misfortune overtook the adventurous editor, when his plant was destroyed by
                    fire. The spirit of Stout was not subdued, but he immediately set out for 
                        Kentucky
                     determined to prepare for a new venture. While in 
                        Kentucky
                    , he obtained another press and a supply of paper which he carried to 
                        Vincennes
                     on pack mules over the rude road that followed the old Buffalo Trace. It was more than
                    a year after the fire before it was possible to resume publication.
            On July 4, 1807, the first issue of the Western Sun is said to have appeared,
                    succeeding the short-lived Indiana Gazette. During one hundred three of the years
                    of its existence 
                  
                     2 Ibid., July 31, 1804, quoted in Mary Walker Alden, The
                                Beginnings of Printing in the State of Indiana, 14. The first issue of the Gazette is missing from the file in the Indiana State Library. The issue
                            of Aug. 7 is there, which paper is designated as No. 2, and the statement is made that the
                            first issue appeared on July 31.
               
                     the Sun has been in the hands of three
                    families. The daily edition was started in 1879 by R. E. Purcell. The first copy of the Western Sun that is preserved in the Indiana State Library is that of July 11, 1807, which
                    issue is designated as number 2. If the first issue was published one week earlier, it came out on
                    July 4.
            Some matter from the columns of the issue of the Indiana Gazette and Western Sun in the early years may be of interest to readers. An early issue of the Gazette carried a poem dedicated
            TO A GLASS OF WINE
            
                    Thou canst make the heart of man rejoice, Make blind men fancy they can all things see, To
                        taciturnity canst give a voice; And cause e'en infidels to bend the knee; 'Tis
                        pleasant to behold the, tempting juice, More pleasant still thy flavour to enjoy; But much I
                        fear thou smilest to seduce, And I suspect thou charmest to destroy: A painted sepulchre thou
                        sometimes art, Disease and death may lurk beneath that guise, Or like a Basilisk, thy look may
                        dart Death to morals,—yet the good and wise Say thou hast virtue too; then let me
                        try; Since they have proved thy virtues; So will I.3
               
                
            Governor William Henry Harrison's friends in Indiana territory took pride in his importance
                    and achievements. In December, 1811, the members of the Legislative Council and House of
                    Representatives drew up a joint public address to the Governor, which, carrying the signature of the
                    President of the Council (James Beggs) and of the Speaker of the House (Gen'l W. Johnston),
                    was published in the Western Sun. The heading of the address
                    ran—"To His Excellency, William Henry Harrison, Governor and Commander in Chief
                    in and over Indiana Territory". The address follows: 
                        When in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for a nation to unsheath the sword
                            in defence of any portion of its citizens—and any individual of society becomes
                            intrusted with the important charge of leading an army of his country into the field to
                            scourge the assailants of its rights—and it is proved by the success of the army
                            that, that individual possesses superior capacity accompanied 
                        
                           3
                                    Indiana Gazette, Aug. 7, 1804.
                     
                             by integrity and other qualities of the mind, which
                            adorn the human character in a superlative degree. It has a tendency to draw out the
                            affections of the people in a way that must be grateful to the soldier and the man. Such is
                            the light, sir, in which you have the honor to be viewed by your country, and one which the
                            Legislative Council and House of Representatives of the Territory, think you justly entitled
                            to.
                        And, sir, in duly appreciating your services, we are perfectly sensible of the great benefits
                            and important service rendered by the officers and soldiers of the 
                                United States
                             infantry under your command. And it is with pleasure we learn that the officers
                            and militia men of our country acted with a heroism more than could be reasonably calculated
                            upon from men (such as they generally were) undisciplined, and unaccustomed to war.
                        
                     Resolved, that a joint committee attend to the insertion of the fore-going
                            address in the Western Sun for one week.
                        James Beggs, President of the Legislative Council.
                        Gen'l W. Johnston, Speaker of the House of Representatives.4
                  
                    
            
            On Saturday, May 22, 1819, the Sun reprinted from the National
                        Intelligencer of 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., a "Bird's Eye View of State Politics" in Indiana.
                    Said the Intelligencer: 
                        Politics in Indiana are, in a great measure, personal contests. The latest agitation of her
                            statesmen that we have heard of, is the oppugnation of the lieutenant governor to Governor
                            Jennings' acting as negotiator of Indian treaties under an appointment from the
                            President of the 
                                United States
                            . The lieutenant governor, considering the governor as having forfeited the
                            throne, seized upon the reins of authority, as heir apparent, and sequestered the seal of
                            the common-welath. Gov. 
                                Jennings
                            , returning from diplomatic converse with the Indians, walked very deliberately
                            into the secretary of state's office, put the seal into his breeches pocket, hinted
                            that kings and rulers were not accountable to frail mortality, & cooly walked away,
                            and probably whistling lillabullero! The People, we presume, will settle
                            the dispute.
                    
            
            The Western Sun and its predecessor (Indiana Gazette) along with
                    other early Indiana newspapers contain much valuable history of pioneer days. The story of
                    Fulton's Folly, his first steamboat, was published in 1807. Five years later the War of
                    1812 began, furnishing exciting news. The accounts of battles, campaigns, and the burning of the 
                        White
                     House supplied fascinating reading. In 1815, 
                        Jackson
                     defeated the British at 
                        New Orleans
                     presenting a theme for editors of which much was made. Indiana was admitted to the 
                        Union
                     in 1816. Steamboat traffic on the inland rivers 
                  
                     4
                            Western Sun, Dec. 7, 1811.
               
                     expanded rapidly. 
                        Mexico
                     won her independence from 
                        Spain
                    . After a few years railroad building was started. Indeed the reader of every early
                    Hoosier newspaper finds a great deal of matter that is not only very interesting but well worth
                    perusal. The Western Sun chronicled all these important events as history unfolded
                    itself.
            Stout and other editors were makers of public opinion in Indiana. Their editorial efforts were fairly
                    good. Dr. Logan Esarey says of their immediate successors: "The old-time editorial of the
                    forties and fifties had a literary style and flavor which one misses in the present day newspaper.
                    Not one of these editors built up a personal following which enabled him to dictate either
                    politically or otherwise".5
            
            The modest little Indiana Gazette of 1804 blazed the trail for many Hoosier
                    newspapers. By 1854 there were in Indiana twelve daily, two tri-weekly, one hundred twenty-one
                    weekly, one fortnightly and six monthly newspapers. From any of these it seems a far cry, indeed, to
                    the newspapers of today. Whereas the Indiana Gazette reached at most a few hundred
                    subscribers the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star passes into the hands of about 150,000 daily. Nevertheless Hoosiers owe a
                    debt of gratitude to the intrepid young editor, Elihu Stout, whose invasion of the Old Northwest
                    with his printing-press is second in importance only to the coming of George Rogers Clark.
            
               
                  5 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (Third Edition,
                        1924), LI, 1109.
            
         
         
         
            An Autobiography
            GEORGE S. COTTMAN
            
            I was born May 10, 1857, in the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , within a stone's throw of the old state house—which contiguity, I
                    have always maintained, entitled me to be classed as a thorough Hoosier. When I was still a child my
                    father moved his family to a farm which he owned, lying in the neighborhood of the present
                            
                  Beech Grove, Marion
                            County
               , and that was my home for more than twenty years, or until we
                    moved to 
                        Irvington
                    , then a suburb, politically independent of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Meanwhile, I did various things other than the humdrum duties of a farmer lad, one of them being to
                    serve for three years as a printer's apprentice in the job office of the old 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel. This was well worth the time spent for though I did not cleave to the
                    trade as a life business it helped me in more ways than one. In the first place, since my formal
                    scholastic education did not extend beyond the simple curriculum of a country district school, I
                    found that a post-graduate course in a printing office, especially when supplemented by a good free
                    library, played no small part in widening my mental horizon. So I rather like to regard myself as an
                    alumnus of the Sentinel printing office, of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library, and, somewhat later, of the Indiana State Library. Again, when in
                    obedience to an inborn wanderlust I made divers excursions out into this glorious world strange
                    places to see, the good old art preservative, the hobo's true friend, made possible
                    peregrinations that otherwise would have been but dreams. Incidental to these sporadic travelings I
                    treasure the memories of many tramps with haversack and staff at the invitation of mountains and
                    lakes and of trails unknown to conventional travelers, where there were many things to be
                    discovered. One of the first of these inquisitive expeditions was the exploration of 
                        Brown County
                    , which at that time (the early eighties) appealed to the imagination as a region of
                    unique isolation peopled by a primitive hill folk.
            Since this tabloid chronicle is a human document, regardless of the smallness of its subject, perhaps
                    I should weave into it all the threads that went into the making of the pattern. Be it known that
                    from the days of the district school period when I discovered a facility in the writing of
                    compositions  (done at the expense of less alluring studies), I
                    decided to become one of that innumerable host who write books and things. Reasons: It would be a
                    pleasant substitute for work and would allow me to give free rein to the aforementioned mania for
                    wandering. Then there was the thing called fame and the proud delight of occupying a pinnacle where
                    one could be seen and admired by the great world. By the time I had finished my apprenticeship at
                    the printing cases, I felt that I was ready to spring some large literary surprise on my fellow-men.
                    While preparing this surprise in divers forms, I avocated as a farmer. Unfortunately (for himself)
                    the embryonic author cannot wreak himself upon the public without the intervening agency of the
                    editorial guild, a class of questionable intelligence and undoubted malevolence chiefly notorious
                    for the habit of returning manuscripts accompanied by "regret slips". They should
                    know that bank checks would conduce much more to the popularity of editors. One of my souvenirs of
                    those sad, postage consuming days is a scrap-book filled with return slips of various styles.
            Eventually a new idea came my way. Evidently there was a missing factor in this long range
                    bombardment of the literary market with its succint and cold-blooded responses. That factor was the
                    need of direct application of a magnetic personality to the editorial frigidity. And so it was that
                    my first invasion of 
                        New York
                     City was with a gripsack full of my choice manuscripts with which to beard the
                    purveyors of literature in their dens. Which I did. Contemporaneously with this bearding I provided
                    for my personal upkeep by setting type at twenty cents per thousand ems, and as I consumed this
                    revenue almost as fast as I acquired it, and it was a long way back to Indiana, I did not soon see
                    my happy home again. Fortunately there was then no income tax such as we have in these days.
            Subsequently I really found a way to circumvent the autocracy of the editors. After 
                        Irvington
                     became my place of residence, I turned to the printing trade once more, this time by
                    investing in a one-man printery, which I installed on the home premises. Then on the side, and as
                    the primary vocation of job printing permitted, I ventured to launch out as my own book publisher
                    and issued a modest brochure containing a collection of nature sketches that lay near my heart. 
                    Hours with Nature, I called it, and its reception among like-minded people was so
                    cordial that I was encouraged to try three or four other booklets of similar character. Aside from
                    the zest of the ventures, the returns were so disproportionate to the time and labor involved that I
                    thought it best to forego further efforts.
            About this time I began to have better luck with the home editors than I had ever been able to evoke
                    from the haughty publishers of the effete East. The good old Indiana Farmer, under
                    J. G. Kingsbury, took me to its bosom, and within the tomb of its now forgotten files repose not a
                    few stories, both short and serial, contributed by me as pictures of Indiana farm life or of pioneer
                    days; likewise miscellaneous articles galore addressed to my rural audience. Also the now defunct
                    but still remembered 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, one of the best journalistic friends Indiana writers ever had, bade me
                    welcome to its columns, as did the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Press, which, under the proprietorship of John H. Holliday, led a lively existence
                    for one year. I never held a staff position on any of these newspapers, unless an engagement with
                    the News at one time to furnish historical articles on demand might be called a
                    staff job. The selective freedom of a free lance writer best comported with my mental makeup, and my
                    preserved scrapbooks will testify to that freedom, though a great many of the contributions were
                    hooked up in some way with local history.
            This brings me to a consideration of what small service, if any, I may have done in behalf of local
                    history. I believe I harbor no illusions on that question. I am at best but part historian, for
                    there are in that field areas many and extensive that are to me drearily arid; for example, that
                    hypothetical unraveling of long-buried questions, that must always remain hypothetical, and which,
                    if once accepted really interest nobody. The happenings of time, to my mind, may roughly be regarded
                    as falling into two classes. One aspect is the flux and flow which crowds upon us every day, most of
                    which must by the very plenitude of the harvest be relegated to oblivion. The other aspect is of
                    those features of the time stream that reveal the workings of cause and effect, and that invest with
                    significance the mutations of the world. Then there is the 
                    picturesque element—the resurrection of the archaic and quaint and novel that casts a
                    grace over existence.
            Whether or not this historical classification will stand rigid criticism, it was the theory that
                    originally won me to an interest in the subject, and the one to which I have ever since adhered. As
                    a newspaper space filler ever in search of good copy, I found that few special topics offered a
                    richer mine than does history with its veins of romance, adventure, human interest stories, or what
                    you will. One danger in it to history itself and to the writer who respects his own honesty is the
                    temptation to substitute loose statements or downright fiction for fact. My observation is that
                    newspapers as a rule care only for the story, in writing of this kind, and bother little about the
                    truth of it. The consequence is that leaden-footed truth seldom overtakes the flying feet of fancy.
                    Rob history of its verity and Clio no longer has a message.
            If the old Journal was a real friend of the literati of Indiana so was John H.
                    Holliday, of blessed memory, a Godsend to those who wanted to write local history and do it
                    creditably. Mr. Holliday himself was well grounded in Indiana history with a lively and
                    discriminating interest in the same and he knew with professional accuracy when a good piece of
                    history came his way. Moreover, he encouraged the subject by giving considerable pay space to it in
                    his columns, and not a few series of articles that subsequently found a more permanent form were
                    originally published in the News. Among these may be mentioned D. D.
                    Banta's Short History of 
                            Johnson County
                        
                and Early School Days in 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               , the most important of the journals of John Tipton, and others I cannot recall
                    off hand, all revealing real historical values.
            The relevancy of this is that the encouragement to local history afforded by such an editor as Mr.
                    Holliday, especially in the days when he controlled the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, was a healthy stimulus in a worth-while direction, and it may, I think be
                    regarded as a logical forerunner of the widespread organized movement of today. In my own case the
                    reaction was a slowly growing conviction that there should be a more permanent preservation of those
                    things of the past which innately appeal to and affect the present. To be sure, the experiment had
                    already been made by W. H. Smith, a well known local historian, and a Mr. B. L. Blair who launched a
                    magazine  called The Indianian, only to have
                    it go on the rocks ere long. But The Indianian had been somewhat ambitiously
                    conceived, being an illustrated monthly of good size, with a cost of production out of proportion to
                    its limited field. The promoters sought to finance it by selling stock at fifty dollars per share,
                    as may be poignantly remembered by those stock holders still living, but that failed to turn the
                    trick, and The Indianian became a reminiscence.
            I argued with myself, however, that there was a place for the kind of organ in question if only the
                    cost of its maintenance were reduced to a fine art. The only key to the problem seemed to be to make
                    the publication a quarterly, not too bulky, and to utilize my little printing plant as far as
                    possible in its production. Eventually (1905) I acted upon this line of reasoning and in due time
                    led forth a small and feeble infant christened with a rather big name, The Indiana
                        Quarterly Magazine of History. As the genesis of this creation has already been dealt with
                    by the author in the pages of this Magazine (December, 1929), I need not say more
                    about it here. In 1908, I relinquished the quarterly to the Indiana Historical Society, because I
                    went to the Puget Sound region expecting to remain. On my return to Indiana, I renewed the
                    editorship. I finally severed my editorial connection with the Indiana Magazine of
                        History in 1913, because I could no longer afford the luxury.
            I do not know that I need to add anything further to this subject unless it be to say by way of
                    filling out the sketch that my writings are only in part historical, including as they do fiction,
                    pageantry and miscellaneous essays. I have two books to my credit—Centennial
                        History and Handbook of Indiana (with other matter by Max Hyman), and Indiana,
                        Its History, Constitution and Present Government, now used in some of the schools. In
                    making my own evaluation of the various veins I have worked, I would place first certain descriptive
                    matter incorporated in the nature booklets which I printed myself, and in five other brochures
                    descriptive of our state parks written for the Department of Conservation.
            In 1900 I married Miss Vida C. Tibbott, of 
                        Irvington
                    , and we have one son who for some years has taught science in the high school of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. Since 1931 we have lived together on a hilltop overlooking 
                        Madison
                    . How do I  pass the time? Making light as I can of
                    my disabling ailments, dreaming of past days when I could at least make a stagger at doing things,
                    and watching the ebbing tide of time while solving the problems of the Cosmos—for several
                    of which I have not yet evolved answers.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            An event of unusual importance to archaeologists and museums is the sale of the archaeological
                    collection of the late Edward W. Payne, of 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               . Mr.
                    Payne collected this material during most of his long life, beginning at least fifty years ago. He
                    bought many extensive collections made by others earlier than that. He is said to have amassed more
                    than a million pieces of relics of the mound builders and other Indians of North America. The First
                    National Bank and the Marine Bank, of 
                        Springfield
                    , have announced the sale of all of this material piecemeal beginning August 15.
            Historical societies and museums, with rare exceptions, are the logical places for such collections.
                    Private collectors, however, often prevent the loss or destruction of valuable artifacts and other
                    relics. They would be of greater service to the historical world if they could be induced to observe
                    universially some sort of a code or agreement which would embrace, among other things: the
                    limitation of their collection largely, if not entirely, to pieces from their own locality, or even
                    state; a rigid rule of preserving with every piece full information about the location where it was
                    found, relation to other things, date of finding, etc.; reporting items collected and any other
                    archaeological information to the person or office which serves as headquarters for archaeological
                    work in the state.
            The Payne collection includes many items from Indiana. It is to be hoped that at least some of the
                    most important of these—important from the scientific view—will be returned to
                    this state as a result of the sale.
            Through the courtesy of Edwin Gholson, Librarian of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Law Library Association, the Smith Library of the Historical Society has been enabled
                    to have photostats made of Journals of the Council and of the House of Representatives of the
                    Northwest Territory for the 1799 session. This was the only session of the Legislature of the
                    Northwest Territory held while the present area of Indiana was part of that territory. The only
                    original copies in print  known are those in the libraries of
                    the Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                        Ohio
                     and the Law Library Association at 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            The pamphlet, Jacob Schramm. Letters from Indiana to 
                            Germany
                        . 1836, is in the hands of the printer and should be distributed to members of
                    the Society late in July or early in August. It is to be Number 4 of Volume 11 of the Inditna
                    Historical Society Publications.
            
            Blanks to be filled out with information about old mills have been prepared by the committee of the
                    Indiana Historical Society and can be obtained by writing to the Society, State Library and
                    Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The following letter from the former president of the 
                        Dearborn County
                     Historical Society will be of interest to the many readers of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History who know him. It is a fair illustration of the connection which many
                    Indianians who have moved away from the state keep with Indiana through the Historical Society.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Helena, Arkansas
                           
                                
                        I had the resolution of the executive committee of the Indiana Historical Society
                                    [concerning roadside planting] published in a recent issue of the 
                              
                                            Lawrenceburg
                                         Press.
                        
                        I am much interested in the matter of the old cemeteries. I understand 
                                        Washington County
                                     has recorded every grave possible over the entire county. Of necessity
                                    there must be many where the names are unknown. Especially will this be true of the
                                    burial places in the older counties along the 
                                        Ohio
                                     river. The farm on which I was born, for instance—two miles
                                    back of 
                                        Vevay
                                    —a quarter section—had an old cemetery of perhaps
                                    over 12 graves none of which ever had a headstone with name and date of person
                                    buried. My parents moved from 
                                        Vevay
                                     there in 1838 and I think it was entered at 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     land office in 1814. A farm adjoining had, as near as memory serves me,
                                    as many as four places where burials had been made. Its owner had a half section he
                                    had bought from several previous owners. In those earliest days with many families
                                    just squatters there was no way to secure a good headstone. It is an undertaking in
                                    those 
                                        Ohio
                                     river counties, that is 100 years too late, to get a record of more
                                    than 30 or 40 per cent of the persons buried.
                        
                                    Yours
                                    Archibald Shaw
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum
            HINTS ON HOBBIES FOR HIGH SCHOOL CLUBS
            LEONARD S. KENWORTHY
            
            The window display in a nearby book store which the writer passes frequently is now featuring a
                    series of pamphlets on hobbies, including one on The Care and Feeding of Hobby
                    Horses, in which over two hundred pastimes ranging from local archaeology to backyard zoos are
                    discussed. On first thought these leisure time activities may bear little relationship to the high
                    school history department, but on further thought a very direct bearing should be seen. Hobbies are
                    a comparatively new feature of the school program which fascinate a large group of students not
                    otherwise reached. There is no reason why this interest cannot be transferred to the regular
                    classroom work or incorporated in the history club activities.
            In every community there are men and women whose spare time is spent in some useful hobby, who would
                    be glad to share their enthusiasm and knowledge with high school students, if called in to the
                    history club for an exhibit or talk. For example, there may be a man who has a collection of Indian
                    arrow heads picked up on his own farm, there may be someone particularly interested in period
                    furniture, or a coin collector with some valuable Confederate or greenback money.
            No more interesting program could be arranged than one enjoyed recently by the writer when he heard a
                    business man talk on the German paper money he had collected during the inflation period following
                    the war. In his collection were bills printed by cities noted for the making of chamois, therefore
                    chamois money; bills made by cities where silk was the chief industry, hence silk money; and bills
                    made by cities where the Quakers were carrying on child feeding, and consequently called 
                        Quaker
                     money. Such men are proud of their collections and usually eager to exhibit them.
            Many students have already developed hobbies of their own but as yet have failed to realize all the
                    values to be derived from them. Their value would be enhanced by showing the relationship they bear
                    to their more formal studies, including history. No better example of this plan can be found than
                    the popular pastime of stamp collecting. It is a hobby  that can
                    help students in a tangible way, for "the history of our national postage is a history of
                    the 
                        United States
                     for the past century". The historical value of stamp collections has been
                    covered in an extremely interesting manner by such books as K. B. Stiles, Geography and
                        Stamps; A. F. Harlow, Old Post Bags: The Story of the Sending of a Letter in
                        Ancient and Modern Times; S. I. Rothschild Stamps of Many Lands, The
                    inexpensive Leisure League's booklet on Stamp Collecting may be procured
                    by those interested.
            There yet remains another group open to suggestions for developing new hobbies such as the collecting
                    of historical advertisements. It is safe to assert that no magazine appears without some
                    advertisement which harks back to some historical incident or fact. A recent double-page automobile
                    advertisement discussed "The Evolution of the Automobile"; another carried a full
                    page painting in color of the "Landing of Captain Cook at Botony Bay in 1770";
                    while the startling caption of an insurance company's effort at attractiveness read as
                    follows: "Every policyholder owes a debt to Queen Elizabeth", which was followed
                    by a discussion of the first charter to such a company. Perhaps the most startling and helpful
                    historical advertisement to appear recently was a double-page picture in color representing progress
                    in modes of travel throughout the world from ancient to modern times. So one might continue to list
                    the material available for starting the fascinating and educational hobby of collecting historical
                    advertisements.
            There are no doubt a great many persons interested in local and state history because of some small
                    piece of research done while high school or college students, which later developed into hobbies.
                    According to the student's interests, the sponsor of a history club can often encourage the
                    use of spare time in delving into local history or biography. Then too, the whole club can
                    profitably devote several meetings to the study of famous Hoosiers, such as the biographies of Janet
                    Scudder or W. M. Chase in art; the Wright brothers in aviation; Ida Husted Harper in the realm of
                    women's rights; Abbott, Rives, or Bowers in history; William Vaughn Moody, Theodore
                    Dreiser, George Ade or many others that might be mentioned in the field of literature.
            This same biographical scheme may be extended to almost any field. One particularly interesting and
                    profitable  field would be that of famous American immigrants as
                    Angelo Patri, Louis Agassiz, Walter Damrosch, Michael Pupin, Edward Bok, Carl Schurz, John Muir,
                    Alexander Bell or anyone of scores of others.
            This approach to the study of history through the use of hobbies should be profitable in many ways.
                    First of all it offers a new and variable approach to the field of history, thereby helping to
                    eliminate the monotony of repetition in different years, especially in American history. In the
                    second place it correlates history study with the activities program. Similarly it helps to correct
                    the mistaken impression held by some students that history is not an integral part of the every day
                    knowledge needed in understanding events around them. In the fourth place it develops a lasting
                    interest in history by starting the student out on what may become a life-time hobby. Likewise, it
                    may appeal to some group of students hard to reach, because they are interested in contemporary life
                    rather than history. This sort of work shows them some direct relationships between the present and
                    the past. It is to be hoped that teachers will more and more embrace the opportunity to use
                    extra-curricular activities to increase the interest of their students in history.
         
         
         
            Document
            JOHN BROWN AND SONS IN KANSAS TERRITORY
            SALMON BROWN
            
            
                    Foreword
                
            Salmon Brown was the last of the many sons of John Brown of Osawatomie to die. He participated in the
                    stirring events that occurred in 
                        Kansas
                     Territory, but was opposed to the Harper's Ferry project of his father and had
                    no part in it. After the opening of the Civil War, he raised a company of men at North Elba, 
                        New York
                    , during the winter of 1861–1862. The recruits were afraid, however, to go to 
                        Virginia
                     for service under a son of John Brown, so no commission was received and Salmon Brown
                    remained a private citizen. Having married in 1859, the family migrated to 
                        California
                     during the Civil War where they lived for almost a quarter of a century, when they
                    moved to 
                  Portland, Oregon
               .
            Dr. Linneus N. Hines, until recently President of the Indiana State Teachers' College at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , went to 
                        Portland
                     in 1917 to attend the National Educational Association. Learning before his departure
                    from Indiana that a son of John Brown was living in 
                        Portland
                    , Dr. Hines hunted up the plain but comfortable home of Salmon Brown and became
                    acquainted with the old gentleman and his wife. Finding that his mind was clear and that he thought
                    about the violence of the 
                        Kansas
                     conflict without passion or rancor, Dr. Hines urged this last reviving son of John
                    Brown to prepare an account of the 
                        Kansas
                     struggle. With the aid of a daughter, Mrs. Ethel Brown Chamberlain, the following
                    narrative was written and sent to Dr. Hines, about a year before the death of the author, which
                    occurred on May 10, 1919, in 
                  Portland, Oregon
               . Through the kindness of Dr. Hines, the
                    interesting story, save for the omission of the first section, as it came from the lips of Salmon
                    Brown and was written down by his daughter is presented to the readers of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History.—Editor.
            
            
            [THE NARRATIVE]
               1
            
            
                    BORDER COURT OFFENSIVE
                    In the 
                            Spring
                         of 1856 we were all very busy building houses and doing 
                            Spring
                         work, also attending free state settlement meetings. The free state men had a free
                        state legislature run by the bona fide settlers of the territory.2 It was
                        located at 
                            Topeka
                        . If I remember rightly, Judge Cato, of 
                            Alabama
                        , was located with his border court at Dutch Henry's Crossing of the
                            Pottawatomie.3 The free state settlers held a meeting to consider what
                        was to be done in this clash in their territorial government. There were over 100 men present,
                        including my brother John's company of nearly 100 trained men. They passed resolutions
                        to warn Cato not to try any one under the "border ruffian laws."4 My father and my brother were selected to deliver a copy of these resolutions to
                        Judge Cato. I went along to see how Cato would receive the warning. He paid no attention to it
                        but went on organizing his court. He got out warrants for all of the Browns and the members of
                        the free state legislature that were in his district. My brother John and H. H. Williams were
                        two of them. At this time Colonel Buford's men were located somewhere within two or
                        three miles a little southwest of the Pottawatomie crossing.5 My father, to
                        ascertain what their future purposes were, took his surveying instruments and flagmen and
                        chainmen and ran a line right into their camp. I carried one end of the chain. At this time all
                        of the Pierce Administration surveyors were Southern sympathizers. That made us all hail fellows
                        well met.6 The Buford men talked very freely, saying, among other things,
                        that they had come to 
                            Kansas
                         to help themselves first and the South next. And there was one thing they would
                        do—they would annihilate every one of "those damned Browns" and
                        would stand by Judge Cato "until every damned abolitionist was in hell."
                    LAWRENCE THREATENED AGAIN
                    We returned home well served up for future action. They did not 
                     
                        1 Salmon Brown and four of his brothers went from 
                                    Ohio
                                 to 
                                    Kansas
                                 Territory in the spring of 1855. They settled near Osawatomie, where their
                                father joined them in the fall of that year. The point covered in the omitted portion of
                                the narrative is the conference held in the hotel at 
                                    Lawrence
                                 at which Dr. Charles Robinson, Governor Wilson Shannon and Col. James H.
                                Lane were present. John Brown with some of his sons, including Salmon Brown, were in the
                                town, but all of them remained outside the hotel. Though Robinson and Lane were both
                                free-state leaders, there was at times considerable friction between them, but both,
                                along with Shannon, signed the agreement drawn up on Dec. 8, 1855, in the Free State
                                Hotel. (See Daniel W. Wilder, Annals of 
                                        Kansas
                                    
                        , 72).
                     
                        2 In an attempt to ignore the Territorial government, the
                                free-state men had set up a government of their own at 
                                    Topeka
                                 and were seeking statehood.
                     
                        3 Pottawatomie Creek flowed northeastward about thirty miles south
                                of 
                                    Lawrence
                                . John Brown lived on the Osage River at Osawatomie,
                                about thirty-five miles south and a little east of 
                                    Lawrence
                                , where Pottawatomie Creek flows into the Osage.
                     
                        4 Laws of the Territorial Legislature. Free-state men called the
                                Legislature, whose members were elected in 1855, a "bogus
                                Legislature", claiming that the pro-slavery men gained control of it through
                                the votes of Missourians ("border ruffians") who invaded the Territory
                                on election day.
                     
                        5 Major Jefferson Buford organized and conducted to 
                                    Kansas
                                 Territory a company of men from 
                                    Alabama
                                 to hold the free-state men in check. See Walter L. Fleming, "The
                                Buford Expedition to 
                                    Kansas
                                " in America Historical Review, VI,
                                88–48.
                     
                        6 The Browns were pretending to be surveyors in the employ of the
                                Pierce Administration.
                  
                         know at that time that they were talking to 
                            Puritan
                         stock. The warrants for the arrests were put into the hands of the Constable, who
                        was old man Doyle, and two sons who were deputies, to serve upon the whole Brown crowd, and
                        Henry Thompson, Brown's son-in-law. As soon as father heard this he sent 
                            Henry
                         Thompson and me to Cato's courthouse unarmed, ten miles away, on foot, to
                        see if they would arrest us. If we were arrested father promised to secure us next day. We
                        remained around the courtroom nearly half a day but they were not quite ready to act. I never
                        could approve of father's act in sending Thompson and myself on such a hazardous scheme
                        just to bring about the issue between freedom and slavery. I thought he trusted a little too
                        much to 
                            Providence
                        .
                    While all this was going on in the Pottawatomie region, we had another call to make haste to the
                        defense of 
                            Lawrence
                        , as the border riders were marching in force in that direction. My brother
                        John's company of Pottawatomie rifles, 100 strong, augmented with troops from the
                        surrounding country, including Osawatomie, with father's squad, made a forced march in
                        the night for the defense of 
                            Lawrence
                        .
                    HOTEL IS DESTROYED
                    We traveled all night in the dark and at daybreak in the morning we were on the top of the hills
                        south of Waukarusa, where we could see 
                            Lawrence
                         very distinctly. There were about 200 men standing there, tired and hungry, gazing
                        at the Free State hotel all in flames. Just at this time a messenger on horseback came up the
                        hill from the Waukarusa in great haste. Our men made him a prisoner at once. He said,
                        "Who are you?" We replied, "We are free state men, going to the
                        defense of 
                            Lawrence
                        ." He said, "You are the very, men I want to see and I have a
                        hurry-up call for you." He then took a paper out of his boot leg and it was read to our
                        men in the gray of the early morning. The import of the message was to hasten to save 
                            Lawrence
                        . The messenger did not know until he got to the top of the hill that 
                            Lawrence
                         was on fire.
                    This messenger told us that Senator Charles Sumner, of 
                            Massachusetts
                        , had been knocked down on the floor of the 
                            United States
                         Senate by Brooks, of 
                            South Carolina
                        . I do not think there was a tired or hungry man in that crowd as they were too much
                        excited to think of creature comforts. This messenger gave his name but I do not remember it. He
                        was soon mixed up with the other men and lost to my view. Some of our men got weak in the knees
                        and expressed the belief that the South had us whipped, and were ready to give up the fight.
                        Others were more on the fight than ever before.
                    SOME ARE FRIGHTENED
                    We all turned back to our troubles on the Pottawatomie. My brother John and some of his men had
                        freed some slaves of a man who had settled near our route back. Some of the weak-kneed ones
                        commenced a howl against the act and soon had the company all torn into shreds. They did not
                        want to mix up with "niggers" or abolitionists. In the meantime
                        father's little company went back on the road toward 
                            Ottawa
                        , Jones' place. I think, as near as I can remember, it  was about twelve miles from the Waukarusa hills to the Jones home
                        place. Near there was a station where they served meals, I think, from a tent. Anyway they had a
                        grindstone. There were a good many men there when we arrived, among them being H. H. Williams,
                        of Pottawatomie, an old comrade of my brother John, and later a resident of Osawatomie, I
                        understand. He was a very fine man but got badly cowed after he was taken to Lecompton a
                        prisoner.
                    He knew everybody on the Pottawatomie. My father told him we were going back there to break up
                        Cato's court and get away with some of his vile emissaries before they got away with
                        us. "I mean to steal a march on the slave hounds, Williams," my father said.
                        "That is just right," replied Williams, "and I will write down their
                        names," which he did. I stood within two feet of him when he gave the names of all
                        those that were later killed, and some others. We all had implicit confidence in Williams and
                        knew that he was giving us the truth.
                    GUIDE IS WEAK-KNEED
                    We then ground all of our swords on the grindstone. When we had finished, old man Tousley in high
                        glee volunteered to haul all of our crowd back in his lumber wagon. We started off with the
                        cheers of the crowd, with their hats in the air, they all knowing the purport of the mission. On
                        the way old man Tousley got weak in the knees and wanted to quit from sheer fear, but we
                        couldn't let him go, fearing he might turn traitor and foil all of our plans.
                    We went down to near the crossing at Dutch Henry's and turned off to the right in a deep
                        grass canyon next to the timber on the creek, far away from all travel. We stayed there all that
                        night and all of the next day until late in the evening. The reason for taking the night for our
                        work was because it was impossible to take the men in the daytime. And the broadswords were used
                        because it could be done in a noiseless manner, while shooting would have aroused the whole
                        neighborhood.
                    DOYLES ARE SLAIN
                    We went to Doyle's first and encountered a number of savage dogs. Old man Tousley went
                        after the dogs with a broadsword and he and my brother Fred soon had them all laid out. Tousley
                        then went in without being asked and worked with all his might, but not as a prisoner as he
                        afterwards claimed. The three Doyes were taken out of the house to a point a half mile or so
                        away and were slain with broadswords. Owen Brown cut down one of them and another of the Browns
                        cut down the old man and the other. Old Man Doyle's wife gave the Doyles a terrible
                        scoring as they were being taken from the house. She said, "I told you you would get
                        into trouble for all your devilment; and now you see it has come."
                    Henry Sherman was killed by Henry Thompson, and also Wilkinson, at about the same time the Doyles
                        were. Our party divided, Thompson and Winer in one party and Owen Brown, Fred Brown, Salmon
                            Brown,7 Oliver Brown and old man Tousley in the other, father running
                            
                     
                        7 The writer of this account.
                  
                         back and forth between the two parties. Father never raised
                        a hand in slaying the men. He shot a bullet into the head of old man Doyle about a half hour
                        after he was dead, but what for I do not know. Perhaps it was to call Thompson and Winer so that
                        they could locate us and we could all get together and return to our camp. We all soon got to
                        camp and remained there all of the following day and until quite late at night. We left and
                        Tousley was more than willing to go with us.
                    SLAYING IS REGRETTED
                    The night of the slaying I went alone to the house of Mr. Harris, who worked for Dutch Henry, and
                        had the care of a fine gray stallion. I made Harris saddle the animal and hold the stirrup for
                        me to mount. I said, "Thank you and goodbye." I never saw him again. He made a
                        report of this just as here given before an investigating committee.
                    We moved back toward our place near Middle Creek and camped. My brother Owen felt terribly
                        conscience-smitten because he had killed one of the Doyles, and he cried and took on at an
                        agonizing rate. My brother John made his way back to Osawatomie, where his family had gone, in a
                        very dejected state of mind, bordering on a breakdown. He hid himself in the timber near
                        Adair's old place, as the 
                            Missouri
                         militia was taking prisoners and scouring the country in every direction.
                    Father sent 
                            Owen
                         with a fine race-horse that we had got by trading the gray stallion to some parties
                        up north that had taken the race-horse from some 
                            Missouri
                         invaders and then brought the animal down to trade with us and get sommething of
                        their own to take back. 
                            Owen
                         was to see John and get him to come to our camp. Father told 
                            Owen
                         that if John would not come to leave the race-horse with him. 
                            Owen
                         went along the ridge towards Osawatomie until he came to the bluff about four miles
                        west of that place to the right of the trail.
                    OWEN BROWN CHASED
                    Under the bluffs there was a settler's house and about 40 men with as many horses all
                        saddled. The men were seemingly taking a little rest. 
                            Owen
                         rode down the bluff and was seen by the crowd. They began to yell: "There
                        goes one of them damned Browns." They at once mounted their horses and took after 
                            Owen
                        , yelling like demons. 
                            Owen
                         put spurs to his horse and made for Osawatomie, which place he easily made,
                        distancing his would-be captors. He saw John in the woods, but he could do nothing with him as
                        his head was still wild. He would not take the horse, and Owen came back, most of the way
                        through the timber. When he got back he was so used up that he could not keep from going to
                        sleep when he was talking of his trip.
                    The next day 
                            Howard
                         Carpenter, who lived near Palmyra,8 came to our camp on a
                        branch of Middle Creek and wanted our company, which was somewhat increased in numbers, to go up
                        to Palmyra, as Henry Clay Pate was camped at Black Jack Springs, and his men were robbing houses
                        in all directions and taking free state prisoners. 
                     
                        8 Palmyra was about half way between Osawatomie and 
                                    Lawrence
                                .
                  
                         We had increased our stock of horses since leaving
                        Pottawatomie Crossing by taking them from pro-slavery men, and were now pretty well mounted. We
                        started that night for Palmyra, led by Carpenter. When we got to the line south of the creek at 
                            Ottawa
                         Jones' place we found a company of soldiers, a part of Colonel
                        Wood's command, rank pro-slavery men, camped at the end of the lane to intercept us in
                        case we should try to get through.
                    SOLDIERS LIE IN WAIT
                    We came up to the lane in single file and were halted by their guards. It was a very dark night.
                        The men were lying along both sides of the road with their feet to the road. There were still
                        coals in the middle of the road where they had fires earlier in the night. My brother Frederick
                        was in the lead and he commenced to talk to the guard, his horse champing the bit and prancing
                        around. Suddenly and before the guard had time to think, Fred rushed his horse through the lane
                        over the coals and we all followed like a flash of lightning. I was behind, riding a mule and
                        carrying the blankets for the crowd, which were fastened to the mule with a circingle. I looked
                        back after we had got through and the road was full of men, who had been startled out of their
                        sleep, but their commander was not in sight.
                    We got to the 
                            Ottawa
                         Jones' place where we found my brother Jason. He asked father if we killed
                        those men. Father told him they had been killed and that he, John Brown, Sr., was responsible
                        for it. Jason replied, "Then you have committed a very wicked crime. Father said,
                        "God is my judge." Jason started for Osawatomie to give himself up and was
                        arrested with his brother John and they were horribly treated and taken to Lecompton to be tried
                        by the border laws.
                    JUDGE CATO'S COURT KNOCKED OUT
                    We left the Pottawatomie region with the Cato Court knocked to the pit and the pro-slavery people
                        flying over to 
                            Missouri
                         with their slaves and families as fast as their underpinning would take them. We
                        went from Jones' place up to near Palmyra and camped. James Redpath9 was a reporter for some newspaper and he came to our camp to get something in the way of
                        news. He wanted to know what father wanted him to say to the Eastern newspapers. Father told him
                        to say that it was a "summary execution," which was all he had to say.
                    The next morning we went to Palmyra. Father and Captain Shore had 15 men each for an attack on
                        Black Jack Spring, where Pate's men were camped. We started late on Sunday afternoon
                        from Palmyra for the fight. Night overtook us near the Springs and we had to camp until daybreak
                        the next morning. Their guard on the ridge fired his gun and then ran to their camp to give the
                        alarm. We all jumped up and made for their camp on the double quick. Captain Shore's
                        men, 15 in all, went down within 200 yards of their camp, 
                     
                        9 James Red path was one of the famous anti-slavery newspaper
                                correspondents who served in 
                                    Kansas
                                 Territory during the period of conflict. The Jones so often mentioned was
                                Samuel J. Jones, sheriff of 
                                    Douglas County
                                .
                  
                         lay down on the ground and began to shoot at the men, who
                        were scattered all around, getting their breakfasts. They soon began to return the fire. Father
                        took his 15 men right down near their camp, at the right, behind a little bank about two feet
                        high. This was done under their fire, which was very wild, for they were in a great panic. We
                        began a cross-fire and this drew the fire away from Shore's men to us, which gave Shore
                        and his force time to retreat up the ravine, which they did—and they never came back.
                        They went home, saying they were hungry, as they had not had anything to eat since the day
                        before at breakfast. We kept up our fire, off and on, until nearly noon. Nearly one-half of
                        Pate's men had been wounded or had deserted. We fired at every one that ran over the
                        ridge for 
                            Westport
                        .10 They had about 25 horses and mules picketed to the right of
                        our fire at them. They did not have time to get into the ravines.
                    TWO ARE WOUNDED
                    It was looking pretty dark for us, as two of our men were wounded right at my elbow and they had
                        to be escorted away by three others, which reduced our squad to 10. Father sent one of our men
                        up to the ravine to a point out of our sight to try to get some of our men to come back but he
                        never returned. Father told the rest of us to shoot all of the horses and mules in sight, which
                        we did in short order. In a few minutes they were covered with buzzards, with which the air was
                        by this time thick. Then out came a man from their camp with a flag of truce. When questioned he
                        said he was a prisoner in their hands. Father told him to go back and tell their captain to come
                        out with him. Pate came out and father asked him what he was doing there. He went on to tell him
                        that he was a captain of the state militia, sent there to enforce the Lecompton laws.
                    Father said, "Then I want an unconditional surrender of you and your men, and I will
                        have it; go back to your men." Then he sent us boys on the double quick around a point
                        that brought us up right to Pate's men, who stood behind the ridge, with only their
                        heads and shoulders exposed, with their rifles at their shoulders aimed at us. We pointed our
                        guns at their heads, only about 10 feet away.
                    ALL ARE TAKEN PRISONERS
                    Father then said to Lieutenant Brocket, "Tell your men to lay down their arms."
                        Brocket replied, "If our captain says so, we'll do it; but I don't
                        think he is such a darned coward as to do so." Father then turned to Pate, who stood by
                        his side, and ordered him to tell his men to lay down their arms. Pate said, "Boys, lay
                        down your arms until we talk this over." Down went their arms and the nine of us took a
                        company of 28 men. Pate did not know at the time that our men who had gone up the ravine had all
                        deserted, which they had.
                    Just as they had surrendered down came Captain Abbott, of the Waukarusa, with 100 men, all
                        mounted and their horses in a foam, to help us eat up their food supplies, their wagons being
                        well stocked. Captain Abbott heard the firing while over on the river early in the 
                     
                        10
                                
                                    Westport
                                 was just over the 
                                    Missouri
                                 line and was several miles northeast of the place of the fight.
                  
                         morning and gathered his men and got over there about noon.
                        When the Pate men laid down their arms to the nine men, five of their captors were Browns, as
                        follows: John Brown, Owen Brown, Fred Brown, Salmon Brown and Oliver Brown. I mention these
                        names to show that none of the Browns who went into the fight showed the white feather, as they
                        were warned not to by their grandfather11 before they left 
                            Ohio
                        .
                    EXCHANGE OF PRISONERS ORDERED
                    When Colonel Sumner was ordered by Secretary Marcy12 to make an exchange of
                        prisoners and to give up the free state men imprisoned at Lecompton, we were much pleased.
                        Colonel Sumner came into our camp with 180 dragoons and 
                            Marshall
                         Donaldson with a warrant to arrest John Brown. Colonel Sumner ordered Donaldson to
                        serve the warrant. Donaldson, a big, fine-looking man, fumbled in his pockets and said he had
                        lost it. Sumner said: "You are a damned liar and a coward, for I saw you have it a few
                        minutes ago." So John Brown was not arrested.
                    Sumner turned loose all the prisoners that we had taken and then Secretary Marcy countermanded
                        the order for releasing the free state prisoners that were held at Lecompton. Our men, who had
                        gathered to the number of fully 800, scattered to their homes to await future results. Our
                        little band went into hiding on short rations. All the ten of us had to eat for about two weeks
                        was a sack of bran and gooseberries sweetened with 
                            New Orleans
                         molasses, Colonel Woods' troops and bands of border ruffians were hunting
                        us by day and night. Colonel Sumner was always on our side. He said to father one day:
                        "If I am ever ordered to shoot you or at you or your men I will order my men to shoot
                        over their heads." The battle of Black Jack was the first battle of the great Civil War
                        that made our country free from slave-holding.
                    BATTLE IS DESCRIBED
                    I will now give you a description of the battle of Osawatomie, which was given to me by my
                        brother Jason, who participated in the fighting from the start to the finish. I would have been
                        there, but I was accidentally shot just after Colonel Sumner took our prisoners from us:
                    "There was a rush made by Colonel Buford with 400 men from 
                            Kansas
                         City to burn Osawatomie about the last day of August, 1856, and another rush made
                        by John Brown and 15 men, who were then about 30 miles away, to get there in time to raise more
                        men to defend Osawatomie.
                    "Both forces got there about the same time the night before the battle. Brown and his
                        little band camped just south of Adair's old homestead on the Pottawatomie. They
                        recruited 15 men that night on the creek, making a force of 30 men.
                    
                  
                     11 Owen Brown, the writer's grandfather, and father of John
                            Brown of Osawatomie.
                  
                     12 William L. Marcy served as Secretary of State during the Pierce
                            Administration. Colonel E. V. Sumner was one of the military men who served the Federal
                            government in 
                                Kansas
                             Territory.
               
                    
                    "Buford's men camped right near the Osage River, just
                        north of the town of Osawatomie. At daybreak the next morning Brown's party heard men
                        shooting. They started over the little ridge north for the timber on the Osage, single file.
                        They were seen by Martin White's squad, who were in the lead of Buford's men. 
                            Martin
                            White
                        , although a preacher, shot down 10 armed men who were doing their chores. Buford
                        had burned Osawatomie and [now] came up with their cannon torch all lighted and colors flying.
                        They halted a little more than 100 feet from the brush and trees where they saw Brown's
                        men go into the brush. Father's men opened fire on them, 30 guns all at once on their
                        solid ranks.
                    "Their men fell by the score and they broke all into groups. Colonel Buford finally got
                        his men into line again by beating them over the backs with his sword. They finally got their
                        cannon to work; the first few shells hit the top of the big oak trees. My father, to encourage
                        the boys, told them that the cannon was the most harmless thing they [the enemy] could use.
                        Finally the advance of the Buford men got down to the edge of the brush, when father ordered his
                        men to retreat across the Osage. The Buford forces followed and at the bank shot one of our men,
                        George Partridge, as he was climbing the opposite bank.
                    "Our loss was very small, but they had 70 killed and wounded. With four wagonloads of
                        killed and wounded out of 400 men they must have seen the hand of 
                            Providence
                        . That is the way John Brown always looked at that battle."13
               
                    POTTAWATOMIE SLAUGHTER EXPLAINED
                    There has been a great deal said about the Pottawatomie slaughter by people who did not know the
                        true inwardness of the whole affair. The first warrants issued by Cato's Lecompton
                        court were for all of the Browns and 
                            Henry
                         Thompson, John Brown's son-in-law, for talking in public places against
                        the Lecompton code of "border ruffian" laws which made it a crime punishable
                        with imprisonment for speaking against slavery and one of the penalties was death. Cato was
                        warned against trying anyone under that code of law, but he paid no attention to the warning and
                        assumed the whole responsibility for his actions. The warrants were placed in the hands of his
                        underlings to be served, and these underlings were the lowest down slave catchers from 
                            Missouri
                         that could be found on the 
                            Kansas
                         side of the 
                            Missouri
                        .
                    Cato was responsible for the killing of those five men—Cato and nobody else. To submit
                        at that time would have been treason against our form of government. Cato at once lit out, left
                        the country, and all of those who had slaves on the 
                            Kansas
                         side went quickly, across the river to 
                            Missouri
                        . And those warrants were never afterwards heard from, although it is now over 60
                        years since they were placed in the hands of those border officers.
                    
                  
                     13 It was this battle that gave the leader of the free-state men the
                            name, "John Brown of Osawatomie."
               
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        . Compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin Carter. 
                        United States
                     Government Printing Office, 
                        Washington
                    , 1934. Vol. I (preliminary printing), pp. xvi, 37; Vol. II, pp. xii, 695; Vol. III, pp.
                    vi, 588.
            The three volumes of Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        
               , edited by Dr. Clarence E. Carter and issued by the Department of State in
                    1934, inaugurate the publication of official papers in the Federal archives relating to twenty-eight
                    territories which have been erected into states. The series will comprise some twenty-five volumes.
            The need for such a publication is obvious, and has long been urged by the American Historical
                    Association and by the historical agencies of the thirty states concerned. In 1925 an act drafted
                    and introduced by Senator Samuel M. Ralston of Indiana authorized the Secretary of State to cause
                    the collection, copying, and editing for publication of papers relating to the territories found in
                    the national archives. Under an amendatory act of 1929, further provision was made for the
                    publication of the papers, and Dr. Carter was appointed to edit the collection.
            Volume I, a general volume, is issued in preliminary form, with an introduction by Dr. Carter
                    covering the origin, scope, and method of the proposed series. It contains a chronological list of
                    the territories and a second list, alphabetically arranged, with a roster of the governors,
                    secretaries, and federal judges of each territory, with the place from which they were appointed and
                    the dates of their commissions. In its final form this volume will include general papers which
                    relate to two or more territories. It is proposed to include also a general bibliography.
            Volumes II and III present some seven hundred official papers relating to the Territory Northwest of
                    the River Ohio, 1787–1803, and the Journal of Executive Proceedings,
                    1788–1803, in which are incorporated many letters and orders of the governor and
                    secretary. The arrangement is chronological in the main; the Journal, just mentioned, is printed as
                    one document at the end of Volume III. Great care has been taken to follow the original spelling,
                    punctuation, and capitalization.  A small proportion of the
                    papers have been printed before, but are included because they are essential to the understanding of
                    a group of following papers, or because the earlier printing is now generally inaccessible or shows
                    considerable variation from the sources. In this group belong the cessions of western lands from the
                    states to the government of the Confederation, the Ordinance of 1787, several Indian treaties, and a
                    number of St. Clair papers.
            In selecting papers for the series, emphasis has been placed upon the administrative side of
                    territorial affairs, including questions of public-land policy and certain phases of Indian affairs,
                    which during the period were inextricably entangled with the ordinary problems of civil government.
                    While the direction of territorial affairs lay with the Department of State until 1873 and many of
                    the papers printed came from that department, the files of the General Land Office of the Department
                    of the Interior and of the War Department have furnished many additional papers. Others have been
                    selected from the records of the Post Office Department, the House and Senate files, and manuscripts
                    now in the Library of Congress.
            With the establishment of the Territory Northwest of the River Ohio, the Federal
                    government was obliged to formulate a general territorial policy, to set up a workable system for
                    surveying and disposing of public lands, to devise some means of protecting the lands from
                    intruders, to adopt an Indian policy that would satisfy the inhabitants of the western country, and
                    to begin a postal service. The correspondence between the governor and secretary of the territory
                    and the president and heads of government departments at 
                        Washington
                     shows how thse problems presented themselves, how an attempt was made to meet them, and
                    how they gradually worked themselves out or proved to be beyond solution.
            Local affairs come into view in the Journal of Executive Proceedings, which deals with appointments,
                    communications between the governor and secretary, the difficulties of legislation, the organization
                    of counties, the development and discipline of a dependable militia. While the guarded formality of
                    official correspondence colors most of the papers printed, there are occasional papers that are very
                    "human" indeed. See, for example, Gibault's memorial to Governor St.  Clair (Vol. II, 243–44), and Sargent to St. Clair
                    (Vol. III, 399ff.). The Journal makes clear the curious combination of very large and very small
                    affairs which made up territorial government.
            Careful attention to cross references greatly facilitates the use of these volumes, and the notes to
                    a vast number of related published and unpublished papers are invaluable. Students of local history
                    will feel a particular gratitude for the care that has been taken in the identification of the many
                    persons who appear as signers to petitions. No user of the volumes will fail to comment on the
                    satisfactory inclusiveness of the Index.
            NELLIE ARMSTRONG.
         
         
            
               The Laws of Indiana Territory, 1809–1816. Edited by Louis B. Ewbank
                    and Dorothy L. Riker, with a foreword by Governor Paul V. McNutt. Indiana Historical
                        Collections, XX, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1934. Pp. xiv, 923.
            The publication of this volume marks the completion of the task of collecting and reprinting the
                    legislation enacted by the territorial governments whose jurisdiction included the area which now
                    constitutes the state of Indiana. The work of rendering these early laws readily available to the
                    public was begun and carried fodward in two earlier volumes, published in the 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Historical Collections, to which the present volume is, in a very real sense,
                    a companion. The first of these preceding volumes, Laws of the Northwest Territory,
                        1788–1800, appeared in 1925 under the editorship of Theodore C. Pease; the next,
                        Laws of Indiana Territory, 1801–1809, was edited by Francis S.
                    Philbrick and published in 1930. The second volume was reprinted in 1931, with supplementary Indiana
                    material, by the Indiana Historical Bureau.
            The present volume covers the years from 1809, when 
                        Illinois
                     Territory was carved out of Indiana Territory, to the admission of Indiana to statehood
                    in 1816, and comprises the session laws enacted by the territorial general assembly during that
                    period. A panoramic summary of the laws which constitute the body of the volume is set forth in a
                    "Review of Legislation" to which the first eighty-five pages are devoted.  In some instances, this summary includes references to
                    legislation enacted prior to 1809 or subsequent to 1816.
            The subjects dealt with in these early laws are indicative of the problems which confronted the
                    inhabitants of the territory. Prominent in the list are laws regulating imprisonment for debt and
                    specifying what property of a debtor should be exempt from execution. The status of negroes and
                    mulattoes in the territory was a problem which called for legislative action. Acts which created new
                    counties, fixed the location of county seats, regulated the method of conducting county business,
                    and prescribed the organization of the local courts were numerous. As might be expected, laws
                    pertaining to the militia accounted for a considerable part of the legislative output of the period,
                    the militia act of 1814 covering more than sixty pages—a lengthy act for those days. This
                    act appeared in the session laws with its own index, and five hundred copies were ordered separately
                    printed.
            Then, as now, taxation constituted an important subject of legislative action. For the most part, the
                    taxes of the period were specific in their nature rather than ad valorem; land,
                    although taxed at a fixed sum per hundred acres, was commonly divided into three classes so that the
                    better land would pay a higher rate. The use of the taxing power as a means of striking at practices
                    which were considered socially undesirable is evidenced in the provisions of a tax law of 1813 to
                    the effect that, while the annual tax on ferries should not exceed ten dollars, the tax on every
                    billiard table was to be fifty dollars. Numerous acts for the relief of sheriffs who were unable, as
                    tax collectors, to collect the taxes charged against them, indicate that tax delinquency was
                    widespread. While the courts were authorized to grant divorces, legislative divorces were not
                    uncommon. Other statutes typical of the period are those regulating the number of days which a
                    person should be required to work on roads, penalizing the obstruction of navigable streams,
                    providing bounties for the killing of wolves, and regulating the methods of electing public
                    officials.
            The session laws included in the volume are reprinted from original editions, many of which are now
                    rare and relatively inaccessible. The value of the work is enhanced by the printing, as Appendix I,
                    of the private acts of the assemblies  of 1810 and 1814, which
                    were originally printed with the general acts of those sessions by title only and are here
                    reproduced from the enrolled acts in the office of the Secretary of State. Certain memorials and
                    joint resolutions of general significance make up the contents of Appendix II. In the third appendix
                    the roster of territorial and county officials published in the Philbrick volume is brought down to
                    1816. The entire volume is excellently indexed.
            The text of the legislation presented in the volume has heretofore existed only in a fugitive form
                    which will become less and less generally accessible with the lapse of time. The work of the editors
                    and of the Historical Bureau, in making this material readily available to research students, the
                    bar, and the general public, deserves the highest commendation.
            CLYDE F. SNYDER.
         
         
            
               A Kentuckian at the Court of the Tsars. By James Rood Robertson. Berea College
                    Press, Berea, 1935. Pp. 286, $2.50, illustrated.
            This volume deals with the ministry of Cassius M. Clay to Russia 1861–62 and
                    1863–69. Mr. Clay was one of Kentucky's most picturesque characters. Dr.
                    Robertson's book presents a fine biographical study of what was perhaps the most dramatic
                    and colorful decade in Mr. Clay's life of ninety-three years. Though Mr. Clay would
                    naturally have preferred a diplomatic position in 
                        England
                     or 
                        France
                    , a conference with President Lincoln led him to accept an appointment to Russia. This
                    was most fortunate as he was well fitted for the Russian post and he soon came to refer to himself
                    as "a sentinel on the frontier" (p. 35). He had much in common with the upper
                    classes of Russia and undertook to outdo the Russian aristocracy in their own field. He became a
                    welcome guest at social functions and invitations to his dinners were not only accepted but sought
                    after.
            Mr. Clay's letters were sometimes curious diplomatic documents, ranging over the whole field
                    of international affairs rather than being confined to specific issues. He was of course vitally
                    interested in the political and military conditions in the 
                        United States
                     and often made suggestions and gave advice concerning these to Secretary Seward and
                    President Lincoln. His correspondence also gives interesting characterizations of
                    personalities—rulers, foreign ministers,  other
                    diplomats, etc., with whom he came in contact both in the 
                        United States
                     and in Europe.
            Mr. Clay was an enthusiastic admirer of Tsar Alexander II and of Prince Alexander Gortchacow, the
                    Russian Chancellor. The genuinely cordial feeling of Prince Gortchacow for Mr. Clay led to many
                    special attentions and unusual opportunities. An example of this is cited by Dr. Robertson in the
                    invitation to Mr. Clay to attend the reception given by the Mayor and citizens of Moscow in 1866, on
                    the occasion of the anniversary of Alexander's coronation and the Emancipation Proclamation
                    for the serfs—a courtesy, the first of its kind granted to Russia by a foreign legation.
            Dr. Robertson presents the interesting comparison of the position of the 
                        United States
                     during the Civil War, and Russia during the Polish Insurrection. When 
                        England
                     and 
                        France
                     were threatening intervention in the 
                        United States
                     Civil War, our minister sought and obtained moral support from Russia who assured us
                    that we "could count upon most cordial sympathy". In 1863, during the Polish
                    Insurrection, Mr. Clay found the tables turned and he was to seek moral support of his country for
                    Russia when Great Britain, 
                        France
                    , and 
                        Austria
                     were proposing that the 
                        United States
                     join them in intervention in Russia's internal affairs. Prince Gortchacow was
                    gratified at the refusal of the 
                        United States
                     to join these powers, and conveyed the Tsar's appreciation of the
                    "firmness with which the government of the 
                        United States
                     maintains the principle of non-intervention" … and the
                    "loyalty with which they refuse to impose upon other states, a rule, the violation of which
                    in respect to themselves, they would not allow" (p. 148).
            The author also discusses Mr. Clay's concern over French intervention in 
                        Mexico
                    , his opposition to the Congressional Plan of Reconstruction, his lack of sympathy with
                    the notorious Perkins claims against the Russian government, his activity in promoting the plan to
                    connect Russia and the 
                        United States
                     by telegraph through Alaska and Siberia, and the Purchase of Alaska.
            The book is written in a charming narrative style and will appeal not only to Kentuckians but to all
                    who are interested in our diplomatic history. A noteworthy feature of the work is nine full page
                    illustrations. The frontispiece is a photograph of Dr. Robertson, who died in 1932. The other  eight illustrations pertain to the life of Mr. Clay and his
                    Russian mission. The little volume has faults which are evident to the professional historian, such
                    as incomplete footnotes. There are also evidences of the inexperience of the printer. The lack of
                    more complete documentation is doubtless due to the untimely death of the author. Dr. Robertson had
                    practically completed the manuscript before his demise. His widow, Catherine Lansing Robertson,
                    edited the manuscript and arranged for its publication. In spite of minor shortcomings, however,
                    this modest book is a wholesome and welcome aid to the understanding of our relations with a
                    friendly European power during a critical period in our history.
            LEE F. CRIPPEN.
         
         
            
               Catharine Merrill: Life and Letters. Collected and arranged by Katharine Merrill
                    Graydon. The 
                        Mitchell
                     Company, 
                        Greenfield
                    , 1934. Pp. 483. (The Kautz Stationary Co., 
                        Indianapolis
                    , $2.00).
            Catharine Merrill was born in Corydon in 1824, her father, Samuel Merrill, being State Treasurer at
                    the time. When he brought the funds of Indiana to the infant 
                        Indianapolis
                    , nine months after the birth of Catharine, his wife held the babe in her arms as the
                    wagon jolted over the hills and through the forests to the new capital. Here the child grew to
                    womanhood, and here she spent many of her remaining years. She became a great reader, traveled much
                    in Europe, and spent a number of years as a teacher in Butler College.
            This volume, though it gives an account of Miss Merrill's life and work, is largely made up
                    of letters. It was prepared by Mrs. Katharine Merrill Graydon, daughter of Miss Merrill's
                    brother. The author and editor has performed a fine service, not only for members of the Merrill
                    family and friends of the family, but for outsiders as well. One has only to read the correspondence
                    presented to know that Catharine Merrill was an unusual woman—a charming and helpful
                    friend to those privileged to know her, and an inspiration to the students in her classes. The book
                    will amply reward anyone who chooses to read it.
            Born in 1824, Miss Merrill lived and served to 1900—through an interesting period of great
                    changes. There are  chapters dealing with childhood, girlhood
                    and young womanhood, accompanied by letters and diary entries to show the spirit of the writer and
                    to reveal the unfolding of her life. Other chapters are based on her travels and sojourns in
                    European countries. One chapter is devoted to the Civil War years, and another to her career as a
                    college teacher.
            A passage from a letter of 1859 written from Cork, 
                        Ireland
                    , for the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal, exemplifies the author's ability to describe: 
                        Certainly neither painter nor poet could ask anything beautiful of nature that she does not
                            give here. 
                                White
                             roads wind along hillsides, through rich open meadows, or between swells bright
                            with roses or the pink-blossomed blackberry; fields bordered by dark hedges clothe the
                            distant hills with every shade of green and yellow; elegant mansions speak of modern taste
                            and luxury, ruined castles of ancient splendor, thatched cottages of rural happiness, and
                            the shining river Lee flows softly through country, city and village. About the little
                            villages which here and there nestle among the ivy and roses, with climbing fucias shaking
                            their scarlet drops over door and window, there is a finish which is peculiar and very much
                            opposed to our idea of an Irish village.
                    
            
            In regard to the religious troubles of 
                        Ireland
                    , we have the situation summed up succinctly: "Presbyterians do not trust
                    Episcopalians, Episcopalians look with contempt on Presbyterians, both regard the Methodists as
                    upstarts, and all three abhor the Catholics, who in turn bitterly detest and denounce every heresy
                    under the sun".
            The true teacher is manifested in a statement to a close friend relating to a course of lectures on
                    the Renaissance and Reformation which Miss Merrill had given to a class when almost seventy years of
                    age: "Those lectures were a real enjoyment to me. To walk through the dark land of the
                    past, pick out something here and there that I could apprehend and show it to eager young
                    eyes—yes, that was a real pleasure."
            Many passages could be quoted to show that this student, traveler, and teacher was also a poet, who
                    looked at human life and nature with a poet's understanding. This review will close with a
                    wonderful paragraph called out by the death of an intimate friend, who passed away in 1873. For
                    other fine things from the pen of Catherine Merrill that may be found in the volume, readers of this
                    review must go to the book itself. Of Elizabeth Bates whose light had gone out,
            
            Miss Merrill wrote: 
                        Beautiful and witty, intelligent, literary in her tastes, fond of good society, loving,
                            loved, admired and esteemed, her youth was radiant. Then came sorrow, weakness, and perhaps
                            disgust for all the world. Then self-renunciation, labor of body, loneliness, grief,
                            gentleness and the love and sweetness of the first friends. So she died, living her last
                            days in "Angelic patience," as a friend writes. Dear Bettie! It was a
                            high-beating heart that was hushed.
                    
            
            W.O.L.
         
         
            
               The Centennial History of 
                            Franklin
                         College. By John P. Cady. Published by Franklin College, 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, 1934. Pp. 211, illustrated.
            Any college that has survived the vicissitudes of one hundred years furnishes a good subject for the
                    historian. In his "Introduction" Dr. Cady speaks of the history of 
                        Franklin
                     College as "the story of the attempt of the Baptists in Indiana to function in
                    an educational way". Many of the small church colleges founded in the Middle West when the
                    region was yet in the pioneer stage have a fascinating history. Any writer who catches the spirit of
                    one of these institutions, who draws true portraits of the men who have given effect to its work,
                    and who somewhat correctly evaluates the influence emanating from it through years of trouble and
                    struggle as well as through periods of success, does a good work. To a large extent Dr. Cady has
                    measured up to these requirements.
            There are six chapters in the modest volume with the following headings: "The First
                    Decade"; "The Administration of George C. Chandler"; "President
                    Bailey's Time"; "The Rebirth of the College"; "Campus
                    Activities in Stott's Time", and "The College in Recent Years".
                    The account starts at the inception of the School, but does not cover the years since 1929. A great
                    deal of space is given to the several presidents who have guided the destinies of the institution.
                    The work of each is quite closely analyzed and the author has not hesitated to present evidence
                    whether favorable or unfavorable. He has also dealt very frankly with the short sightedness
                    manifested at times by the Baptist Church in its relationships with the College. In this respect,
                    the treatment of the period of the presidency of the courageous and far-seeing Dr. Elmer B. Bryan is
                    well done. In fact, it seems  clear that the School reached its
                    climax under Bryan's leadership, though he was needlessly compelled by leaders in the
                    Church to work under handicaps.
            It is characteristic of most college histories that they deal too exclusively with problems of
                    administration and with the activities of presidents. In short, there is a too-well established
                    routine into which writers of such histories are prone to fall. Not enough of attention is given to
                    faculty members, who do so much to give character and prestige to an institution, nor to the
                    worth-while students who are sent out in the world and who justify its existence. Dr. Cady has
                    succeeded in avoiding these faults to some extent. Though he identifies 
                        Franklin
                     College too closely with the several educators who have served as presidents, he does
                    deal with campus activities at some length.
            On the whole, the volume under review furnishes a valuable account of a strong church college which
                    has won a place in the sun. One has no hesitancy in saying that the school should be more heavily
                    endowed; that the Baptist Church should rise to the occasion, make a mighty effort to obtain
                    adequate funds, and never try to control the views of an able president who has vision and a liberal
                    outlook.
            W.O.L.
         
         
            
               Education in Indiana, 1793–1794. By Fassett A. Cotton. The Progress
                    Publishing Company, Bluffton, Indiana, 1934. Pp. xvi, 491.
            The author of this history of education in Indiana was a teacher in the public schools, County
                    Superintendent in 
                        Henry County
                    , and then Superintendent of Public Instruction in Indiana. In 1909 he went to 
                        Wisconsin
                     to serve as President of the State Teachers College at LaCrosse. He left this position
                    to go to the far Southwest in 1924 to become the head of the Northern 
                        Arizona
                     Teachers College at Flagstaff, where he remained for two years. His interest in the
                    development of education in Indiana was greatly stimulated by his work during the three terms which
                    he served as Superintendent of Public Instruction.
            In the first eighty pages, Mr. Cotton deals with the earlier periods when educational progress in
                    Indiana was very slow. In the next portion of the book, the founding of  Indiana University, Purdue University, and the two State Teachers
                    Colleges is sketched, after which a brief notice is given to each of a long list of other colleges.
                    The remainder of the volume is devoted to some of Indiana's leading educators, and to a
                    series of problems connected with elementary, secondary and college education, including teacher
                    training, school revenues, library development, and the strong points of the general system that has
                    been built up in the state.
            The book will serve as a useful manual and parts of it will be read with enjoyment by teachers and
                    others who are interested in the educational progress of the state. The best part of the account is
                    that which relates to the author's work as State Superintendent of Public Instruction.
            W.O.L.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Literary Club, a small booklet compiled by Stephen C. Noland, Secretary of the
                    organization, was brought out in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in December, 1934. The contents include a "Summarized Record" of the
                    members of the Club and papers read before the Club during the period from 1877 to 1934. The
                    Constitution as drawn up and adopted by the guild in 1877 is found (pp. 93–96). The
                    objects of the Club are given as "social, literary and aesthetic culture." Article
                    X, the last of the document, provides an easy method of amendment, but if any alterations have been
                    made during the life of the organization, a period of more than fifty years, they are not mentioned.
                    The compiler of the records has done more than summarize the minutes and prepare a useful index. He
                    has published a paper written by himself and read before the Indiana Historical Society at the
                    annual dinner of that Society in the Claypool Hotel on December 7, 1934. This paper is an intimate
                    history of the Club, which has only one fault—it is entirely too brief.
            The State Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                     has recently brought out a reprint of a very valuable and interesting pamphlet
                    published in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1836 under the title, Notes on the 
                            Wisconsin
                         Territory; Particularly with Reference to the 
                            Iowa
                         District or Black Hawk Purchase. The Notes are based on
                    information gathered by Lieutenant Albert M. Lea of the 
                        United States
                     Dragoons when serving the Federal Government in the 
                        Iowa
                     District during 1835. This is "The Book 
                    that Gave to 
                        Iowa
                     Its Name," and it is for this reason that it has been reproduced under the
                    editorship of Dr. Benj. F. Shambaugh, Superintendent and Editor of the 
                        Iowa
                     Society. The original was bound in paper covers, while the reprint is equipped with a
                    handsome cloth binding. Otherwise the new edition "follows the original, page for page,
                    line for line, and in type as nearly as possible like the original in size and style."
            A Guide to the Personal Papers in the manuscript collections of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, was published recently by that Society. The publication is bound in
                    paper and contains one hundred forty-six pages including an index. The compilers of the Guide are Grace Lee Nute and Gertrude W. Ackerman, both of whom are connected with the
                    manuscripts division of the Society. There is an "Introduction" of six pages by
                    Dr. Theodore C. Blegen, Superintendent of the Society. Of the volume, he says that it is "a
                    tool designed to aid students of 
                        Minnesota
                     and American history," and also a "systematic report to the world on
                    the scope and value of one of the most notable manuscript collections of the country." The
                        Guide may be obtained from the Society at $1.25 per copy.
            In the June issue of the 
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review,
                    there are two articles that should appeal strongly to all persons interested in the history of
                    Indiana and the Old Northwest. The first is a study under the heading "Wet Lands and the
                    Hoosier Stereotype," by Richard Lyle Power, assistant professor of history at the St.
                    Lawrence University, Canton, 
                        New York
                    . The second paper, which is by John D. Barnhart, professor of history in the State
                    Teachers College at West Liberty, West 
                        Virginia
                    , deals with the "Sources of Southern Migration into the Old
                    Northwest."
            In the neighboring state of 
                        Ohio
                    , a magazine was launched in February last under the name, 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Tombstones, the editor being David K. Webb and the place of publication, 
                        Chillicothe
                    . This new quarterly is described by the promoters as "A magazine which is
                    intended to cover a field where there exists at present, absolutely no material or records of any
                    kind." The plan is to gather historical information 
                    from the cemeteries of not only 
                        Ohio
                     but of adjacent states as well. The editor believes that the new periodical will prove
                    valuable to researchers in the field of genealogy, to museums, to libraries, and to compilers of
                    facts relating to early pioneers. It is entirely possible that 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Tombstones may do much to give more life to the subject of history.
         
         
         
            Comment
            In December, 1932, we wrote here: 
                        It would seem that one of the finest attributes of man is his power to project something
                            superior to what he has attained, recognize it as such, and work towards it. If ever the
                            countries of the world had need of leaders ready to exercise this capacity, now would seem
                            to be the time.
                     In our own country the new deal was launched a few months after the above statement
                    appeared, but the various experiments have long been strenuously opposed by powerful interests. So
                    many of the problems have demanded quick solution that those more fundamental, which require;
                    far-reaching changes and much time, have not received sufficient attention. Certainly they have been
                    widely confused with temporary expedients necessary to relieve multitudes in dire need. The great
                    object, however, is to pave the way for a future regime in which a far greater degree of economic
                    justice shall prevail. If the foundations for such a regime can not be laid under the existing
                    Constitution, then what blessings can come from the efforts of those who are out to save it?
            Every man who declares that the great purpose of the present is to preserve the Constitution, ought
                    to be able and willing, even anxious, to explain what he means. Whether he is a pillar of the
                    existing economic structure, a lawyer, a journalist, an army man, or just John Doe, he surely has
                    some idea as to what it is that he wants saved. It would require no very close analysis to show that
                    each one is out to conserve all the features of the existing order that he believes to be conducive
                    to his own well-being and power. He likes a Constitution that does not interfere with his own
                    interests, and he wants it to be interpreted by law-makers and courts so that he will not be
                    hampered by it in the future. Such, however, is not enough. If the Constitution is to be saved, it
                    will have to be interpreted so that the weak may have protection from the strong, so that the fruits
                    of the productive efforts of society shall be equitably distributed, and so that no citizen who
                    respects the rights of others can be denied the opportunity to work and live comfortably.
            From the War of 1812 to 1850, Indiana developed rapidly. Indeed the state was a dynamic commonwealth
                    in the  last decade before the Civil War. She was by 1850,
                    mature enough to send forth many colonists to newer areas farther westward. Her representation in
                    the national House and in the electoral college was, from 1850 to 1860, greater than that of any
                    state west of the Alleghenies except 
                        Ohio
                    . The only states in the 
                        Union
                     besides 
                        Ohio
                     that ranked above her were 
                  New York,
                            Pennsylvania
               , and 
                        Virginia
                    , while she was exactly equal to 
                        Massachusetts
                    . With 228 miles of railroad in 1850, she had 2,125 miles ten years later. From third
                    place in hog production at the beginning of the decade, she had risen to first place by the end. In
                    wheat production, she had climbed from sixth place to second. Wheat growing had shifted westward. In
                    1850, the first six states in the order of wheat production were: 
                  Pennsylvania, Ohio, New York, Virginia, Illinois
               , and Indiana. In 1860, the order was: 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, 
                  Wisconsin, Ohio, Virginia
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , with 
                        New York
                     in seventh place. Whatever has happened since, citizens of Indiana had no good cause to
                    be discontented with the growth of the state to power and position up to the eve of the great
                    sectional conflict.
            Contributors to this issue: Harvey L. Carter, a native of Indiana, is professor of history at Ursinus
                    College, Collegeville, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Robert B. Yule, a member of the Indiana Highway Commission, lives in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Hon. Harry S. New, whose home is in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was formerly 
                        United States
                     Senator from Indiana, and later Postmaster General. Julia LeClerc Knox, who has
                    contributed various articles in the past, is a teacher of Latin in the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     High School. Mrs. Corinne Schenck Dahmen, also an earlier contributor, is now, living
                    at 
                        Vevay
                    . Mrs. Elizabeth M. Denehie is a teacher in Wiley High School of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . George S. Cottman, who was the founder and first editor of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, is spending the evening of his life in his home near 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. Christopher B. Coleman is Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society.
                    Leonard S. Kenworthy will next year serve as assistant to the head master of the Friends Select
                    School at Bala-Cynwyd, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Linneus N. Hines, formerly State Superintendent of Public Instruction and President of
                    Indiana State Teachers College, is now in charge of the Extension Division of that  institution in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Nellie Armstrong is on the staff of the Indiana Historical Bureau in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Clyde F. Snyder is at present acting-instructor in political science at the University
                    of 
                        Illinois
                    . Lee F. Crippen is professor of history at Berea College, Berea, 
                        Kentucky
                    .
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write to the
                        Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               
                  ∗Volume I, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907)
               Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1908).
               Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec., 1909).
               Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec., 1910).
               Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1911).
               
                  ∗Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
               Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               
                  ∗Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               
                  ∗Volume XVII, 4 (Dec. 1921).
               Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
               Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume. Issues from 1905–1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold
                    at one and a half dollars per number.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having
                    any of these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W. A. Alexander, Librarian of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                
            
               Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
               Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University needs the following to fill out
                    the files.
            
               1832–1833. Wanted 3 copies.
               1833–1834. Wanted 3 copies.
               1834–1835. Wanted 3 copies.
               1836–1837. Wanted 2 copies.
               1837–1838. Wanted 2 copies.
               1839–1840. Wanted 2 copies.
               1840–1841. Wanted 2 copies.
               1843–1844. Wanted 2 copies.
               1849–1850. Wanted 2 copies.
               1853–1854. Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                         Lore. Wanted copies of Numbers 3–8, 10–11, 13,
                    15–17, 22, 26–29, 34 and 35 of 1929; Number 53 of 1930.
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted copies of: Vol. I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6;
                    Vol. III, Nos. 1, 5, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 1898–1899.
         
      
   
