
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 42, Issue 1, pages 1-106. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:42+issue:1+year:1946&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The American Backwoodsman In Popular Portraiture
            THOMAS D. CLARK
            
            Writing under the mellifluous title "Musketo Bait, Our Country, Her People, Their
                    Character," Concordia said: "This is a very great country of ours—a
                    very great country— great in its extent, great in the grandeur of her
                    mountains— more than great in her far reaching rivers, her wide spread forest, and vast
                    fields—but great, truly more than great, greater than all others, is the
                        character of those who dwell within her wide and extended limits."
               1 Perhaps this writer who was swept so completely off foot by his superlatives had a keen
                    understanding of what was taking place around him. There may be ample room for long and tedious
                    arguments about the exact meaning of the frontier in American history. Scholarly gentlemen may sit
                    for long hours in smoke-ladened and overheated hotel rooms and argue the question of the influence
                    of the West in American history, with one crowd holding to one thesis and the other refuting it, but
                    one thing they can agree upon, there were backwoodsmen.
            From the great valleys of the Appalachians to the broad lands beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                     there were thousands of backwoodsmen. The rivers swarmed with them as they steered
                    their clumsy craft toward free land and new adventures. The trails reverberated with their
                    boisterous shouts, oaths, and laughter. Much of the great West had become a land of
                    semi-dispossessed people who were throwing themselves upon the country's resources hoping
                    ever for the better. New terms like "pulling up stakes" and
                    "gittin’ on" became vital parts of the backwoodsman's everyday
                    speech. As the author of "Musketo Bait" said, they formed "the
                    bare-breasted 
                  
                     1 Concordia, "Musketo Bait, Our Country—Her
                            People—Their Character," The Spirit of the Times (31
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1831–1861), XIV (August 10, 1844)’ 279.
               
                     wall of our vast frontier."2 These
                    restless souls who moved westward were in the process of creating a new national personality. In
                    adapting themselves to their new environment they threw off many of the superficial habits and
                    customs of another society and adjusted themselves to the necessities of their immediate situations.
                    Life for them had assumed a new reality, and they had neither time nor conveniences with which to
                    cultivate the superficialities of older communities.3
            
            The spirit of the frontier on the whole was one of rough good-natured cordiality and hospitality. A
                    backwoodsman meant what he said when he greeted new arrivals with "Light stranger! light
                    and hang your horse to a tree—walk in— we'll spare you some liquor,
                    and gin you something to gnaw on. We're pretty thick about here now, and some on us is
                    sorter gwine to marry each other, I'm gwine to hang myself to that red-haired gal in the
                    corner thar, soon as the squire comes, so jist dart in an’ make yourself at home,
                    it's free doin's—every man for hisself and the gals for us
                        all."4
            
            Nowhere else was the stranger more welcome than at the door of the settler's cabin. It might
                    be that the house was already crowded to overflowing, but there was always a free will to
                    "scrouge over" and make room for another benighted visitor. A traveler who found
                    himself stranded deep on the American frontier in the forties inquired of a householder if he might
                    spend the night and received the 
                  
                     2
                            Ibid. Likewise see Gilbert Imlay, A Topographical Description
                                of the Western Territory of North America (
                                London
                            , 1792), passim; Francois Michaux, Travels to the
                                Westward of the Alleghany Mountains … (
                                London
                            , 1805), passim.
                  
                     3 For a splendid analysis of the frontier character see John L.
                            McConnel, Western Characters or Types of Border Life in the Western States
                            (Redfield, 
                                New York
                            , 1853), 106–156. Earlier appraisals are to be found in Joseph
                            Doddridge, Notes + on the Settlement and Indian Wars of the Western
                                Parts of 
                                    Virginia
                                 and 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                      … (
                        Albany,
                                    New York
                     , 1876), passim; Christian Schultz, Travels on an Inland Voyage Through the
                                States of New-York, 
                           Pennsylvania,
                                        Virginia, Ohio, Kentucky
                         and 
                                    Tennessee
                                , and Through the Territories of Indiana, 
                           Louisiana, Mississippi
                         and New-Orleans; Performed in the Years 1807 and
                                1808 … (2 vols. in one, 
                                New York
                            , 1810), II, 16–25. A more mature contemporary view of America moving
                            westward is to be found in Timothy Flint, A Condensed Geography and History of
                                the Western States, or the 
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley (2 vols., 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            1828), I, 197–242; Robert Baird, View of the Valley of the 
                                    Mississippi
                                , or the Emigrants and Traveler's Guide to the West
                                    (
                        Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                     , 1834), 52–67,
                            99–106; James Hall, Letters from the West (
                                London
                            , 1828), 173.
                  
                     4 "Catching Buffalo with a Gig," The
                                Spirit of the Times, XIV (September 21, 1844), 337.
               
                     answer, "Wal, I reckon; but you'll have to cut
                    your own roughness." Fodder for. the traveler's horse was as
                    necessary as a bed for the master, but it was a little too much to ask the host who was barefooted
                    and in his night shirt to "cut the roughness." Inside the cabin
                    the "old lady" informed the newcomer that "We have had a
                    quiltin’ stranger and there's a power of young folks in the house, and mostly
                    gals too—Find a place to sleep, if you can, but it's mighty unsartin."
                    By the flickering light of the fire there were visible the sleeping forms of ten or a dozen persons
                    of both sexes resting on bedsteads and on the floor, but soon the sprawling hulk of an overgrown boy
                    was spotted and the weary sojourner crawled in beside him and was off "to the land of
                        nod."5
            
            Everywhere the newcomer was greeted with the same offhand extension of hospitality, and with the same
                    absence of excuse making. A Tennessean greeted a horseman, whose nag's feet were worn
                    tender, and who had asked the priviledge of resting a day or two to give the animal an opportunity
                    to mend, with, "Well Stranger, I jest can; but, Stranger can you eat hog and hominy and
                    drink corn?"6 The old West was truly a land of log cabin
                    democracy. A major portion of its population was on the move, and a man who had stationed himself on
                    a piece of land had no intention of remaining in his present circumstances longer than was
                    absolutely necessary. The settler was driven forward by the great sentiment of America on the move,
                    which was a burning desire "to better his condition." A father saw his gawky son
                    growing to manhood, and his hope was that the boy would do better than he, and "doing
                    better" was more than a matter of just getting along."
            The backwoodsman was not cut to a single personality pattern as so many of his visitors thought. To
                    them an 
                  
                     5 "A Letter about Grouse," ibid.,
                            XIV (September 28, 1844), 363.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., XVI (March 14, 1846), 32.
                  
                     7 Hall, Letters from the West, 87, 139, 173. A
                            splendid, and, no doubt honest, discussion of the process of settlement and economic
                            expansion of the backwoods is to be found in Morris Birkbeck, Notes on a
                                Journey in America from the Coast of 
                                    Virginia
                                 to the Territory of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1818), 56–85; Charles J. Latrobe, The Rambler in North
                                America, MDCCCXXXII-MDCCCXXXIII (2 vol., 
                                London
                            , 1836), I, 83–98. A general coverage of the Indiana frontier is to
                            be found in the composite volume, Harlow Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early
                                Travelers, A Collection of Reprints from Books on Travel, Letters and Diaries Prior to
                                1830 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916).
               
                     American was an American, and a rough uncouth one generally was
                    looked upon as a frontiersman.8 Early in the history of the backwoods, names
                    classifying the various personalities and characteristics were originated. A rugged boatman who took
                    the river by storm, and who spent his first days among the down-river French communities tearing
                    things apart in his own particular way was called a "Kentuckian." It soon
                    developed that every rowdy who went on a, "bender" in the lower-river towns was
                    looked upon as a "Kentuckian" whether he had ever seen that state or not. All that
                    was necessary to get him in that class was to be crudely dressed, two-thirds drunk, unshaven,
                    unwashed, and ready as he expressed it, for a "little mite of fun" on his own
                    terms. Kentuckians themselves considered that they were "hosses" and everyone
                    around them was a "hoss." The most powerful thing in their lives, outside of the
                    "ol’ Massasip," and thunder and lightning, was a horse. It was not
                    enough to be a "hoss," but it was necessary to be a real genuine "red
                    hoss," and so they called themselves when they wished to be especially emphatic. This term
                    had a real meaning to a large segment of the backwoods people.9
            
            Across the 
                        Ohio
                     River the land left a different impression upon its people. It is true that large
                    numbers of Kentuckians, Virginians, Carolinians, and Tennesseans moved beyond the river and
                    populated the country, but so did Yankees and other upriver folk with the result that a new
                    personality came into existence in the Hoosier. His neighbors to the east, like that sturdy 
                        Ohio
                     Valley tree, were Buckeyes, and sometimes they were just as unpredictable as were the
                    results from eating one of the mahogany colored nuts of this famous tree. To the west in 
                        Illinois
                     were the Suckers. These names were more or less self-assumed, and today their sources
                    of origin are pretty well obscured in controversy and antiquity. 
                  
                     8 This point was to be one of much contention. Nearly every traveler
                            commented upon the character of the people, but a careful examination will show that many
                            wrote their impressions on the basis of the people whom they saw along the rivers. Specific
                            references to this point are to be found in Hall, Letters from the West,
                            238, 350–351, and, Charles A. Murray, Travels in North America
                                During the Yews 1834, 1835 & 1836 (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1839), 11, 211. Also, The Spirit of the Times, XVI
                            (September 5, 1846), 331.
                  
                     9 Anderson C. Quisenberry, The Life and Times of Humphrey
                                Marshall (Winchester, 
                                Kentucky
                            , 1890), 38; Frances Trollope, Domestic Manners of the
                            Americans (
                                London
                            . 1927). 13–21.
               
                     There is little uncertainty, however, as to their true
                    descriptive meaning.10
            
            It was to the land of the Red Horses, the Hoosiers, the Buckeyes, and the Suckers that a veritable
                    army of travelers came visiting. The fame of the backwoodsmen had spread far and wide, but the fame
                    of his fine land was even more narrated abroad. A hoard of porcine British, European, and Yankee
                    travelers poured into the region like grasshoppers to "observe" and to growl about
                    what they saw. They wore their feelings pinned to their coat sleeves, and hopefully expected to have
                    them injured. Charles J. Latrobe, an Englishman, said they were to be met with along the roads and
                    on the steamboats. Stragglers invaded the interior and went "marching onward to the music
                    of their own dissatisfied grumbling, like a bear with a sore head."11
                    There were sensitive Frenchmen who came to visit the country and its people and went away to portray
                    them in about the same general truthful perspective as did that French artist who decorated an early
                    book on America in which he gave the Indians the dress and facial expressions of Grecian senators
                    and Roman war lords. The 
                  
                     10 General views of the American backwoodsmen are to be found in the
                            following: James 
                                Brown
                             to Nathaniel Hart, April 6, 1805, Thomas 
                                Clay
                             Papers, Library of Congress; Benjamin Cassedy, History of 
                                    Louisville
                                
                      (
                                Louisville
                            , 1852), 62–81, 145–146, 211–214; Thomas Ashe,
                                Travels in America, Performed in 1806 … (
                                London
                            , 1808), 240–245. A good discussion of the term Buckeye as applied to
                            the Ohioan is found in the appendix of Benjamin Drake, Tales and Sketches from
                                the Queen City (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1838), 166–180;
                            "Memorandums of a Tour made by Josiah Espy in the States of 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Kentucky
                             and Indiana Territory in 1805," in the 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Valley Historical Series (7 vols., 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            1868–1871), VII (1871), 24; Karl Postel (Charles Sealsfield), The
                                Americans as They are; Described in a Tour Through the Valley of the 
                                    Mississippi
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1828), 84; G. W. Featherstonbaugh, Excursion Through the Slave
                                States … (
                                New York
                            , 1844), 58–62; Charles F. Hoffman, A Winter in the
                            West (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1835), II, 118–119; The 
                        New
                                    Orleans, Louisiana
                     ,
                                Picayune, quoted in the 
                        Frankfort, Kentucky
                     ,
                                Commonwealth, August 20, 1839; John S. Robb, Streaks of
                                Squatter Life, and Far West Scenes (
                        Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                     , 1847), 11–56; Sandford C. Cox, Recollections of the Early Settlement of the 
                                    Wabash
                                 Valley (
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, 1860), 51–53; "The Hoosier and the Salt
                            Pile," Franklin K. Meine, Tall Tales of the Southwest (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 87–91. Typical of this Hoosier characterization for popular
                            consumption which had a persistent life, is the following: "sal is there anybody
                            courtin’ you now?" "Well Sam, there is one feller
                            sorter courtin’, and sorter not, but I reckon is more sorter not, than
                            sorter." 
                        Salisbury, North Carolina
                     , Watchman, January
                            5, 1872. A native reference to Hoosierana is to be found in Baynard R. Hall (Robert
                            Carlton), The New Purchase; or Early Years in the Far West (2 vols. in
                            one, New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, 1855), 46–52.
                  
                     11 Latrobe, The Rambler in North America, II,
                        313.
               
                     fussy German, an occasional Italian, and many Yankees made
                    hurried trips into the backwoods and rushed home to write the only "true picture of
                    frontier America and its inhabitants."12
            
            As has always been true of provincial Americans, the backwoodsmen were great practical jokers. Their
                    first impulse has ever been to make things look as bad as possible to a naive and disgruntled
                    stranger. An old joke which had grown hoary with age and mud before the first decade of the
                    nineteenth century ended, and ever attracted the attention of the gullible traveler who wished to
                    believe the worst, was the one of a man stuck so deep in a mudhole that only his hat showed above
                    the surface of the ground. When a Britisher tipped his hat over with a riding whip the backwoodsman
                    growled, "‘Hullo, stranger! who told you to knock my hat
                    off?’" An offer of assistance brought the self-assured
                    reply,"’ "Oh, never mind, I'm in rather a bad
                    fix it is true, but I have an excellent horse under me, who has carried me through many a worse
                    place than this—we shall get along.’ "13 That mud
                    was plentiful is an indisputable fact, and that it was an obstacle in the way of all who traveled in
                    the backwoods goes without saying. But it is doubtful that roads ever got as bad as the figure of
                    speech of the backwoodsman who said it would "bog a buzzard's shadow," or
                    ever as discouraging as Thomas Hulme said he found it. On June 28, 1819, he wrote an English friend
                    that, "Before we got to the 
                        Wabash
                     we had to cross a swamp of half a mile wide; we were obliged to lead our horses, and
                    walk up to the knees in mud and water. Before we got half across we began to think of going back;
                    but, there is a sound bottom under it all, and we waded through it as well we could."
                    Later, James Hall commented that if Hulme waded through mud leading his horse behind him then he did
                    so because he liked it. It was his impression that the Englishman could have 
                  
                     12 There is almost no end to these books and articles. This particular
                            type of literature constitutes one of the most important collections of contemporary social
                            materials now available. Characteristic of the foreigner's concept of the American,
                            white and Indian, are the drawings in P. J. B. Nougart, Bcautes de
                                L'Histoire des Etats-Unis de L'Amerique Septentrionle (
                                Paris
                            , 1817), 50, 132, 286, 375, 391, 411, 487.
                  
                     13 Hall, Letters from the West,
                        347–348.
               
                     found a somewhat more pleasant way of groveling in the mud than
                    wading through it in a 
                        Wabash
                     swamp.14
            
            Mud, jostling stagecoaches, clumsy flatboats, steamboats, crowded inns, crude log cabins, unwashed
                    humanity, and sharp elbows were all irksome. Many of those who came to see the backwoods were
                    confused and harassed by superficialities. They had never learned two basic facts before they left
                    home. First, that frontiersmen were on the move; the people were looking to the future and cared
                    little for the immediate present, or had little reverence for the past. That backwoodsmen had few
                    traditions, few social amenities, and little doubt of their own ability to deal with circumstances.
                    It never occurred to the average frontiersman that his personal habits, table manners, mode of
                    speaking or general appearance was anything to excite a stranger. Where the French and English
                    peasants were tractable, governable, and meticulous, the American was careless about his dress, his
                    homestead and his manners. As one of his most sympathetic historians has said, he was
                    "blunt, straightforward, and independent in discourse." He was
                    "intractable, beyond control." Where others were more careful about appearances,
                    but more timid in the face of circumstances, the American backwoodsman was master. Instead of
                    yielding to circumstance he made circumstance yield to him. When the forest got in his way he
                    slashed his way through it with ax and fire. When the river got rough with him he bared his arms,
                    shouted his choicest epithets, and brought it to bay with flat and steamboats. When an adversary
                    challenged him he gritted his teeth, lowered his head and charged headlong with the roar and fury of
                    a bull.15
            
            When the backwoodsman was "riled up"’ he became a vertiable volcano on
                    legs. Perhaps the first bit of tough backwoods talk ever recorded was that by Christian Schultz.
                    While strolling along the water front at Natchez, he heard two Kentuckians who, in a playful mood,
                    were excoriating each other. On April 13, 1808, he wrote his "Dear Friend" 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 380–381. Also, Thomas Hulme, "Journal of a Tour
                            in the Western Countries of America, September 30, 1818–August 8, 1819, in Reuben
                            G. Thwaites, Early Western Travels, 1748–1846 (32 vols.,
                                    
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     , 1904–1907), X (1904), 47.
                  
                     15 McConnel, Western Characters or Types of Border Life
                                in the Western States, 154–155; Latrobe, The Rambler in
                                North America, 11, 316.
               
                     a sample of "The curious slang made use of on this
                    occasion." As he said he preferred to select a few random examples of the brilliant
                    expressions. One of the angry Kentuckians said: "‘I am a man; I am a horse; I am
                    a team. I can whip any man in all 
                            Kentucky
                        
               , by G-d." Quickly his opponent countered with"’ I
                    am an alligator; half man, half horse; can whip any on the 
                            Mississippi
                        
                by G-d.’" The "Horse and Team"
                    wasn't satisfied to be outbragged so he answered back witn the positive statement that
                    " ‘I am a man; I have the best horse, best dog, best gun, and handsomest wife in
                    all 
                        Kentucky
                    , by G-d.’ " The "Alligator" was to have the last
                    say and he declared " ‘I am a 
                        Mississippi
                     snapping turtle: have bear's claws, alligator's teeth, and the
                    devil's tail; can whip any man, by G-d.’"16 This is a trite story which has been repeated on innumerable occasions, but,
                    no doubt, this is the beginning of a long list of this type observation which was made upon the
                    rowdiness of the backwoodsman. In fact, this was to be one of the traits most frequently noticed.
            It is obviously true that a very small portion of the backwoods population was of the "true
                    half-horse, half-alligator genuine snapper" class, but there were enough of the
                    "real things" to lend flavor and a slight bit of credence to the scores of stories
                    which were written about backwoods brutality. Stories of gouging were numerous. Travelers told of
                    seeing fights in which noses and ears were bitten off, and eyes were gouged out.17 The way of the river was hard, and those who floated southward aboard flatboats were rugged
                    self-reliant individualists to say the least. Like men everywhere away from home and constantly
                    flaunting themselves in the face of danger they were willing to take long chances. At the dives
                    along the river from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     they were in constant danger of being taken advantage of, and of losing their lives. At 
                        Memphis
                    , Vicksburg, Natchez-under-the-hill, 
                        Baton Rouge
                    , and 
                        New Orleans
                     even the most innocent 
                        Kentucky
                     or Indiana farmer became a rowdy for a spell and went tearing around proclaiming his
                    powers to the bewildered populaces. Sometimes he whooped and yelled and bragged for self-protection,
                    and at other times 
                  
                     16 Schultz, Travels on and Inland Voyage, II,
                            145–146.
                  
                     17 Timothy Flint, Recollections of the Last Ten
                            Years … (
                                Boston
                            , 1826)’ 97–98; Murray, Travels in North
                                America, I, 210–213; Postel (Sealafield), The Americans As
                                They Are, 112.
               
                     for self-amusement. But whatever the reason he attracted enough
                    attention to be written about in scores of books and articles, and to insure his colorful
                    phraseology a permanent place in the history of the American language.18
            
            It is not at all difficult to imagine the reactions of a naïve but fussy observer whose
                    eyes fell upon all the blood and thunder stories which the frontiersmen themselves conjured up. As
                    the editor of the Spirit of the Times said, in 1845, "a good story will
                    bear repetition once a year," and at least once a year for several decades the editors
                    dragged out one of the many versions of the retankerous "Billy
                    Earthquake" and introduced him to the reading public. Sometimes Billy was a wild snag
                    drifting down the river, sometimes he took the form of a much abused upriver man who had been shoved
                    off a gang plank and ducked in the "drink" much to his mortification, and
                    sometimes he was "one of the people" standing around an election who was
                    thoroughly bored with the whole process of quiet and orderly democracy. In order to stir things up
                    and make his auditors appreciate the privilege of living in a free country where "one man
                    was as good as another, and sometimes a whole sight better," the irascible Billy announced
                        
                        This is me; if it ain't cuss me, and no mistake! Billy Earthquake, Esquire, commonly
                            called Little Billy, all the way from the big north fork of the Muddy Run!—
                            I'm a small speciman as you can see—a remote circumstance—a
                            mere yearling, but I am of the true imported breed, and I can whip any man in this section
                            of country! Wh-o-o-p! Won't nobody come out and fight
                            me? Come out some o’ you and die decently, for I'm spiling for a fight! I han't had one for more than a week, and if
                            you don't come out, I'm fly-blowed before sun down its a
                            certainty!—so come up to taw!
                        Maybe you don't know who Little Billy is? I'll tell you; I am a
                            poor man, it's a fact—and smell like a wet dog; but I can't be
                            run over! I'm the identical individual that grinned a menagerie out of countenance,
                            and made the ribbed nose baboon hang down his head and blush. Whoop! I'm the chap
                            that towed the broad horn flat boat up Salt River, where the snags were so thick that a fish
                            couldn't swim without rubbing his scales off! Facts, and if anybody doubts it, just
                            let them make their will. Cock-a-doodle-doo! maybe you never heard 
                        
                           18 Otto A. Rothert, Outlaws of Cave-in Rock
                                    … (
                              Cleveland, Ohio
                           , 1924), 37–53;
                                    Robert M. Coates, The Outlaw Years. The History of the Land Pirates of
                                        the Natchez Trace (
                                        New York
                                    , 1930), 73–105; Quisenberry, The Life and Times
                                        of Humphrey Marshall, 38; Walter Blair and Franklin J. Meine, Mike Fink, King of 
                                            Mississippi
                                         Keelboatmen (
                                        New York
                                    , 1933), 55–75; Cassedy, History of 
                                            Louisville
                                        
                           , 62–81.
                     
                             of the time a horse kicked me and put both his hips out
                            of joint!— If it ain't true cut me up for catfish bait. I'm the
                            very infant that refused its mother's milk before its eyes were open, and called
                            out for a bottle of white-eye whiskey! Wh-o-o-p-hoo-ey! Wake snakes and come at me! Perhaps,
                            too, you never heerd of a youth that tried to look loving at a gal, and threw her into
                            spasmodics, and she is a roaring, raving mainyac to this day. Wh-o-o-p, I'm that
                            little cupid!— tain't nothing!—one squint of mine at a
                            bull's heel would blister it! O, I'm one of your toughest
                            sort—live forever and turn to a white oak post. Look at me! (said he, slapping
                            his hand on his thigh with the report of a pistol) I'm the genewine
                            article—a real double-acting engine. I'm the lowcumotion that pushed the
                            bull off the bridge and I can outrun, out jump, out swim, out talk, out eat, chaw more
                            tobacco and spit less, drink more whiskey and keep soberer than any other man in these
                            localities! Damn it, if that don't make ‘em fight, nothing will. I wish
                            I may be kiln dried, and split up into wooden shoepegs, if I believe there's a chap
                            among ‘em that's got courage enough to collar a hen! Wh-o-o-o-hoo-ey!
                            Well (said Bill, walking off in disgust) I'll go home and have another settlement
                            with Joe Sykes. He's a bad chance for a fight, seeing as how he's got but
                            one eye left to gouge at, and an underbit out of both ears, but poor fellow, he's
                            mighty willing to do his best and will stay a body's appetite till next shooting
                                match.19
                  
                     Billy spoke all the words and was able to sing all the music of the border ruffian.
                    Billy's words were carefully chosen for him, and he was made to crowd as much blood and
                    thunder in his boasts as his authors could think up for him. The backwoodsmen loved his boasting;
                    they loved his cocky self-assurance, and his harsh and disastrous language struck a humorous chord.
            Many gouging stories stemmed from such manufactured banter. It is not difficult to imagine the
                    fiendish delight which some waggish steamboat passenger got out of telling bloody gouging stories to
                    that fussy European partisan Karl Postel, or, as he called himself, Charles Sealsfield. He records
                    the story that Battle Island in the 
                        Mississippi
                     River got its name from a gouging which occurred there between two Kentuckians. It was
                    said that their flatboat captain was compelled to land them, and that after half an hour the
                    belligerents returned to the boat, one with his nose bitten off, the other with his eyes scooped out
                    of their sockets.20
            
            Nothing was more natural than that the backwoodsmen 
                  
                     19 "Another Earthquake," The Spirit of
                                the Times, XIV (February 1, 1845), 581.
                  
                     20 Postel (Sealsfield), The Americans As They Are,
                            112; William Faux, Memorable Days in America: Being a Journal of a Tour to the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1823), 318–319.
               
                     would carry knives. These instruments were as necessary as any
                    other single piece of equipment which the average man owned. To the casual uninitiated observer they
                    were lethal weapons and were used by their owners to carve veritable paths of blood. Like so many
                    other American implements and customs, the carrying of knives was practically unknown to the
                    European and British travelers. This was especially true of the Englishmen who were accustomed to
                    British laws which frowned upon personal possession of such things. In several instances it appears
                    that the authors of descriptions of America were unable to distinguish between pocketknives and what
                    the backwoodsmen called dirks. Charles A. Murray in his book, Travels in North
                    America digresses to describe the knife carrying citizens of 
                        Kentucky
                    . "In addition to the above traits of character, there is one which I cannot
                    speak otherwise than with unqualified reprobation— I mean the cowardly and almost
                    universal practice of carrying a dirk-knife." This instrument was displayed on every
                    occasion just as one might display a walking cane, said the Englishman, and, "I have seen
                    several well-dressed Kentuckians, who probably think themselves much injured if they were not
                    considered gentlemen of the first grade picking their teeth with these elegant pocket companions in
                    public; and I have repeatedly seen them while engaged in conversation employ their hands in opening
                    and shutting their dirk springs."21 Another traveler saw four glass
                    cases in 
                        Louisville
                    , "Set out on the pavement, filled with pistols of all kinds, murderous
                    bowie-knives, and large clasp-knives with long dagger like blades. The habit continues with many in
                    the communities of the west, of carrying about with them these instruments of destruction, and many
                    instances occur of their fatal use when passions are excited."22
                    Certainly this visitor dealt with the subject of misconduct south of the 
                        Ohio
                     in gentler terms than did one of his fellow countrymen who had come down the river
                    twenty-nine years before. On October 27, 1819, that blustering Britisher, William Faux, entered in
                    his journal his sentiments toward the folks over the river. He wrote "At sunrise I left 
                        Louisville
                    , in Colonel 
                  
                     21 Murray, Fravels in North America, I, 212; James
                            Stuart, Three Years in North America (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1833), II, 169–170.
                  
                     22 Archibald Prentice, A Tour in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1848), 50.
               
                     Johnson's carriage and pair, for 
                        Vincennes
                    , in Indiana, well-pleased to turn my back on all the spitting, gouging, dirking.
                    duelling, swearing, and staring, of old 
                        Kentucky
                    ."23
            
            Certainly the disgruntled Faux had not left all of these objectionable features behind, because in a
                    short time he was to learn that although he had moved into another state he was among the same
                    people in fact. They carried dirks and occasionally used them whether in picking their teeth or in
                    slashing a neighbor. In Indiana, Charles Sealsfield saw me Hoosier knife another one over a bit of
                    complicity of a marital nature. The cuckold husband was stabbed to death, and his murderer, he said,
                    escaped the gallows by the tactful use of three thousand dollars. Even the friendly American
                    apologist, James Hall, had to admit that "‘a dirk is the
                    constant companion of every gentleman in 
                        Illinois
                    .’"24 At this late date, however, it is indeed
                    hard to evaluate these characterizations of the backwoodsman. Perhaps everything from a utility
                    pocketknife to the highly lethal bowie knife was a dirk to the writers of the first half of the
                    nineteenth century.
            If the American frontiersmen were not dragging an "
                        Arkansas
                     Toothpick" gently across the hide of an antagonist, they were taking deadly
                    aim with their rifles and pistols. The rifle was a symbol of backwoods security, and it was a
                    necessary weapon in every household. So important was the ability to handle a rifle that it early
                    became a matter of political significance. One observer said that in many communities in the West,
                    handling the rifle well was a greater popular asset than having stump-speaking ability. If the
                    candidate for office had a stoop to his shoulders, that was an accepted sign that he had carried a
                    rifle and had worked hard at making a living.
            Occasionally a jubilant son of the border released steam by firing his pistol into the air letting
                    out Indian yells that would curdle the blood of the tenderhearted. It is not difficult to imagine
                    the feeling of an Englishman who was "supping upon slices of bacon, roasted corn bread, and
                    some milk" when his host and a companion returned from a horse race and proceeded to fire
                    their pistols before dismounting.25
                    
                  
                     23 Faux, Memorable Days in America, 203.
                  
                     24 Hall, Letters from the West, 355.
                  
                     25 Postel (Sealsfield), The Americans As They Are,
                            22–23.
               
                     An American wanderer of modest habits and equipment was
                    surprised in 
                        Ohio
                     at the curiosity and disdain which his shotgun created. In a land where getting
                    directly to the point was a prime virtue, the shotgun was a little too modern and untried. This
                    stranger said "The people scorn a weapon less deadly than the rifle, and practice has made
                    them remarkably expert in the use of this national arm." A native son said that it
                    "‘Luck's like a shot-gun, mighty uncertain.26
            
            The open display of weapons was startling, of course, but those pestiferous authors who were so
                    busily engaged in criticizing the backwoodsmen for what they considered a flagrant breach of good
                    human conduct seldom took time to discover the reason for such a practice. The foreigner who was so
                    impressed by the display of guns had little conception of the experience through which the country
                    was passing in the process of settlement.
            Coupled with the open and free use of knives and guns was the constant imbibing of liquor, and
                    numerous descriptions of the backwoodsmen refer to their heavy drinking. In fact, so much point is
                    made of drinking that it is a matter of wonderment in this day of modern medical knowledge that
                    anybody in the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     valleys ever lived beyond three score years because of sclerosis of the liver. Drinking
                    liquor was as much a matter of popular acceptance as drinking spring water. A little shot of
                    "old Mononghahela" or the caged lightning from the head of the hollows of
                    Ol’ Kaintuck was sufficient to make the most lackadaisical backwoodsman the equal of his
                    peers any day in the week. Drinking liquor in many communities was taken for granted, even if the
                    mode of drinking seldom conformed to the strictest code of sanitation. The Englishman who was so
                    rudely drawn away from the dinner table by his host's firing off a brace of pistols was
                    invited to have "a snort" with the boys. The Kentuckian stood.
            
                    With a quart bottle in one hand, and with the other drawing the remains of tobacco from his
                        mouth, in a rather nauseous manner, the host drank for half a minute out of the bottle; then
                        took from the slave the can with water, and handed the bottle to me, the mouth of which had
                        assumed, from the remains of the tobacco, a brownish colour. The Kentuckian looked displeased
                        when I wiped the bottle. 
                     
                        26 Hall, Letters from the West, 86.
                  
                         I however took no notice of him, but presented it, after
                        having drunk, to his friend.27
               
                
            No one ever denied the prevalence of drinking on the frontier. A most sympathetic observer said that
                    the backwoodsmen were far from being intemperate, but if by intemperance was meant frequent nipping
                    at the bottle then there was something to the contention. He believed that "in the West and
                    South, the custom (of dram drinking) prevails to a degree ruinous to the moral and physical strength
                    of a great part of the male population."28
            
            It is doubtful that some of the backwoods juries would have agreed with this point of view. One grand
                    jury foreman sent word to the judge that that body could not agree on the case before it, and that
                    if the court kept him any longer without grog he would whip his honor on sight.29 An even more tedious question arose in a 
                        Missouri
                     county where the grand jury was called upon to do the embarrassing thing and indict all
                    whiskey dealers who persisted on remaining in business without buying licenses. A local lawyer
                    recorded the scene which transpired under the shade of a tree where the jury was holding its
                    deliberations. A "pint of law" had arisen which demanded the attention of the
                    county prosecutor, and "on my arrival at the tree where they had assembled," he
                    wrote in his scrapbook, 
                        I found them sitting on the ground around a large keg of whiskey, besides which sat a man not
                            belonging to the jury, with a tin cup in his hand busily engaged in drawing off the whiskey
                            and handing it to the jurors, who successively emptied the contents down their throats.
                        The "pint of law" which had given them so much trouble, was whether the
                            vendor of this whiskey was indictable for selling it without a license. It was admitted he
                            had no license; but on the other hand it was contended that the law requiring a license was
                            "agin the constertution."
                     Other strong contentions were voiced. Whether or not the act was "agin’
                    the constertution" the vendor in question should be exempted because he sold his delectable
                    merchandise 
                  
                     27 Postel (Seals field), The Americans As They Are,
                            22–23.
                  
                     28 Latrobe, The Rambler in North America, I,
                            290–291; Anne Royal, Letters from 
                                    Alabama
                                 on Various ‘Subjects (
                                Washington
                            , 1830), 19–20; Postel (Sealsfield), The Americans As
                                They Are, 72–78; The Spirit of the Times, XIV (July
                            27, 1844); Henry B. Fearson, Sketches of America… (
                                London
                            , 1819), 249–250.
                  
                     29
                            The Spirit of the Times, XIV (July 27, 1844), 253.
               
                     at one-half the price demanded by the licensed grocers, and it
                    appeared to the jury to be both unjust and contrary to the "spirit of the law" to
                    indict a man who was saving the people from the extortionate grocery keepers. The jury maintained
                    that their friend with the tin cup was not indictable since he sold his liquor to that body on such
                    reasonable terms. Furthermore, no one else should be indictable for selling liquor without a license
                    except those greedy dealers who demanded grocery prices.30
            
            The same philosophy tempted a state legislator from the "diggings" to rear up on
                    his hind feet and speak at length on a bill which proposed relief for the "Free Citizens of 
                        Mississippi
                     and Travellers" by permitting a grocery keeper to sell "alcoholic,
                    vinous and other fermenting liquors in any quantity over a quart, provided he keeps order in the
                    house when the same is drunk.":31 This backwoods Cincinnatus declared
            
                    I railly aint no objection myself to ‘splain the bill, becas I think the bill
                        ‘splains itself. We all on us like a little drap o’ suthin ardent
                        —some genelmen carries a bottle—some genelmen don't—I
                        allus carry a bottle myself and I knows many genelmen now standin’ and
                        sittin’ around me who takes a drop whenever they kin—and these genelmen,
                        as well as myself's now by law obleeged to buy a gallon when we oney wants half a pint,
                        which is contrary to the Constitution, contrary to human natur and contrary to the rights of all
                        free white citizens of the state of Masseysap, and travellers in gineral.32
               
                
            Where there was dram drinking there was swearing. Many visitors to the backwoods were impressed with
                    the offhand way in which the average man uttered oaths. They spiced their conversations with
                    blasphemy that was downright frightening to timid souls, who gave heed to the wrath to come, and
                    infuriating to preachers in general.33 Charles 
                  
                     30 "Life in the Backwoods, Scraps from the Note Book of a 
                                Missouri
                             Lawyer," ibid., XVI (October 24, 1846), 415.
                  
                     31 "Fun at the Capitol of 
                                Mississippi
                            ," ibid., XIV (March 16, 1844), 27.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid.
                  
                     33 The American's swearing always attracted the attention of
                            foreigners and of Americans who visited the backwoods on religious missions. Just as tall.
                            talk was a factor in the lives of many frontiersmen so was swearing. They swore not to
                            blaspheme the objects of their simulated wrath particularly but to let off steam. As a
                            consequence, this habit was made a matter of record in travel accounts, and in the numerous
                            frontier tales which were published. Many of the newspaper stories and those appearing in
                            the Spirit of the Times with their blanked in oaths are illustrative of
                            this point.
               
                     A. Murray was especially caustic in his condemnation of the
                    Westerners’ profanity. He claimed that he stayed long enough to become pretty well
                    grounded in the fundamentals of frontier character, especially that of 
                        the more rough and unpolished portions of society; indeed, the swearing of some of the lower
                            orders in the West, especially among the horse-traders and gamblers, would shock ears
                            accustomed to the language of Billingsgate or a 
                                London
                             gin-shop, so full is it of blasphemy; and uttered in such a deliberate and
                            determined tone, such as to induce the belief that the speaker really wishes the fulfillment
                            of the curses which he imprecates. I have heard the vulgar oaths of many countries, as the
                            French, the English, the Irish, and Scotch (which three last have safety-valves of wrath),
                            the Dutch, the German, the Italian, and the Portuguese: of course, they are all vulgar, all
                            more or less blasphemous and disgusting to the ear; but I never heard them so offensive, or
                            so slowly and deliberately uttered, as in the mouths of the North Americans.
                    Certainly the backwoodsmen were not sensitive on this score. Swearing to them was a natural
                    thing, and it let off, in the words of the "real things," "a power of
                    steam that was a ‘raring to go."34
            
            Not alone in drinking and swearing did the backwoodsmen come under the scrutiny of both their critics
                    and defenders, but likewise their table manners were "a caution" to everybody who
                    took time to observe them. There was never any doubt in the backwoodsman's mind as to why
                    he took his seat at the table. He was eating to live, and dining for him was as much a businesslike
                    proposition as was cutting a ring around a white oak tree in order to get it off the land, the
                    building of a house, or sitting on the jury. His whole philosophy of dining could be summed up in
                    the specific formula of "set down, eat, git up, pick your teeth and go." Or,
                    perhaps, the art of dining was more eloquently analyzed by a native son who was in the throes of
                    excitement of a party when he prefaced his announcement that "the vittles was
                    ready" with the jovial statement that "nives is scace, so what thar is leave to
                    the galls and let the balance use thar hans—they were invented afore nives eneyhow. Now
                    gents, jist walk into the fat of this land. I'm sorter feerd the honey won't last
                    to day break, but the liquor will, 
                  
                     34 Murray, Travels in North America, I,
                            220–221; also Captain Thomas Hamilton, Men and Manners in
                            America (2 vols., 
                        Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                     , 1833), II, 90.
               
                    
                    I think, so when you drink your'n, run and kiss the galls for
                    sweetenin’—let them have the honey—it belongs to them
                        naturally."35
            
            Certainly nowhere else in the civilized world could man be assured of a more abundant supply of
                    substantial food than in the American backwoods. As one observer noted, it was not much of a job for
                    the average frontier housewife, within an hour's notice, to spread before her guests
                    "a plenteous meal of ham, fried chicken, eggs, milk, honey, delicious butter, boiled maize
                    and hot wheaten bread."36 Not alone were these foods readily available
                    but it was not impossible in most places to find enough game meat to amplify the diet. Yet the food,
                    like the people, was made a subject of frequent criticism. Visitors were often unsympathetic and
                    ignorant of the methods of preparing meals. Even in the face of bounteous feasts there were those
                    selfish stubborn travelers who demanded still more. They didn't like the hard liquors, they
                    found American wine abominable, they scoffed at the coffee, especially that which was made from
                    grain, and damned the American backwoods ignoramus who knew little or nothing about the more
                    sophisticated European and English beverage, tea. One such stranger asked a backwoods family to make
                    some tea for him, and supplied a pound of fine hysom leaves which he had carefully hoarded, but to
                    his utter amazement and disgust when he seated himself at the table the cook had boiled the tea
                    leaves in the same manner as greens, and the host said "stranger, these ar’
                    about the best greens I ever tasted, I want to find out where you get ‘em."37
            
            Even though the food came in for both praise and criticism, the eating of it was ever a source of
                    wonderment to those who were not used to the businesslike way in which Americans satiated their
                    appetites. 
                  
                     35
                            The Spirit of the Times, XV (August 2, 1845), 266.
                  
                     36 Latrobe, The Rambler in North America, II,
                            121–123; Hall (Carlton), The New Purchase; or, Early Years in the
                                Far West, 51; Postel (Sealsfield), The Americans As They Are,
                            58–59. This author complained about the food in Indiana. He claimed that he was
                            exploited by shrewd traders at 
                                Troy
                             in 
                                Crawford County
                            . "The inhabitants," he wrote, "seem rather indolent.
                            On asking for apples, they demanded ten dollars for a half barrel; the price for a whole one
                            in 
                                Louisville
                             being no more than three dollars. We advised them to keep their apples and
                            plant trees, which would enable them to raise some for themselves; and to put panes of glass
                            in their windows, instead of old newspapers."
                  
                     37 Concordia, "A New Town in 
                                Arkansas
                            ," The Spirit of the Times, XIV (March 9, 1844),
                            13–14; Nancy Guiton, "Marriage of Bill Warwick and Barry Bas,"
                                ibid., XIV (October 5, 1844), 373.
               
                    
                    
                        You spend, in fact, an uneasy ten minutes, in which the necessary act of eating is certainly
                            stripped of all the graces under which super cultivation continues to shroud its sensuality,
                            [wrote an Englishman], and is reduced to the plain homely realities of bestial feeding. Woe
                            to the poor gentleman of habitually slow and careful mastication—who was taught
                            to denticate, masticate, champ, chew and swallow! woe to the man of invariable
                            habits—he whose conversational powers are the greatest during
                            repast—the proser—the sentimental bon-vivant who
                            loves to eat and think—or the gentleman with stiff jaw bones and slow to
                            deglution!
                     It was woe to everybody else if he was slow in getting to the task of serving his plate.38 The hearty invitation of the backwoodsman to the visitor at his board,
                    "Stranger you see what's before you so dive in if you are a mind to eat it up from
                    my wife and children," was sincere despite its rugged humor.
            To the average observer the backwoodsman's habit of picking his teeth in public was
                    astounding, and when he did it with a dirk that made it even more unusual. Profound matters of
                    etiquette in time, however, were to disturb the Western American mind. The rough and ready preachers
                    were among the first to become conscious of certain indelicate mannerisms. Peter Cartwright lectured
                    Brother Axley until he brought the latter to tears because of his custom of throwing chicken bones
                    over his shoulder to the dog while still at the table.39
            
            An ardent debating society bent upon improvement of the general demeanor of its members went into the
                    fine points of table manners. One of the brethren contended with much justice that "a man
                    who ate a meal, rared back in his chair and put both legs on the table and picked his teeth with a
                    fork was no gentleman." In the face of so positive a statement, the president, a man of a
                    slightly compromising turn of mind, ruled that at least "a man who couldn't
                    content himself with one leg on the table and a civilized tooth pick, shouldn't be
                    tolerated in good society."40
            
            Wherever he went the frontiersman's clothes gave him 
                  
                     38 Latrobe, The Rambler in North America, I, 293;
                            other and equally as uncomplimentary descriptions of eating habits are to be found in 
                                Hamilton
                            , Men and Manners in America, II, 91–92; Trollope,
                                Domestic Manners of the Americans, 15.
                  
                     39
                            
                        Paris, Kentucky
                     , The Western Citizen, June 15,
                            1855.
                  
                     40
                            
                        Stanford, Kentucky
                     , The Interior Journal, February 11,
                            1876; Trollope, Domestics Manners of the Americans, 15.
               
                     away. At least those who have either written about him, or
                    portrayed him in paintings and etchings, seem generally to agree upon his appearance. His great
                    national fabric was 
                        Kentucky
                     jeans, and from it his womenfolk made his pants, coats, and westkits. His colors were
                    those of nature neutralized by hard wear and grime. In fact, the backwoodsman was a veritable Uncle
                    Sam in homespun, whose breeches reached half wav to his knees, and whose for lied coat tails often
                    sagged behind him like the great Union banner at half mast in rainy weather. That keen analyst of
                    things western, De Grachia, wrote that one of the Hogan boys of 
                        Tennessee
                     represented 
                        the larger and more numerous class. [He was] a lusty six footer, dressed from neck to heels
                            in homespun, dyed in hickory bark to the color of a poplar leaf in November, with the
                            exception of a darker shaded waistcoat of the same material and between it and the pants
                            could be seen a coarse, though clean, cotton shirt, which above was fastened by a huge round
                            horn button, around a sturdy throat untrammeled by a cravat of any kind. His nether
                            garments, rather of a dandy cut in those parts, reached within three inches of his feet,
                            which were encased in thick dirt colored socks. He wore a pair of shoes as broad and as
                            round at the toe as at the heel, and 1 would defy anyone to tell by his tracks whether he
                            traveled East or West. Elis gait was rather slow and rolling as he moved about the yard with
                            his hands immersed in his breeches pockets, anti his high crowned woolhat pulled down over
                            his eyes, thereby hiding about one-eighth of his flaxen locks.41
                  
                        A neighboring dandy, named Morris Jackman, presented a little different appearance. His
                            lowers were encased in a pair of dingy cassimere trousers, which fitted closely to his
                            shrunken shanks; a coat of well-worn blue cloth sat loosely upon his shoulders, and the
                            swallow tails thereof hung down at least six inches clear of his body, to hide as much as
                            possible of his dirty shirt, while, for the same purpose, to the extent of its ability, a
                            huge stock did its part, buckled so lightly around his neck, that his head appeared like an
                            overgrown turnip reposing on a dice box. To finish the picture, his head was surmounted by
                            an immense broadbrimmed hell crowned hat, which had been an heir loon] of the Jackman family
                            since the Revolution, 1 may as well mention that he wore an antique pair of boots, very much
                            run town at the heels.42
                  
                    
            
            Perhaps neither of these word pictures are too much overdrawn. They correspond in detail to scores of
                    other 
                  
                     41 De Grachia, "The Sale, a 
                                Tennessee
                             Sketch," The Sprit of the Times, XVI (June 27,
                            1846), 206.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid.
               
                     descriptions, and artists’ sketches of natural
                    subjects in the diggings corroborate them. George Caleb Bingham produced paintings which epitomize
                    the surface impressions of raw American democracy. Highly representative bodies of backwoodsmen were
                    assembled together by the artist in the paintings "Electioneering,"
                    "County Election," and "The Verdict of the People." In these
                    group portraits he has been able to record a fascinating portrait of the frontier. There are all the
                    types; the dandy with the long-frocked tail coats, the white bell-crowned hats, the broad stocks and
                    the Wellington boots. There are the homespun constituents with their rumpled-jeans pantaloons and
                    heavy ill-fitting coats, broadbrimmed shapeless hats, and the crude mud-clod crushing brogans. In
                    his other paintings such as "Raftsmen Playing Cards," "Watching the
                    Cargo," and "Shooting for the Beef," Bingham caught the spirit of the
                    backwoods, arid has left a graphic personal picture of its people.43
            
            Going far beyond the mere act of placing on canvass the forms and examples of early American Western
                    dress, George Caleb Bingham was careful to bring into focus in his portraits the whole vital force
                    of Western American democracy. He was able to impart to his canvasses a keen sense of political
                    activities preceding, during, and immediately after a popular election. He has placed his people
                    about on the canvass in such a way that they portray, by their facial expressions, a full sense of
                    the proceedings about them. The keen Yankee face with its pious expression of political uprightness
                    beams forth above a body clad in the plain garments of an honest sincere people. A
                    "sharp" political demagogue dressed in the casual jeans or cassimere frock coat of
                    the dignified backwoodsman pleads with the people behind a face which expresses earnest anxiety to
                    serve the people. To this assemblage are added the countenances and forms of dissolute citizens, and
                    the former are highlighted with the satisfied glow of men who find in both elections and liquor two
                    definite goods which should be preserved and utilized to the fullest extent.44
            
            
               
                  43 The originals of these paintings are located as follows:
                        "Electioneering," "County Election," and The Verdict of the
                        People." 
                            St. Louis
                         Mercantile Library; "Raftsmen Playing Cards" and
                        "Shooting for the Reef," The Garvan Collection, Yale University.
               
                  44 Engravings of Bingham's political paintings seemed to have
                        been rather widely circulated in the late fifties. Some photographic reproductions of these are
                        to be found in the catalogue of the Metropolitan Musum of Art entitled Life in
                            America (
                            New York
                        , 1939), 94–1–01.
            
            
            Many early nineteenth-century books are illustrated with drawings of Uncle Sam in homespun.
                    Especially attractive are those by Louie-Eauerle who illustrated the obscure book Brother Mason the Circuit Rider, or, Ten Years A Methodist Preacher. Looking over the
                    Methodist preacher's shoulder the artist was able literally to portray American
                    backwoodsmen in their most colorful moods. With a keen interest for humanity in its informal poses
                    he was able to reproduce on paper an honest concept of the trials and tribulations of getting along
                    on a Methodist circuit where cord beds, bedbugs, crowded cabins, and wild converts made the tenor of
                    life extremely uncertain.45
            
            Next to Bingham, Captain Basil Hall of the Royal Navy, has preserved the widest range of backwoods
                    portraits. In a considerable volume of as yet unpublished illustrative material he was able to
                    record faithful Camera Lucida pictures of the life which passed before him on a
                    journey in 1827 and 1828 from 
                        Canada
                     through the western American frontier to the rice fields of the Carolinas. In 1829 he
                    published forty of his etchings in a delightful book entitled Forty Etchings, from
                        Sketches Made with the Camera Lucida, in North America. in 1827 and 1828. Where his fellow
                    countrymen traveled through the backwoods recording their impressions in notes, Captain Hall was
                    able to carry away with him a more realistic view of the scenes of his travel. Not only did he focus
                    much attention upon the backwoodsman himself, but likewise upon his natural environment and his
                    economic pursuits.46
            
            The Yankee peddler who found his way to almost every cabin on the fringe of settlement was ever an
                    object of entertainment to the settlers. His clacking wagon, gaunt horses, and stock of notions was
                    to the backwoodsmen the soul of American industry and ingenuity. In 1835, John Whetton Ehninger
                    produced his famous painting "Yankee Peddler" which portrays faithfully the
                    process of mercantile transactions in a rural region which was far removed from shopping centers.47
            
            
               
                  45 Anonymous, Brother Mason, the Circuit Rider: or, Ten Years
                            a Methodist Preacher (
                     Cincinnati,
                                Ohio
                  , 1856), 9, 34, 62, 106, 140,
                        190, 246.
               
                  46 This volume was published in 
                            London
                        , 1829. There are approximately 250 original drawings of Captain Hall's Camera Lucida in the Indiana University Library Collection.
               
                  47 This painting was made in 1853. The original is in the
                                
                     Newark, New Jersey
                  , Museum.
            
            
            American democracy at work attracted scores of visitors to the backwoods. They came to observe the
                    processes of government at work, or to seek out islands of fresh opportunities for people who had
                    reached a state of impoverishment elsewhere. For hundreds of Europeans, Englishmen, and Eastern
                    Americans the frontier was a region of escape, but before they ventured out to it they wished to
                    know what the country was like. They sent scouts with some literary ability to survey the scene and
                    come home to write books so that all might read the truth. Too, there were those who came to refute
                    the travelers who made the land sound too attractive, but whatever the purpose behind the published
                    accounts there crept into all of them observations on the great political experiment.48
            
            To those who looked upon political institutions as highly formal ones, presided over by men of great
                    dignity the backwoods scene was unbelievable. To an Englishman, for instance, who was accustomed to
                    the pomp and ceremony of his royal government and its local branches, it was extremely shocking to
                    see a judge clad in the ordinary rough clothes of the common people and wearing coarse unpolished
                    shoes presiding over a court. The democratic attitude of complete equality of the constituent toward
                    his officials was almost too much to understand. It seemed inconsistent that an ordinary citizen
                    would treat an official with no more consideration than any other man, except when he was in the act
                    of performing his duty. It was indeed a novelty for one traveler to observe a defendant in a trial
                    in 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, lake the witness stand with his mouth full of apple which he was chewing with
                    little or no concern. When he was asked by the court, "‘Well, what have you to
                    say against the charge? You know it is high time to break up the court, and I must go
                    home?’" The defendant put his apple aside and replied in meaningful
                    backwoods elegance that, "‘it strikes me mightily.’"49
            
            
               
                  48 To a certain extent the great body of contemporary descriptive material
                        was of this nature. Specifically, there are the reports by Birkbeck, Notes on a
                            Journey in America (in addition to the 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1817, edition, there was a 
                            London
                        , 1818, edition with a slight change in title); Adlard Welby, A Visit
                            to North America and the English Settlements in 
                                Illinois
                            , with a Winter Residence at 
                                Philadelphia
                            
                  … (
                            London
                        , 1821); Faux, Memorable days in America; and Fearon, Sketches of America.
               
                  49 Postel (Sealsfield), The Americans As They Are,
                        39–40.
            
            
            Democracy, however informal it might have been, was for the backwoodsman, a vital thing. Often he
                    manifested little concern about the world which lay beyond him so long as its affairs did not affect
                    him. The great political questions of the day, except for those concerning the public lands, were
                    not too exciting. To him the vital issues we "propitious showers for his growing crops, and
                    abundant mast to fatten his hogs, and a good season for hunting," and who was to be elected
                    to the county, offices. "The election of a township constable," wrote one
                    historian of the backwoods, excites a far deeper interest in his mind than
                        the election of a president. He will remain at home, without for a moment thinking of putting
                        himself to the trouble of riding to the neighboring precinct to vote for presidential electors;
                        when, at the next constable's election, he will, if necessary, ride all day though the
                        rain, and swim a dozen creeks, to cast his vote for his favorite candidate.50
               
            
            If he voted for a constable, however, the backwoodsman wanted him to be the real stuff. Such a mail
                    was Roger Hanson who rode into a crowd of interested citizens and addressed them with
            
                    Boys, you know I'm not gin to speechifying like them lawyers, but I can bring down a
                        buck further as one of ‘em can see the white under his tail. Now, boys, I hear my
                        enemies arc got a charge again me. They says I left 
                            Tennessee
                         for hog stealing. Boys, it are a durned lie, and I'll lick lightning out
                        of the fellow what first circulated the lie, ef he'd only show himself. Boys, if
                        they'd said I'd stole anything hut a hog, I shouldn't a-minded it;
                        but to be charged with hog stealing goes agin my grain; case I allerways attested a hog thief
                        more as any mortal thing on this yearth. Boys if I'm lected constable, I'll
                        gin yer all the time the law allows. If yer charged with any offence, except hog stealing,
                        I'll gin yer all the time to run off what's necessary, and then if I catches
                        yer, it's yer own fault."
                
            Politics, political speakings, elections, barhecues, and burgoos all went together. It was not so
                    much a matter of holding office that was important to the backwoodsman as was the excellent excuse
                    for being in a crowd arid having a central theme of local interest to excite him. Qualifications for
                    office was a simple thing in his mind. All he had to do to be fitted for the job was to get enough
                    votes to be elected. The offices belonged to the people, and the more Frequently they were changed
                    the better they liked the democratic 
                  
                     50 "Life in the Backwoods, Scraps from the Note Book of a 
                                Missouri
                             Lawyer," The spirit of the Times, XVI (September 19,
                            1846), 355)’ Ibid, 256.
               
                     process.52 From the presidency of the 
                        United States
                     to a constableship in a backwoods magisterial district the attitude was the same. An 
                        Illinois
                     Sucker called at the Department of State soon after James 
                        Knox
                     Polk had become president and sought an appointment either as a charged
                        "affairs or a consulship. He was six feet three in height. He wore a
                    "muckle dun coat with common metal buttons tarnished by age." The sharp tails of
                    his jeans coat pointed straight downward, and his common gray pants gave the appearance that he had
                    grown six or eight inches after they were fitted to him. But he had heard of the term charge d'affairs and he was ready to take up his duties wherever President Polk
                    would send him. The sophisticated clerk informed the Sucker that the President had decided to
                    appoint only cripples to foreign posts, and that unless he were willing to lose an arm or a leg
                    there was little chance of his being appointed. Instead of going abroad, the backwoodsman decided a
                    job in a 
                        Washington
                     store was more lucrative, and did not require the sacrifice of a limb.53
            
            Foreign affairs attracted attention in the backwoods only when they had a direct bearing upon the
                    best interest of the West. The propaganda which led to the War of 1812 was tremendously effective in
                    stirring up anti-British sentiment, and the militiamen who fought in the battles of the Northwest
                    were slow to forget their animosities. So thoroughly were many of them imbued with the spirit of
                    expansion that they were ever suspicious of John Bull and his ambitions in the western country. In
                    the mid-forties when the newspapers helped fan anew the flames of expansion in the 
                        Oregon
                     Question, a backwoodsman was quick to make up his mind on the delicate subject of
                    joint-occupation of the Northwest. George Wilkins Kendall's Picayune
                    reported the speech of this ardent nationalist, and requested that "Messrs. Trollope, Hall,
                    Dickens, and Marryat & Co. will please give the above three insertions in their next, and
                    charge to the board of water works." "What, I say what, is the individual who
                    would give the first foot, the first outside shadow of a foot, of the Great 
                        Oregon
                    !" said the disturbed native son.
            
               
                  52 Some speeches dealing with this point are found in "Stump
                        Speaking in 
                            Arkansas
                        ," ibid, XIV (April 13, 1844), 81.
               
                  53
                        Ibid., XV (June 21, 1845), 189.
            
            
            
                    There ain't no such individual! talk about treaty occupations to a country over which
                        the great American eagle has flown! I scorn treaty occupation—-damn tieaty
                        occupation. Who wants a parcel of low flung "outside barbarism" to go in
                        cahoot with us, and share alike a piece of land that always was and always will be
                        ours? Nobody. Some people talk as though they Were afeered of 
                            England
                        . Who's afeered? Haven't we licked her twice and
                        can't we lick her agin? Lick her? Yes: just as easy as a har can
                        slip down a fresh peeled saplin. Some skeery folks talk about the navy of 
                            England
                        ; but who cares for the navy? Others say that she is the Mistress of the ocean. Supposin’ she is—ain't we the
                            Master of it.? Can't we cut a canal from the 
                            Mississippi
                         to the Mammoth Cave of 
                            Kentucky
                        ; turn all the water into it, and dry up the damned ocean in three weeks: What,
                        then, would be the navy? It would be no whar! There never would haw
                        been any Atlantic Ocean if it hadn't been for the 
                            Mississippi
                        , nor never will be after. we've turned the waters of that big drink into
                        the Mammoth Cave. When that's done, you'll see all their steam ships and their
                        sail ships they spluge so much about lyin’ high and dry, flounderin’ like
                        so many turkles left ashore at low tide. That's the way we'll fix em. Who's afeered!
                        54
               
                
            Nobody was "afeered" much on the frontier because there was always a civilian army
                    ready to rush into arms on short notice. The citizen hero was proud of his services partly because
                    it was in behalf of his country's interest, and partly because it gave him a thing of
                    dignity which he prized very highly—a title. Any man who could organize a militia company
                    could just about select his title, and the bigger the company the higher his title had to be in
                    order to make room for the men under him. As one contemporary said "the militia
                    leader's title was never less than a colonel, and sometimes brigadier general." A
                    Down East nutmeg explained his conversation with a fellow steamboat passenger from 
                        Arkansas
                    : 
                        "Stranger," says he to me, "what is your
                            name?" "Yankee Doodle, sir," says I.
                            "What's yourn." "Wal, that's a grand
                            name," says he, "but you must have a title."
                            "I've bin a corporal," says I. "That ain't high
                            enuf," says he. "When titles don't cost nothing, you should chuse
                            a good wun. Everybody out West is either Judge or Colonel or General. I am General Smith of
                            the 
                                Arkansas
                             Melisha," says he, "and you must be Colonel Doodle of the
                            first 
                                New Hampshire
                             brigade," says he. "Nobody thinks anything of anybody that
                            ain't as fur on as major out thar," he says.54
                  
                    
            
            The militia muster was an important institution. Not 
                  
                     54 "The Country Perfectly Safe," ibid., XIV (April 13, 1844), 81.
                  
                     55 "Love of Titles in America," ibid., XIV (July 27, 1844), 261.
               
                     that it was of any great military importance, but it was an
                    excuse for a big social day. A writer who had seen the valiant guard line weave to and fro with the
                    advance and recession of shade, said 
                        The "citizen-soldier" knew no more about "dressing the
                            line," than about dressing himself, and the front of his company presented as many
                            inequalities as a "worm-fence." Tall men and short mew— beaver
                            hats and raccoon skin caps—rusty firelocks and long cornstalks—stiff
                            brogaris and naked feet—composed the grand display. Thew were as many officers as
                            men, and each was continually commanding and instructing his neighbor, but never thinking of
                            himself. At the command "Right dress!" (when the officers par
                                excellence knew enough to deliver it) some looked right, others
                            left—some thrust their heads out before—some leaned back to get a
                            glimpse behind—- and the whole line waved like a streamer in the wind.
                            "Silence in the line!" produced a greater clamor than ever, for each
                            repeated the command to every other, sending the order along the ranks like a rolling fire,
                            and not unfrequently enforcing it with the push of a corn-stalk, or a vigorous elbow-hint.
                            When a movement was directed, the order, reached the men successively, by the same process
                            of repetition—so that while some files were walking slowly, and looking back to
                            beckon on their. lagging fellow-soldiers, others were forced to a quick run to regain their
                            places, and the scramble often continued many minutes after the word
                            "halt!" The longer the parade lasted, the worse was the drill; and after a
                            tedious day's "muster," each man hew less, if possible, of
                            military tactics, than he did in the morning56
                  
                     But certainly he knew more of politics, crops, the stimulating effect of liquor and
                    community gossip than when he arrived. The fighting of his army would take care of itself when the
                    time came.
            The backwoodsman is gone, but behind him he has left a colorful folk history. He would swell with
                    pride if he could only get a glimpse of the shelves of rare books which have been written about him,
                    and it would indeed inflate his ego if he could see the anthologies of his stories, and the
                    dictionaries and magazines which contain his colorful words had phrases. Looking back on the
                    American backwoods from a modem perspective it is easy to discern that the coarseness and rugged
                    folkways applied most often to those people who were nearest the outer fringe of settlement. One
                    author's description of a region did not apply to the same people twenty years later. When
                    Christian Schultz wrote of 
                  
                     56 McConnel, Western Characters or Types of Border Life
                                in the western States. 364–365.
               
                     the backwoods in his Travels on an Inland
                    Voyage in 1810 he was unable to foresee the changes which would occur by the time Morris
                    Birkbeck published his famous Notes on A Journey in America in 1818. The frontier
                    moved like a carpet of intricate design which was being unrolled in the sun, and every detail of the
                    pattern presented a rapidly changing color effect as the unfolding process gained momentum.
            Fortunately for the backwoodsman, newspapers and periodicals opened their columns to him to tell his
                    own wild yarns before he passed off the stage. In the first half of the nineteenth century the
                    adventures of the frontiersmen constituted an inexhaustible source of good folk-interest material
                    for the newspaper and periodical readers. Newspapers such as the 
                        New Orleans
                     delta, and Picayune, the 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               , commonwealth, the 
                        St. Louis
                    
                    Reveille, the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Sun, and the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Journal were hospitable to the storyteller who presented his material in the
                    dialect of the backwoods. in 
                        New York
                    , William T. Porter. began the publication, in the thirties, of a generous medium for
                    the dissemination of the old yarns and tales in his famous Spirit of the Times.
                    Its columns were filled with a rich vein of material reminiscent of the days of restless expansion
                    when the American was still feeling his way across the continent in the face of grave danger and
                    uncertainty. He moved westward freed of the deterrent forces of urban politics and society. He put
                    the democratic process to an acid test in his circumstantial interpretation and application of
                    constitutional government.57
            
            Nowhere else on the globe could so many impracticable theorists and fussy busybodies have made their
                    way across the country, depending upon the hospitality of the people, and been so well received. The
                    Englishman who complained 
                  
                     57 A general summary of this sentiment is to he found in the
                            observations of C. H. Jenkins, "Old Times and New, Down East," The Spirit of the Times, XVI (October 18, 1846), 393. "The
                            West," wrote Jenkins, "may well boast of the rapid strides it, has made
                            within the last half century; taking, with its seven league boots, only about three steps,
                            from a deep and solitary wilderness—with nothing to disturb its ancient
                            magnificent repose, save the war cry of the Indian, the growl of the bear, the yell of the
                            panther, or the whoop of the owl— to a beautiful and blooming paradise, filled
                            with the sweet Founds and profitable bustle which are the treble and base of domestic
                            prosperity, thrift, and comfort, our West is a great country aid there are big and generous
                            hearts and open hands there."
               
                     of rudeness and hardship on the American frontier seldom if ever
                    stopped to think what fate he might have suffered in his own country had he relied upon the cottages
                    of laborers for cover, and upon their meager pantries and cribs to sustain man and horse. Had he
                    done so the contrast might have been startling indeed, and entirely in the American
                    backwoodsman's favor. That the frontiersman made rapid adaptations is one of the
                    American's major accomplishments. He showed his noblest spirit in his hunts, chases, fish
                    fries, barn dances, corn huskings, house raisings and warmings, weddings, infairs, quiltings, and in
                    scores of other matters of neighborly concern. All of these lent interest to the
                    backwoodsman's peaceful hours.
            Not all the popular pictures of the backwoodsman at home portray him as a crude bumpkin making either
                    a comical spectacle or a menace of himself before a smug and more sophisticated public. In the
                    background of even the most critical accounts is the realization that on the American frontier there
                    was a sound backlog of competence and self-assurance which in the end was a basis for a highly
                    stabilized society. Rude though the isolated people of the backwoods were they had the ability to
                    lower themselves gracefully to the common incident, or to rise with certainty to moments of
                    greatness and sincere generosity. Aid to a neighbor in trouble was a moral obligation, and vengeance
                    to a foe was ever a pressing necessity. Rising and falling as they did in those tedious years when
                    they were adapting themselves to new social and political mores, the backwoodsmen were ever
                    conscious not of the days which were, but of those which were to come. Judging harshly of the law at
                    times, and always warping the classic principles of organized government to suit their immediate
                    needs, but never insensitive of the broader objectives of their political institutions. Such were
                    the sturdy backwoodsmen who are worthy of a place in the colorful annals of American history, and in
                    the high esteem of his a newer and even more uncertain age.
         
         
         
            Some Characteristics of German Immigrants In 
                        Dubois County
                    , Indiana
            ELFRIEDA LANG
            
            Dr. Ernst Engel, a prominent German statistician, divided the economic life of a man into three
                    periods, two of which are unproductive and one productive. The first or juvenile period continues
                    until the fifteenth year and includes the raising and education of an individual. This is not only
                    an unproductive time, but also the cause of considerable outlay of money. The second or labor
                    period, ranging from fifteen to sixty-five years, is the productive time of life. The third or aged
                    period is unproductive, and the individual is dependent upon his savings or upon the labor of
                        others.1
            
            Many of the Germans who migrated to America were young active men between twenty and thirty years of
                        age.2 Most of the immigrants who came to 
                        Dubois County
                    , Indiana, were young people between the ages of twenty-one and forty. The average age
                    was twenty-eight. They were, therefore, in the productive years or the prime of life, ready to enter
                    into various pursuits.3
            
            This was in contrast with the ages of the native-born sons and daughters of Indiana in 1850 in 
                        Dubois County
                    . Forty-eight per cent of the native-born were in the unproductive periods. All but one
                    per cent of these were in the first or juvenile period, which was also the most expensive period.4 The approximate cost of raising an American farmer or unskilled laborer for
                    the first fifteen years was one hundred talers5 per year, while in 
                        Germany
                     the approximate cost of bringing up a manual laborer was fifty talers per year.6
            
            
               
                  1 Friedrich Kapp, Immigration and the Commissioners of
                            Emigration of the State of 
                                New York
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1870), 144.
               
                  2
                        Niles’ Weekly Register (
                     Baltimore, Maryland
                  ,
                        1811–1837), LVIII (April 25, 1840), 111.
               
                  3 The age of immigrants from 1853 to 1910 was as follows:
                        20–30, 384; 31–40, 186; 41–50, 85; 51–60, 51;
                        61–70, 23; over 70, 6. Naturalization Record of Intention, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana, 1853–1869 and 1869–1910. (Only the head of the
                        family is listed in the record.)
               
                  4 Original Returns of the Seventh Census, 1850, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana (microfilm in the Indiana University Library, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana).
               
                  5 A large silver coin issued by various German states. These varied but
                        slightly from one dollar in value. In 
                            Germany
                         in 1873 the old taler was made legal tender at three marks (71.4 cents).
               
                  6 Kapp, Immigration, and the Commissioners of Emigration of
                            the State of 
                                New York
                            
                  , 146.
            
            
            
               AGE GROUPS
               Original Census Returns, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana
            
            
            The Germans in 1860 constituted about 25 per cent of the total population of the county, of which 21
                    per cent were in the second or labor period, which included the most productive years. For. the same
                    year the native-born population of 48 per cent again came into the unproductive periods.7 The graphs made on the basis of the Original Census Returns may make the story
                    somewhat more comprehensible.
            A high percentage of the Germans who emigrated to the 
                        United States
                     were single.
            
               EMIGRANTS TO THE UNITED STATES8
               
               
                  
                  
                  Single
                  Married
                  Widows & divorcees
               
               
                  
                  1878
                  76.71
                  21.18
                  2.11
               
               
                  
                  1879
                  77.31
                  20.92
                  1.77
               
               
                  
                  1880
                  76.37
                  21.50
                  2.13
               
               
                  
                  1881
                  77.01
                  20.88
                  2.11
               
               
                  
                  1882
                  79.68
                  17.86
                  1.46
               
               
                  Average
                  1878–1882
                  77.51
                  20.46
                  2.0:2
               
            
            Although less than 25 per cent were married, 
                        Germany
                     became sufficiently conscious of the fact that families were migrating to make an
                    attempt to found a German colony to which these emigrants might be directed. Many of the Germans
                    formed the habit of remaining together, and in some cases dispossessed whole townships and almost
                    whole counties of native American farmers.9
            
            A large number of the Germans who settled in 
                        Dubois County
                     before 1861 came as families, and with the appearance of these families a noticeable
                    improvement in living conditions took place. From the marriage records, it was also obvious that
                    almost all the Germans who came to 
                        Dubois County
                     after 1881 were married.10
            
            
               
                  7 Original Returns of the Eighth Census, 1860, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana (microfilm in the Indiana University Library, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana).
               
                  8 "Emigration and Immigration, Reports of the Consular Officers
                        of the 
                            United States
                        ," in the House Executive Documents, 49) Cong., 2 Sess.,
                        no. 157 (serial no. 2483), 201.
               
                  9 Frederick J. Turner, "German Immigration into the 
                            United States
                        ," 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Record Herald, September 4, 1901; Edith Abbott, Historical
                            Aspects of the Immigration problem (
                            Chicago
                        , 1926), 271.
               
                  10 Albert Kleber, Ferdinand, Indiana,
                        1840–1940 (St. Meinrad, Indiana, 1940), 29; Albert Kleber, 
                     
                                St. Joseph
                             Pariah (St. Meinrad, Indiana, 1937), 11, 13; George K. Wilson, History of 
                                Dubois County
                            
                   (
                            Jasper
                        , Indiana, 1910), 131; Record of Returns of Marriages, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            There were 216 German families living in 
                        Dubois County
                     in 1850 who had one or more children who had been born in 
                        Germany
                    , likewise in 1860 there were 189 families who had one or more children who had been
                    born in 
                        Germany
                    . There may have been other families, but because they had no children there is no way
                    of ascertaining whether they were married in 
                        Germany
                     or in the United Slates. Some young people married shortly after their arrival in the 
                        United States
                     and then migrated to 
                        Dubois County
                    .11
            
            The general impression of many people has been that German families were much larger than native-born
                    families. There were in 
                        Dubois County
                     474 German families in 1850, that is, families in which both parents were born in 
                        Germany
                    ; and 486 native-born families, with both parents born in the 
                        United States
                    .12 The table which follows indicates that the families of
                    native-born parents were larger than those of parents born in 
                        Germany
                    .
            
               NUMBER OF CHILDREN PER FAMILY IN 185013
               
               
                   
                  Germans
                  Native
               
               
                  No. of Children
                  Average Age of Parents
                  % of Families
                  Average Age of Parents
                  
                     % of Families
               
               
                   
                  M
                  F
                   
                  M
                  F
                  
               
               
                  None
                  38.68
                  35.72
                  9.92
                  33.08
                  28.22
                  12.14
               
               
                  1
                  40.84
                  37.47
                  13.72
                  34.55
                  30.35
                  11.94
               
               
                  2
                  41.88
                  37.38
                  20.89
                  36.13
                  29.55
                  14.20
               
               
                  3
                  40.97
                  37.23
                  18.99
                  38.97
                  34.56
                  13.99
               
               
                  4
                  41.76
                  36.25
                  14.14
                  38.19
                  34.19
                  11.73
               
               
                  5
                  44.34
                  39.34
                  11.39
                  40.44
                  35.82
                  10.70
               
               
                  6
                  45.80
                  38.71
                  6.33
                  43.81
                  38.48
                  11.11
               
               
                  7
                  43.72
                  41.27
                  2.32
                  41.53
                  40.81
                  6.58
               
               
                  8
                  50.43
                  39.57
                  1.48
                  47.68
                  40.72
                  4.53
               
               
                  9
                  39
                  38
                  .21
                  35.83
                  31
                  1.23
               
               
                  10
                  
                  
                  
                  49.40
                  42.20
                  1.03
               
               
                  11
                  50
                  46
                  .21
                  49
                  44.50
                  .41
               
               
                  12
                  
                  
                  
                  49.50
                  42
                  .41
               
            
            
               
                  11 Original Returns of the Seventh Census, 1850, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana; Original Returns of the Eighth Census, 1860, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana; Goodspeed Brothers & Company, History of 
                                Pike
                             and Dubois Counties (
                            Chicago
                        , 1885), 751.
               
                  12 Original Returns of the Seventh Census, 1850, 
                            Dubois County
                         Indiana.
               
                  13
                        Ibid.
            
            
            This table also shows that the German parents were older. than the native-born parents. The
                    accompanying graphs indicate that the above statement holds true for both 1850 and 1860.
            
               NUMBER OF CHILDREN PER FAMILY AND AGE OF PARENTS Original Census Returns, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana
            
            
            
               NUMBER OF CHILDREN PER FAMILY IN 186014
               
               
                   
                  Germans
                  Native
               
               
                  No. of Children
                  Average Age of Parents
                  % of Families
                  Average Age of Parents
                  % of Families
               
               
                   
                  M
                  F
                   
                  M
                  F
                  
               
               
                  None
                  45.36
                  42.75
                  10.60
                  36.45
                  32.89
                  13.88
               
               
                  1
                  38.10
                  33.98
                  12.47
                  31.71
                  26.95
                  14.58
               
               
                  2
                  39.46
                  35.54
                  16.08
                  33.35
                  28.56
                  17.15
               
               
                  3
                  38.87
                  35.54
                  17.21
                  37.68
                  32.78
                  15.27
               
               
                  4
                  41.64
                  37.70
                  13.97
                  37.68
                  35.64
                  12.87
               
               
                  5
                  42.50
                  39.27
                  14.09
                  43.38
                  38.94
                  9.61
               
               
                  6
                  45.23
                  39.24
                  7.86
                  41.95
                  37.84
                  7.55
               
               
                  7
                  45.72
                  41.22
                  4.49
                  42.76
                  40.40
                  4.29
               
               
                  8
                  45.84
                  42
                  2.37
                  43.18
                  37.58
                  2.92
               
               
                  9
                  45.33
                  42.33
                  .37
                  44.55
                  41.11
                  1.55
               
               
                  10
                  50.33
                  43.66
                  .37
                  47.50
                  40.50
                  .31
               
               
                  11
                  56
                  47
                  .12
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  12
                   
                   
                   
                  36.50
                  43
                  .34
               
               
                  13
                   
                   
                   
                  44
                  38
                  .15
               
            
            Eight hundred and two German families were living in 
                        Dubois County
                     in 1860, in which both parents were born in 
                        Germany
                    , and 553 native-born families, with both parents born in the united States.15 The table for 1860 does not indicate as great a difference in the
                    classification of families according to the number of children (columns 4 and 7) as did that for
                    1850, but it must be noted that the German parents were again older than the native-born parents.
            As early as 1832, the Germans were regarded as desirable settlers and when compared with the English
                    paupers were. referred to as a "luscious peach" and the latter as a
                    "bitter Indian Turnip."16 The Germans were willing to work
                    hard and support themselves. They opened up waste areas, cut line farms out of the heavy timber, and
                    placed them under cultivation. One seldom heard of a German being in the poorhouse, and quite a few
                    died rich. The Germans who came to America during the nineteenth century were generally 
                  
                     14 Original Returns of the Eighth Census, 1860, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid.
                  
                     16
                            Niles’ Weekly Register, XLIII (September 15, 1832), 40.
               
                     not wealthy, therefore, they looked for areas not only where
                    considerable land was available but also where the price was low. The Germans took pride in keeping
                    the land in their possession; it was something permanent with them, not to be sold but to remain in
                    the family for a number of generations.17
            
            German statistical tables indicate that the amount of gold carried by emigrants during the first part
                    of the nineteenth century varied from $76 to $318 for each emigrant. Money,
                    however, was not the only property, but wearing apparel, tools, watches, books, and jewelry were
                    also brought along. It may be estimated that the personal property of the emigrant was one hundred
                    and fifty dollars. Approximately 4,297,980 immigrants arrived at the port of 
                        New York
                     from May 5, 1847, to January 1, 1870. The national wealth of the 
                        United States
                     for this period may be considered as increased by more than five billions of dollars
                    through immigration if the capital value of each male and female immigrant is estimated at fifteen
                    hundred dollars and seven hundred and fifty dollars respectively, with an average of
                    $1,125 for both. Some Germans from the districts near the Rhine might be considered
                    rather wealthy as they brought with them in 1832 when they emigrated between three and four thousand
                    pounds. One hundred thousand Germans in 1843 had made arrangements to emigrate to the 
                        United States
                     and together possessed approximately five million dollars.18
            
            Many of the German families, however, who settled in 
                        Dubois County
                     were very poor. A family of four in 1845 walked from 
                        Troy
                     to Ferdinand, a distance of eighteen miles, with whatever luggage they had. The average
                    settler around Ferdinand had scarcely enough money to buy land and the 
                  
                     17
                            Ibid.: 
                                    Illinois
                                 Journal, July 25, 1855, quoted in the Journal of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , 1908–), VII (1914–1915), 12; Edwin D.
                            Coe, "Reminiscences of a Pioneer in the Rock River Country," 
                                Wisconsin
                             Historical Society, Proceedings (
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     , 1874–), No. 55 (1908), 194; Albert R. Faust, The German Element in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (2. vols. 
                                Boston
                            , 1909), I, 435, 445; II, 30; Carl F. Wittke, We Who Built
                            America (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 209.
                  
                     18 Kapp, Immigration, and the, Commissioners of
                                Eemigrtion of the State of New’ York, 143–144,
                            146–147; Niles’ Weekly Register XLIII (November 24,
                            1832), 196–197; Niles’ National Register.
                                    (
                        Washington, Baltimore
                     , and 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1837–1849), LXIV (July 15, 1843), 320.
               
                     necessary tools. Bread and coffee were prepared from Indian
                    corn, which sold for twenty-five cents a bushel in 1841. When no corn was available acorns were
                    roasted and used for coffee.19 A letter written on January 8, 1842, gives some
                    insight into the poverty endured by some of the settlers.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        …. But you must pardon me for not having written for so long a time; I
                                    wanted to spare you. Should I have written lies? That is not my way, and
                                    I also did not want to write the truth, because I am convinced that good children
                                    can have no true joy in knowing that things are going badly with their parents. I
                                    should not have written even now, wert it not to calm you. My weakness and my money
                                    do not allow me to make a journey to 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     this winter, but as to summer, you know quite well that when the
                                    mainspring is missing the clock stands still, especially when one had to do all the
                                    cultivating of the soil with the hoe. Rut on New Year's day I wrote to Eva
                                    at 
                                        Louisville
                                    , where she has employment since August 24, to visit you by the middle
                                    of March. By that time she will surely have earned several dollars to clothe herself
                                    again and to send us a few, and if perhaps you also have obtained a few dollars
                                    through the sale of instruments, we shall after all procure a cow. Eva has more
                                    time, money, and opportunity from where she is, and, if she receives the letter, she
                                    will be able to tell you how we fared last spring and summer. But as to the said
                                    that you, my dear son-in-law, thought of sending us, I must decline that because I
                                    know from experience that here debts are not paid off as easily as in Europe, and
                                    the few clods of earth that I still possess I should like to leave free of debt to
                                    my children, except it were a small debt that I could pay back to you during the
                                    first year of your arrival here. —Eva has had to work hard with us this
                                    half year; she was very industrious, and we could have had need of her very much
                                    during the whole year, especially since mother is getting ever older and weaker; but
                                    necessity knows no law. Her clothes tore from burning of brushwood and from all
                                    other sorts of man's work that she had to do. Such a woman ought for week
                                    days to have cloth that is like our German so-called Petermann;
                                    but, because I could not buy her any, I had to let her hire herself out
                                    …. We have for 21/2 months lived on alms that good
                                    people have handed us. Meat is cheap here this year, a hundred pourids of pork at
                                    $2.— whoever has the money.20
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Another family left 
                        Germany
                     in 1834 and came as far as 
                        Cincinnati
                     where the father left his family and came to 
                        Dubois County
                     to purchase land, making the entire trip there and back on foot. A man who settled near 
                        Huntingburg
                     came to America in 1831, as a poor lad, fourteen years of age, with only fifty cents in
                    his pocket. Another German 
                  
                     19 Kleber, Ferdinand, 30, 60–61.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 62–63.
               
                     came to this region in 1862 who was almost as poor as far as
                    material possessions were concerned.21 Many other cases might be cited
                    illustrating the meager financial resources of early German settlers in 
                        Dubois County
                    .
            The Germans were willing to hire themselves out but were seldom content to serve for wages,
                    preferring to be paid in land or produce, thus becoming partners instead of servants of their
                    employers. A story has been related by a traveler that one day as he was traveling through 
                        Texas
                     a German mechanic met him. He had heard of a German settlement in the mountains that
                    was without a blacksmith so he set out to offer his services in exchange for a plot of ground where
                    he might produce some food for his family. The Germans were, moreover, honest, patient, industrious,
                    persevering, and very thrifty, adding dollar to dollar, and within less than fifty years the German
                    pioneers of 
                        Dubois County
                     achieved an economic status that occupied the middle ground between poverty and
                        wealth.22
            
            The German preferred to settle in the forest because it served as a protection against storms, and
                    because of his economical habits he saw that the forest conferred benefits so far as the necessary
                    fuel, timber, bedding, and forage were concerned, and then too, he cherished them for sentimental
                    reasons. Ferdinand in 
                        Dubois County
                     was founded in a primeval forest, and one can readily see that the Germans must have
                    felt at home there. The German pioneer brought his family to settle down in the heart of the
                    wilderness and remain, whereas some of the American pioneers brought their horse, ox, cow, dog, gun,
                    and family to remain only long enough to be able to sell his farm at a small profit. The Germans in
                    certain districts of 
                        Dubois County
                     gradually crowded out the American afflicted with the wanderlust.
                        
                  
                     21 Goodspeed, History of 
                                    Pike
                                 and Dubois Counties, 606, 586; 
                                Huntingburg
                            , Indiana, Signal, August, 28, 1879.
                  
                     22 Abbott, Historical Aspects of the Immigration
                            Problem, 275; Frederick L. Olmstead, A Journey Through 
                                    Texas
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1857), 212; Liles’ Weekly Register, XLIV (June 8,
                            1833), 233; Wittke, We Who Built America, 187; J. J. Lalor, "The
                            Germans in the West," Atlantic Monthly (
                                Boston
                            , 1857–), XXXII (1878), 463; Otto L. Schmidt: "The 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley in 1816, Through an Englishman's Diary, The 
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914–), XIV (1927), 142; Kate Everest Levi, "Geographical
                            Origin of German Immigration to 
                                Wisconsin
                            ," 
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Historical Collections (
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     ,
                            1854–), XIV (1908), 352; George M. Stephenson, A History of American
                                Immigration (
                                Boston
                            , 1926), 51; Kleber, Ferdinand, 66.
               
                     The Germans seemed to know how to get ahead. When they were
                    given an ax in the calloused hand, they soon produced results.23
            
            Henry Clay in his speech delivered in the Senate of the 
                        United States
                     on February 2, 3, and 6, 1832, in defense of the American system against the British
                    Colonial system, had this to say about the Germans: 
                        There are some foreigners who always remain exotics, and never become naturalized in our
                            country; whilst, happily, there are many others who readily attach themselves to our
                            principles and our institutions. The honest, patient, and industrious German, readily unites
                            with our people, establishes himself upon some of our fat land, fills liis capacious barn,
                            and enjoys in tranquility, the abundant fruits which his diligence gathers around him,
                            always ready to fly to the standard of his adopted country, or of its laws, when called by
                            the duties of patriotism.24
                  
                    
            
            Several county officials who were interviewed claimed that Colonel Jacob Geiger, founder of 
                        Huntingburg
                    , was aware of the thrifty Germans and 
                        Huntingburg
                     was platted in 1837 for their benefit.25 The larger lots were
                    provided so that there might be sufficient space for gardens. Since the plat is rather unique, a
                    copy of it has been reproduced.
            In order to form an estimate of the wealth of the inhabitants of 
                        Dubois County
                    , the real estate valuation as given in 1850 in the Original Census Returns was used.
                    The total valuation for the county in 1850 was $402,176 of which $225,816 was
                    credited to native-born inhabitants, $172,610 to Germans, and $3,750 to
                    inhabitants born in other foreign countries. On a percentage basis, 56.15 per cent was allotted to
                    native-born inhabitants, 42.92 per cent to Germans, and .93 per cent to other foreigners. The
                    Germans constituted 
                  
                     23 Joseph Schafer, "The Yanhee and the Teuton in 
                                Wisconsin
                            ," The 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Magazine of History (
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     ,
                            1917–), VI (1922–1923), 133; Faust, The German Element in
                                the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , II,. 57; Kleber, Ferdinand, 28, 16; Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 102; William G. Bek, "The Followers of Duden," 
                        
                                    Missouri
                                 Historical Review (
                                Columbia
                            . 
                                Missouri
                            . 1906–). XV (1921). 663: "Der Deutsche als Pionikr der
                            Welt," Der Deutsche Pionier (18 vols., 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1869–1887). II (1870). 43.
                  
                     24
                            Niles’ Weekly Register, XLII (March 3, 1832), 2–16,
                            see 6.
                  
                     25 Before Colonel Geiger purchased this section of land, he and other
                            gentlemen from 
                                Kentucky
                             had frequently hunted here and in remembrance of these expeditions he named the
                            town. Goodspeed, History of 
                                    Pike
                                 and Dubois Counties, 547. In the early records an
                            "h" was added after the final "g."
                            Plat Book, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana, I, 39; II, 9.
               
                     about 25 per cent of the entire population of the county. The
                    total valuation in 1860 was placed at $2,131,904 of which $1,140,725 was in
                    the hands of Germans, $917,688 credited to native-born inhabitants, and
                    $73,491 listed for other foreigners. According to percentages, 53.51 per cent was
                    allotted to Germans, 42.04 per cent to native-born inhabitants, and 3.45 per cent to other
                    foreigners. Again in 1860 the Germans constituted approximately 25 per cent of the entire population
                    of the county. At the time of the 1850 census the real estate of the native-born inhabitants had
                    13.23 per cent higher valuation than that of the Germans. By the Lime of the 1860 census, however,
                    the real estate valuation of the Germans was 10.47 per cent higher than that of the native-born
                    inhabitants. It has already been stated that many 
                  PLAT OF HUNTINOBURG Plat Book.
                  
                     
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana, I, 39, II, 9.
               
                     of the early German settlers were very poor. It may, therefore,
                    be assumed that a number of years of hard work brought results since in 1860 the total real estate
                    valuation of the Germans in 
                        Dubois County
                     was over fifty per cent of the total. Many of the Germans bought small tracts of land
                    (forty acres) and gradually added to their possessions. A man who did not have the cash to pay for
                    the land which he desired to purchase gave notes. The rate of interest in 
                        Dubois County
                     in 1840 was 10 per cent.26
            
            A considerable number of the Germans who emigrated to America the latter half of the nineteenth
                    century were farmers. They were attracted by cheap public and railroad lands, and later by free
                    homesteads; they became pioneer farmers. They brought with them less of the militant spirit and more
                    of the thrifty, balanced, agricultural life. It was their thrift, self-reliance, and intensive
                    agriculture that made them model farmers in America. Some of the American farmers did not have the
                    love for home, such as was to be found among the Germans, who took their families with them in
                    pursuit of simple pleasures. The former was always borrowing either money, tools, or provisions, but
                    the German farmer relied upon his own resources. When he erected a few buildings, some of his
                    American neighbors accused him of building a town. It is true that buildings for his livestock and
                    produce at times were far more pretentious than his humble dwelling. The day laborers and peasants
                    whose demands were simple and who were used to hard work, had no difficulty in adjusting themselves
                    to the conditions in the New World; the others, however, made no progress and in time many
                        succumbed.27
            
            
               
                  26 Original Returns of the Seventh Census, 1850, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana; Original Returns, of the Eighth Census, 1860, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana; (It was impossible to read some of the figures for 1860, but the
                        percentages are fairly accurate.); Tract Book, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana; Deed Record No. 1, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana, 364.
               
                  27 Stephenson, A History of American Immigration, 43; 
                            Huntingburg
                        , Indiana, Signal, June 19, 1879; Wittke, Me Who
                            Built America, 188; Frederick J. Turner, The limited States,
                            1830–1850 (
                            New York
                        , 1935), 19; John R. Commons, Races and Immigrants in America (
                            New York
                        , 1907), 133; Bek, "The Followers of Duden," 
                     
                                Missouri
                             Historical Review, XV, 663–666; Faust, The German
                            Element in the 
                                United States
                            
                  , II, 472; William H. Dawson, The Evolution of Modem 
                                Germany
                            
                   (
                            London
                        , 1908), 152–153; Abbott, Historical Aspects of the
                            Immigration Problem, 272; Friedrich Munch, "Die drei Perioden der neueren
                        deutschen Auswanderung nach Nordamerika," Der Dentsche Pionier, I
                        (1869), 244.
            
            
            A number of German farmers in the West were "Latin farmers," who were more familiar
                    with Virgil than guiding a plow, and some Germans who worked on railroads and in shops knew Homer in
                    the original. These farmers encountered difficulties with the American plow which required the
                    lifting of the handles, whereas the German plow which rested on wheels was forced into the ground by
                    pressing on the handles. When the harvesting of the corn was undertaken, the hired man took his
                    knife used for pruning trees. This required constant bending of the back and was a slow process
                    since only enough stalks could be cut to set up two shocks before nightfall. One family who had two
                    swords which had been brought from 
                        Germany
                     to serve as a defense against the Indians and animals of the forest were put to use.
                    One of these swords had been used against 
                        France
                     in 1813 and now became a useful tool on the American frontier. Some of the German
                    pioneer farmers also brought hand sickles and scythes with which to harvest the small grain. Later,
                    they used the heavy wheat cradle, but this practically exhausted them. The threshing was done with
                    flails on an improvised floor, and later the grain was tramped out by horses. Of the "Latin
                    farmers" who lived in 
                        Missouri
                     one after the other went to ruin, but the day laborers prospered and were happy in the
                    new homeland.28 No doubt, the citybred folk from 
                        Germany
                    , had been convinced that the American ax was more difficult to wield than the pen, and
                    the plow and manure fork were stupid tools. It may be assumed that German farmers in other areas
                    encountered similar experiences.
            As a group, however, the Germans were considered successful farmers because they looked for good
                    land, and those who had money frequently displaced native-born settlers. Their methods played no
                    small part in their success. They were thorough and patient; the land was carefully cleared of
                    stumps and stones, and they endeavored to produce the largest possible yield per acre. Because
                    permanent possession was foremost in their mind, they believed in the rotation of crops, and were
                    careful not to exhaust the soil. They were economical. They saved on wood by using stoves instead of
                        
                  
                     28 Wittke, We Who Built America, 189; Friedrich
                            Münch, "Sonst und jetzt," (‘et haec meninisse
                            juvabit’), Der Deutsche Pionier, IV (1872),
                        229–231.
               
                     fireplaces, and in constructing fences built in a manner which
                    required the least wood. Their diet was simple, the furniture plain but substantial, and clothing
                    was made of material which wore well. The livestock was not permitted to run wild; in the winter the
                    animals were kept in stables, and never over worked at any time. Fences, buildings, and the garden,
                    as well as agricultural implements were kept in good repair.29 Travelers were
                    impressed by German settlements and by the characteristics mentioned above. They were easily able to
                    distinguish the German farms from those of the native Americans. "The land better
                    cultivated, the enclosures better formed, prove clearly it is a German settlement. With them
                    everything announces ease, the fruit of their assiduity to labour."30
            
            The German farmer's labor was more productive because he was assisted by his wife and
                    children. In his estimation a woman was also capable of working in the field, and hired labor should
                    be used only when the grain was to be harvested. Lalor makes the statement that the German never
                    sought in his wife an intellectual companion. If he was a philosopher, the less his wife knew of
                    syllogisms the happier he was. It may be assumed that because the German relied upon his family for
                    work in the fields, he did not approve of slavery, and in some states helped turn the tide of
                    sentiment in the direction of the cause of the Union.31
            
            German business enterprises began on a small scale and developed gradually. They used no short cuts,
                    but climbed the ladder step by step. The German was hardheaded and not easily taken off his feet. He
                    never suffered from the speculation fever. He had a tendency to be pessimistic 
                  
                     29 Faust, The German Element in the 
                                    United States
                                , II, 29.
                  
                     30 Francois A. Michaux, "Travels to the West of the Alleghany
                            Mountains … 1802," in Reuben G. Thwaites (ed.), Early
                                Western Travels, 1748–1846 (32 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1904–1907), III (1904), 109–306, see 152.
                  
                     31 Abbott, Historical Aspects of the Immigration
                            Problem, 272; Schmidt, "The 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley in 1816 …" The Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review, XIV, 143; Lalor, "The Germans in the West,".
                                Atlantic Monthly, XXXII, 463; Faust, The German Element
                                in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , II, 30, 126–130; I, 446; Edward A. Ross,
                                The Old World in the New (New Yolk, 1914), 52–53; Olmstead,
                                A Journey Through 
                                    Texas
                                
                     , 142; Gustav Korner, Das Deutsche Element in den
                                Vereinigten Staatenron Nordamerika, 1818–1848 (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1880), 323; Herman E. von Holst, The Constitutional
                                and Political History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     . (8 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1881–1892), IV, (1885), 426–429; Albert J. Beveridge,
                                America Lincoli, 1809–1858 (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1928), II, 228.
               
                     toward everything that could not be measured in dollars and
                    cents. At times he was more successful than his competitors because the price of his goods was
                    cheaper, the goods were of a more serviceable character, and he used more efficient means of
                    attracting customers. The Germans engaged 
                  OCCUPATIONS
                  Original Census Returns, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana
               
                     in various occupations and in large sections of the 
                        United States
                     furnished blacksmiths, butchers, carpenters, coopers, saddlers, shoemakers, and
                    tailors. Regardless of what type of occupation the German engaged in, he walked well, worked well,
                    and looked well. The explanation for his tideness, orderly bearing, and smartness of carriage may be
                    attributed to moral rather than economic origin; these qualities resulted from training and not from
                    social conditions. As a rule, the home influences were such as to affect his aesthetic and cultural
                    sensibilities in a. favorable manner. orderliness and thrift stand out in the foreground.32
            
            Although most of the Germans who migrated to 
                        Dubois County
                     were farmers, a number of blacksmiths. carpenters, coopers, merchants, shoemakers,
                    saddlers, tailors, and wagonmakers also came.33 The accompanying graph showing
                    occupations in 
                        Dubois County
                     was prepared on the basis of the 1850 and 1860 Original Census Returns. It will be seen
                    that the Germans excelled in the highly skilled trades, whereas in the professions, such as teaching
                    and medicine, they occupied second place in relation to the native-born.
            The German farmers, skilled workmen, and tradesmen worked in a community that was changing from a
                    thinly settled frontier to a stable agricultural society. There were 27,543 acres of land in 
                        Dubois County
                     in improved farms in 1850 which figure had increased over one hundred per cent by 1860.
                    Over eleven hundred farms contained less than fifty acres and only 397 contained more than fifty
                    acres. There were no farms containing more than five hundred acres. Wheat, corn, oats, tobacco, and
                    potatoes were among the more important products produced.34
            
            In the early days poor boys in 
                        Dubois County
                     were usually turned over by the overseer of the poor to some farmer 
                  
                     32 Schafer, "The Yankee and the Teuton," The 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Magazine of History, VII, (1923–1924), 152; Ross, The Old World in the New, 64–65; Lalor, "The Germans
                            in the West," Atlantic Monthly, XXXII, 463; Wittke, We Who Built America, 208; Josiah Flynt, "The German and the
                            German-American," Atlantic Monthly, LXXVIII (1896) 664; Dawson,
                                The Evolution of Modern 
                                    Germany
                                
                     , 79, 152; Senate Reports, 54 Cong., 1 Sess., II, no.
                            290 (serial no. 3363), 4; Turner, "German Immigration into the 
                                United States
                            ," 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Record Herald, September 4, 1901; Kuno Francke, "The
                            Germans," in Henry Pratt Fairchild (ed.), Immigrant Backgrounds (
                                New York
                            , 1927), 42–57.
                  
                     33 Original Returns of the Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana; Original Returns of the Eighth Census, 1860, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     34
                     Seventh Census of the United Staffs. 1850,
                            Statistics, Table XI, 790; Eighth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1860, Statistics of Agriculture, II, 38–41; 198.
               
                     to learn farming. As a rule, the agreements were in writing, and
                    they frequently stipulated that the apprentice was to serve and obey his master until he had reached
                    the age of twenty-one. At times, the boy also contracted not to get married, nor to play cards,
                    dice, or other unlawful games, or visit places where gambling was in vogue. In return for his
                    services, he was to be clothed, fed, taught the occupation of farming, taught to read, write, and
                    cipher, and sometimes got a horse well broke for use. When the apprentice reached the age of
                    twenty-one the master was to give him two suits, one of which was to be a pair of 
                        Kentucky
                     jeans, each to he worth twenty-five dollars.35
            
            In 
                        Dubois County
                    , the blacksmith ranked next to the farmer in importance. He made all of his own tools,
                    except the bellows, anvil, vise, and files. Only bar iron36 was available, and
                    it was necessary to go to 
                        Louisville
                     to get it. The pioneer blacksmith made plows, rakes, corn hoes, grub hoes, hammers.
                    wedges, shovels, butcher knives, axes, sickles, locks, keys, and other useful tools for the pioneer.
                    Even the sheriff sometimes had to call on the blacksmith to weld the iron chain which joined the
                    handcuffs on prisoners. "Store" horseshoes were not known in 
                        Dubois County
                     before 1835. In those days practically all the forge work was paid for in trade, and
                    the blacksmith's home was always supplied with flour., bacon, pork, lard, vegetables in
                    season, apples, pumpkins, and other produce. That there was a demand for blacksmiths can be seen by
                    the fact that Jacob Geiger induced Eernhard Niehaus, a pioneer blacksmith, to come to 
                        Huntingburg
                     by giving him a town lot.37
            
            Since charcoal burning was common in pioneer days, the apprentice of the blacksmith was occasionally
                    called upon to perform this task. The charcoal pit was made by marking off a circular space which
                    measured from fifteen to twenty feet in diameter, and then cord wood was piled, on end, all over it;
                    openings for fires were left on each side of the large pile of wood, and the center was filled with
                    chips. The wood was banked in and the fire was started. For several days the pit required careful
                    watching. When the fire was about to break out, it was covered with earth and subdued. Sugar 
                  
                     35 A garment made of a twilled cotton cloth. Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 133.
                  
                     36 The cost was about seven cents a pound, and the smallest size
                            measured an inch or an inch and a half. Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 134.
                  
                     37 Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 134–135.
               
                     maple, beech, and wild cherry wood were used, but the latter
                    made the finest charcoal.38
            
            A merchant in 
                        Dubois County
                     during the early days sometimes used a wheelbarrow to transport his supplies from 
                        Troy
                     to Ferdinand. The merchant from 
                        Louisville
                     or any other city also had difficulties when he bought farm products from the
                    businessmen in Ferdinand. A 
                        Louisville
                     merchant in 1849 bought some beans from a storekeeper in Ferdinand, and since the
                    latter refused to take care of the packing and shipping, the 
                        Louisville
                     merchant found it necessary to spend some extra days in Ferdinand.39
            
            It may be assumed that the early German cabinetmakers, carpenters, brickmakers, and wagon-makers are
                    responsible for the furniture factories in 
                        Jasper
                    , the brickyard, furniture factory, and wagon works in 
                        Huntingburg
                    . There were twenty-seven manufacturing establishments in 
                        Dubois County
                     in 1860 employing thirty-eight men and no women, and the annual value of the products
                    was $40,747.40
            
            No matter how humble a German's occupation may have been, he tried to do his best. He knew
                    the force of the old proverb, "Arbeit macht das Leben suss."41
                    Edward Ross has pictured the German in a most fitting manner by these words: 
                        The German is lasting in his sympathies and his antipathies and leisurely in his mental
                            processes. It takes him long to make up his mind and longer to get an idea out of his head.
                            In his thinking he tries to grasp more things at a time than does the Celt. Not for him the
                            simple logic that proceeds from one to two outstanding factors in a situation and ignores
                            all the rest. He wants to be comprehensive and final where the Latin aims to be merely clear
                            and precise. It is this very complexity of thought that makes the German often silent, his
                            speech heavy or confused. But just this relish for details and this passion for thoroughness
                            make him a born investigator.42
                  
                    
            
            The Germans made a real contribution not only to 
                        Dubois County
                     but to America and in a few lines Frederick J. Turner has summed up their real value:
                    "They have infused into the American stock and society a conservatism and steady
                    persistence and solidity useful in moderating the nervous energy of the native
                        Americans."43
            
            
               
                  38
                        Ibid., 134.
               
                  39 Kleber, Ferdinand, 68; Josephine C. Goldmark, Pilgrims of ‘48 (
                     New
                            Haven, Connecticut
                  , 1930),
                        221.
               
                  40
                        Eighth Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1860, Statistics of Manufactures, III, 119.
               
                  41 Faust, The German Element in the 
                                United States
                            
                  , II, 470.
               
                  42 Ross, The Old World in the New, 65–66.
               
                  43 Turner, "German Immigration into the 
                            United States
                        ," 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Record Herald, September 4, 1901.
            
         
         
         
            Music In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1900–1944
            MARTHA F. BELLINGER
            
            Developments in music since nineteen hundred, which were based largely on the foundations previously
                    laid, involved notable and significant advances. The outstanding features of this period are the
                    establishment of the People's Concert Association and the People's Chorus, the
                    foundation of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch of the National Federation of Music Clubs, the expansion of the Matinee
                    Musicale, the rapid development of applied and theoretical music in the public schools, and the
                    founding of the Indiana State Symphony Orchestra.
            In the early years of the century a group of citizens headed by Edward B. Birge, Director of Music in
                    the Public Schools, conceiving the idea of offering good music, comparable to that of the May
                    festival days, on a non-profit system, and of making a bid for a larger audience, organized the
                    People's Concert Association. The sale of two or three thousand seats, at twenty five or
                    fifty cents each, would guarantee the engagement of fine artists, and at the same time afford
                    opportunity for the production of major com positions in which the local organizations would
                    participate. Mindful of financial hazards, the committee at first sought and obtained eighty
                    guarantors who promised to back the enterprise to the extent of ten dollars each, but as it turned
                    out, no guarantor was ever asked to pay. The creation of an audience—a very large
                    audience—was the crux of the problem, and it was solved iii a large measure by the fine
                    co-operation of the public school teaching staffs. Special publicity methods were indeed employed,
                    but when it became clear. that excellent programs could be heard for a sum within the reach of any
                    individual, even of whole families, the success of the undertaking was assured.
            The concerts were started with a relatively modest expense account on October, 30, 1905, with Karl
                    Schneider, 
                  
                     1 Facts have been gathered from a variety of sources, some of which
                            have been noted in the text. Personal interviews brought interesting events to light, and
                            questionnaires submitted to club and church officials were answered in many cases with
                            fullness and accuracy. Several of the more permanent organizations, such as the Matinee
                            Musicale, the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Maennerchor, and the Roberts Park Choral Union, put at my disposal their,
                            secretarial records and earlier historical sketches.
               
                     baritone, and Bruno Steindel, cellist, as soloists. Steindel was
                    first cellist of the 
                        Chicago
                     Symphony Orchestra, and Schneider was an accomplished singer and musician then living
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and teaching at the Metropolitan School of Music. During the season
                    1905–1906, there were five more performances by well-known artists, ending with the
                    appearance of the 
                        Chicago
                     Symphony Orchestra under Frederick Stock in three separate programs. In November, 1906,
                    the evening concert was preceded by a matinee for children, a course which was repeated often in
                    later years. Celebrated pianists such as Fannie 
                        Bloomfield
                     Zeisler, Germaine Schnitzer, Xaver Scharwenka, and Wilhelm Bachaus appeared on the
                    programs, as well as world famous singers, such as George Hamlin, Jomelli, Alice Nielsen. Louise
                    Homer, Evan Williams, and Emilio de Gogorza. The 
                        Chicago
                     Symphony Orchestra came for nine performances, the 
                        Minneapolis
                     Symphony Orchestra under Emil Oberhoffer for three, and the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Symphony Orchestra for two. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Symphony Orchestra under Alexander Ernestinoff appeared nineteen times. Liza Lehmann
                    came to conduct In a Persian Garden, and the children's
                    chorus rendered Benoit's cantata, Into the World
                    2
            
            During the years when the concerts were being given, Birge had organized a People's Chorus,
                    again drawing into the enterprise many members of the city school system, as well as the remnants of
                    the flagging choral unions of the earlier period. The first appearance of the People's
                    Chorus was on May 1, 1911, when they gave Mendelssohn's Hymn of Pmisc
                    under the baton of Birge. The success of the undertaking was complete, and rehearsals for a
                    Christmas rendition of The Messiah were immediately begun. The great oratorio was
                    given by the chorus and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Orchestra led by Birge on December 22, 1912, in the Murat Theater, with Hanna Wolff
                    Freeman at the organ. The soloists were Mrs. George R. Eckert, Esther Louise Houk, Wesley Howard,
                    and David Eaxter. This revival of Handel's work marked the first of a long series of
                    similar performances which ended only when Birge left the city in 1921, and since that time other
                    leaders have carried on the custom. 
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, October 29 and 30, 1905; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, News, October 25, 30, and 31, 1905, and November 9,
                            1906; much information was obtained from the programs of the People's Concert
                            Association.
               
                     Besides the annual rendition of The Messiah.
                    the chorus and orchestra gave The Swan and the Skylark, Elijah, Hiawatha's
                        Wedding Feast, Martin (in concert form), and The Creation. Many of these
                    performances were repeated at popular request, arid on many occasions the concerts were presented as
                    a gift to the city, without entrance charge. The last pres entation under Birge's baton was
                    in 1923, when he returned to the city to conduct the concert.3
            
            Thus for eighteen years 
                        Indianapolis
                     had a home-grown, self-supporting musical organization, both for vocal and instrumental
                    works, supplying the hest in musical entertainment. Even when expensive soloists were engaged,
                    prices for seats were kept low, within reach of the most modest citizen. The People's
                    Chorus assisted in benefit concerts for the Red Cross, for the Relief of Fatherless Children of 
                        France
                     and other causes, and took a major part in the Centennial celebration.4
            
            During the early years of this century, under the leadership of Franz Bellinger the Maennerchor gave
                    with precision and tonal beauty many interesting cantatas, such as Schumann's Paradies and the Peri. The Pilgrimage of the Rose, and The Swan and the
                        Skylark. At the annual Saengerfests the laurel wreath was many times awarded to the
                    Maennerchor. It was during Bellinger's directorship, (1897–1907), that the new
                    clubhouse was built and dedicated. Succeeding directors have been Rudolph Heyne, Karl Reckzeh, and
                    Clarence Ebert, who have maintained the noble traditions of the society.
            The Maennerchor moved into its own handsome building (now the Service Men's Center) at the
                    comer of 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     Streets in 1907. The new home was provided with a fine concert hall, rehearsal rooms, a
                    cafe, and assembly rooms for the ladies. For many years John P. Frenzel had been the "good
                    angel" of the society, and it was with his generous help and that of a few others, that the
                    larger and more beautiful building was made possible. With the death of Frenzel and the exigencies
                    of war, the new quarters were given up, and the society became affiliated with the Athenaeum, 
                  
                     3 Unpublished diary of Edward B. Birge, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, April 9 and 30, 1911, and December 22, 1912;
                            Programs of the People's Chorus.
                  
                     4 Programs of the People's Chorus.
               
                     of which it is now an integral part, though retaining its
                    original name.5
            
            Beginning about 1910 the Musikverein specialized in opera which they gave with marked success.
                    Excerpts from Carmen, Faust, Surnson and Delilah were given in concert form, then
                    light opera, The Mikado, Martha, and the Chimes of Normandy,
                    were performed complete in full costume. Latei. the orchestra was disbanded, owing to war
                    conditions. The Maennewchor, also faced with the difficulties of the times and obliged to abandon
                    its own clubhouse, then joined forces with the German House, whose name was changed to the
                        Athenaeum.6
            
            The Liederkranz, like the Maennerchor a German singing society, continued to carry on the tradition
                    of fine male chorus singing. Frederic Krull, at one time its director, was a prominent singer and
                    composer. he was born in the city, but received most of his musical training in Berlin, where his
                    uncle, Carl Voigt, was music director under. three emperors. Krull is riot only a singer of charm
                    aid distinction, but also a pianist, violinist, and composer. His best-known compositions are among
                    the thirty songs set to poems of James Whitcomb Riley. On many public occasions he has sung The Ruggedy Man, There Is Ever a Song Somewhere, and other selections. Madame
                    Louise Homer gave Little Orphant Annie as one of her numbers on the program in a
                    local recital and made it a Victor- record. Krull wrote a song entitled Youth's Aftermath, in 1910 for the Alumni Association of Shortridge High School
                    to words written by Myla Jo Closser.7
            
            The A Cappella Mendelssohn Choir was organized in 1916 by Perceval Owen with a membership of
                    seventy-five 
                  
                     5 The active membership in 1944 was 104, twenty-seven of whom were in
                            the armed forces. Otto Ehrgott and George Schmidt have sung with the society for more than
                            fifty years; and Otto Busching, Fred Pintzke, and Franz Binninger, president emeritus, for
                            almost the same length of time. The present officers are: President, Edward Mueller;
                            Vice-president, George Amt; Secretary, John Schlenk; Financial Secretary, Albert Nachtrieb;
                            Treasurer, William Noelke; Librarian, Maurice Pennicke. NinetiPth Anniversary
                                Program, 1944 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Maennerchor;
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, News, February 18, March 13 and 22, 1907; Corbin
                            Patrick, "Asides and Exit Lines," 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, March 11, 1944; Anton Scherter, "Our
                            Town Maennerchor," 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Times. May 12, 1944.
                  
                     6 Personal interview with Miss Antoinette Ernestinoff.
                  
                     7 Louise B. Fletcher, "Frederic Krull, Composer and
                            Singer.," 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, December 22, 1923.
               
                     women and fifty men. This society held together until 1923. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Community Chorus organized in 1920 attempted to carry on the work of the
                    People's Chorus. Meanwhile, glee clubs were springing up in the public schools and in the
                    conservatories. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Civic Choir, composed of members from thirty church choirs, came into being in 1936 and
                    continued the work. In the following year the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Symphonic Choir was organized by Elmer Steffen. The choir, which is entirely
                    self-supporting, numbered about two hundred voices in 1943.8
            
            Other organizations that contributed to the city's musical development during this period
                    were the 
                        Jordan
                    -
                        Butler
                     Philharmonic Choir started in 1941, with Joseph Lautner as conductor, and the Mallory
                    Singers. During the season of 1942–1943, the former presented more than fifty concert
                    programs. The Mallory Singers are led by Jane Johnson Burroughs. In addition to these two, Mrs.
                    James Ogden has gathered together a group of younger singers with whom she gives free concerts.
            The churches of 
                        Indianapolis
                     have maintained the rather exceptional standards of the middle years. The Roberts Park
                    Choir formed itself into the Roberts Park Choral Society in 1897, with Emil Wulschner as leader and
                    Mrs. Jennie Suf-friens as organist. Membership grew to 185, spreading out from the choir loft into
                    the gallery. Following Wulschner, who died in 1900, Edward Taylor occupied the post of director for
                    seven years, then Hugh McGibney, who held the post for twenty years. The console was moved to the
                    front of the church in 1915, and chimes were added. Mrs. Jane Johnson Burroughs followed McGibney,
                    then came Dale Young, Lucille Pritchard, and Frank Watkins, the present leader.
            The choir of the First Baptist Church, the oldest in the city, was for twenty-eight years under the
                    leadership of Perceval Owen, who died in 1942. The present director, George Newton, is a teacher of
                    voice. Besides Newton, the singers are Bernard DeVore, Lila Sprunger, and Mrs. Elizabeth Ward
                    Crowell. Special evenings of music are given each month, and the singers, like those of many other
                    churches, have taken part in the community renditions of the Handel and Haydn oratorios.9
            
            
               
                  8
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, News, October 9, 1926; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Star, May 21, 1939, and October 3, 1943.
               
                  9 Letter from George Newton, February 1, 1946.
            
            
            Elmer Steffen is the director of music for the Catholic diocese of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , instructor in church music for the Oratory of St. Philip Neri, and leader of the
                    Nurses’ Chorus of St. Vincent's Hospital. The Schola Cantorum of SS. Peter and
                    Paul Cathedral is under the direction of Steffen. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Symphonic Choir, working in close collaboration with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Symphony Orchestra, is also under his baton. He was closely associated with Owen in the
                    work of the Mendelssohn Choir of which he was also a director. Several well-known religious
                    compositions bear his name. For his work in the field of Catholic church music, he was honored by
                    Pope Pius XII by being elevated to the rank of papal knight of the Order of St. Gregory.10
            
            Willard E. Beck has been minister of music at the 
                        Broadway
                     Methodist Church since October, 1903, with a volunteer choir averaging fifty voices, a
                    junior choir of seventy-five voices, a high school choir of fifty voices, and a male chorus. The
                    choir has sung a large number of cantatas and oratorios, among them Handel's Messiah, The Evangel of the New World by Van Denman Thompson, has also provided benefit
                    concerts for welfare organizations in the city and in other parts of the state, and at special Good
                    Friday services has given The Seven Last Words.11
            
            Other churches supporting choirs or musicians of importance include the 
                        Irvington
                     Presbyterian Church, the North Methodist Church, Central Avenue Methodist Church, and
                    the Second Presbyterian Church. The 
                        Irvington
                     Presbyterian Church has a volunteer choir of twenty-four voices, with Charlotte Moore
                    as director. In this church also the 
                        Irvington
                     Community Chorus led by J. Russell Paxton in 1943 gave The
                        Messiah.12 At the North Methodist Church, J. Russell Paxton has been
                    musical director for seven years, with a fine record. Among some of the renditions are the Bach Christmas Oratorio, Rossini's Stabat Mater, a first
                    performance in 
                  
                     10
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, June 4, 1939; Personal interview with Elmer
                            A. Steffen. Gregory XVI founded the Order of St. Gregory the Great on September 1, 1831, to
                            reward the civil and military virtues of subjects of the Papal States. There are two main
                            divisions, civil and military.
                  
                     11 Letter from Willard E. Beck, February 1, 1946.
                  
                     12 The following soloists participated: Mrs. Thelma Grannis Springer,
                            Mrs. L. P. Kreiser, Charles 
                                Hamilton
                            , George Newton, and Mrs. Bernice Fee Mozingo at the organ.
               
                     the state of Dett's Ordering of
                    Moses, and The Messiah.13 At the Central Avenue Methodist
                    Church the choir of twenty voices was led from 1934 to 1944 by Ralph W. Wright, Director of Music in
                    the Public Schools.14 He has earned special honor and gratitude, not only from
                    the church, but from the entire community. In addition to the singers who have been mentioned, many
                    others have acquired considerable local fame.15
            
            According to the present constitution, the purpose of the Matinee Musicale is "to advance
                    the interests and raise the standards of Musical Art in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ." All active members are women musicians, representing every variety of
                        talent.16 The schedule of the club calls each year for twelve
                    "regular" programs, three artist recitals, seven organ recitals, and seven student
                    recitals. In addition to these programs, it arranges for concerts in the public schools, for the
                    Local Council of Women, for the Old Ladies’ Home, and for the John Herron Art Institute.
                    The club joined the Maennerchor and the Symphony Orchestra in 1943 in a performance of The Messiah. It has assisted in many benefit concerts, and it administers a scholarship
                        fund.17 The 1943–1944 season was a brilliant one, but not
                    exceptional. In addition to the regular programs, a three-star concert course 
                  
                     13 Personal interview with J. Russell Paxton.
                  
                     14 Letter from Ralph W. Wright, February 1, 1946.
                  
                     15 Among the women there are Mrs. James Lowrie, Mrs. Philip Goetz, Ida
                            Belle Sweeney, Lottie Adam Rappaport, Lilly Adam Wie-seke, Agnes Kimball, Josephine
                            Robinson, and Lena Lovejoy Howard. Among the men are Edward Bell, Julius Burkhardt, Emil
                            Steinhilber, Andrew Smith, Louis Dochez. Mrs. Goetz and Mrs. John P. Frenzel took solo parts
                            in many operas, oratorios, and cantatas. Mrs. Frank Edenharter, Mrs. Cecil Smith, and Hanna
                            Wolff Freeman have had honorable careers in the exacting position of accompanist.
                  
                     16 They are received into membership only upon examination, as
                            follows: Voice: an aria from an oratorio or opera, a song of the standard classical type, or
                            a modern ballad; piano: a Bach composition, a sonata movement, a composition of the modern
                            romantic school; strings: a movement from a sonata or concerto, an étude of
                            standard classical form, a short number. From the "Articles of the
                            Constitution," of the Matinee Musicale. 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Matinee Musicale Calendar, 1939–1940 (n.p., n.d.), 42.
                  
                     17 Report of Gertrude H. Cregor, June, 1944; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, December 12, 1943. The presiding officers are
                            as follows: Mrs. Alfred Baggs, Mrs. A. G. Cox, Mrs. A. B. Bates, Mrs. W. C. Lynn, Mrs. A. W.
                            Robertson, Adelaide Carman, Mrs. J. S. Jenckes, Mrs. Henry Schurmann, Mrs. Charles A.
                            Pfafflin, Mrs. Lafayette Page, Mrs. Hugh McGibney, Mrs. James Lowrie, and Lucille Wagner,
                            President in 1942.
               
                     was offered, with Marjorie Lawrence of the Metropolitan Opera,
                    Egon Petri, pianist, and Nan Merriman, soprano and 1943 winner of the Young Artist Award from the
                    National Federation of Music Clubs. The proceeds of another concert by Alfred Mirovitch, pianist,
                    were devoted to the Recreation Fund of Billings Hospital, Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ten programs were
                    given by active members, eight by student sections. Members of the active, professional, student,
                    and associate sections combined in giving excerpts from the Tschaikowsky opera, Eugene
                        Onegin in February, 1944.18
            
            At the beginning of the century, public school music was in the hands of Helen Place and Leila Parr,
                    who emphasized the making of music rather than the cold study of scales. Place gathered the grades
                    together in weekly singing sessions—an innovation at that time. She also edited and
                    published one of the earliest journals devoted to her profession. This journal, School
                        Music, was later absorbed by one of the larger publications. It was important in that it
                    opened a new approach to the subject, stressing the principle that technique and the study of scales
                    are only temporary means to enjoyment of the art.19
            
            Edward B. Birge was appointed Director of Music in 1901. Under his supervision the various systems of
                    teaching were harmonized, singing and playing were encouraged, and technical instruction inserted
                    whenever the children were ready for it. Both teachers and pupils responded to the treatment.
                    Already, in the late nineties, Charles Emmerich, Principal of the Manual Training High School, had
                    organized and conducted a school orchestra, and soon a similar group was established at Shortridge
                    High School. A concert was given by the combined orchestra and a chorus under Birge on May 29, 1903,
                    with eleven numbers of excellent quality, including the Gruenwald Suite de Ballet,
                    the Damascus Triumphal March from the oratorio Naaman with
                    orchestration by Birge, Meyerbeer's Cavatina from Robert le
                        Diable, and the Lust spiel Overture by Kela Bela.20
                    This 
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, February 20, 1944; Report of the Indiana
                            Federation of Music Clubs, 1943–1944.
                  
                     19 The journal was published from March, 1900, to January, 1902, at 
                                Indianapolis
                            . At about the same time this publication appeared, Philip Hayden also issued a
                            similar journal at Keokuk, 
                                Iowa
                            . The two journals merged and appeared under the title School
                            Music published at Keokuk, 
                                Iowa
                            . Personal interview with Edward B. Birge.
                  
                     20 From the program.
               
                     concert was the first of a series given by school children, and
                    the custom thus inaugurated has been carried on. It has been noted that the young people gave the
                    cantata Into the World with the 
                        Chicago
                     Symphony Orchestra on May 5, 1909. The response of both teachers and pupils in these
                    undertakings was so immediate and enthusiastic that Birge made the remark that he could at any time,
                    and without undue pressure, get a thousand children together and train them for a concert in six
                        weeks.21
            
            As interest in performances rather than technique increased, the high schools began to include in the
                    curriculum class lessons in piano, violin, and band instruments, given by experienced teachers. In
                    an article which was widely read and reprinted in Europe Birge wrote: 
                        In the last twenty years has occurred a forward advancement in, school music entirely without
                            precedent. The list of musical studies and activities in the curriculum of a high school of
                            the first rank reads very much like that of a high-grade conservatory of music. In the vocal
                            field these are mixed chorus, boy's and girl's glee-clubs and classes in
                            vocal technique: the instrumental field includes first and second orchestra and bands and
                            classes for instruction in all instruments, including the piano: in theory—there
                            are classes in harmony, counterpoint and composition, and the list includes also music
                            appreciation and history, with a strong swing toward making appreciation compulsory for all
                            students. The choruses practice and perform in public the standard oratorios, the glee clubs
                            sing part songs, cantates and light operas, and the orchestras play the symphonies of Haydn,
                            Mozart and Beethoven and many of the best overtures and suites, both classic and modern. The
                            bands are of symphonic fulness in instrumentation and perform the standard selections of
                            band literature. The ensembles include also string quartets and other chamber music
                                groups.22
                  
                    The achievements noted in the above quotation have been handsomely illustrated in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools. There are eighty-four grade schools, each with its orchestra; seven high
                    schools, each with its first and second orchestras, two bands, glee clubs for both boys and girls,
                    and mixed choruses.23 J. Russell Paxton, supervisor in one of the high schools,
                    reports that there are about sixteen hundred pupils in the music department, with nine teachers and
                    one assistant, thirty-five different classes, including harmony, counterpoint, 
                  
                     21 From the program.
                  
                     22 Edward B. Birge, "Public School Music Education in the 
                                United States
                            ," Internationale Zeitschrift für
                            Erziehung (Cologne and Berlin, 1931–), VIII (1939), 379.
                  
                     23 Personal interview with Ralph W. Wright.
               
                     music appreciation and chorus training; also a boys’
                    concert club, a choir, instruction in every sort of instrument, a dance band, an instrumental
                    concert trio, and a girls’ ensemble of ten members. Paxton's Madrigal Singers
                    have given concerts throughout the state, twenty-five in the city, and have appeared on the programs
                    of the National Music Educators’ Association.
            With the higher standards of music instruction in the schools came the question of college entrance
                    credits for work done in music with satisfying answers from many of the colleges. The state
                    university gives partial credits in several branches, full credits in others, and many out-of-state
                    institutions are doing likewise. Following the tenure of Birge, which ended in 1921 when he was
                    called to Indiana University, Ernest G. Hesser filled the office until 1930, when Ralph W. Wright
                    was appointed Director of Music, which position he still holds. He has edited and arranged a book of
                    songs for boys’ use previous to voice mutation.24
            
            Thirty years ago the enrollment of music students in the city's conservatories was reckoned
                    at about twenty-five hundred and today is doubtless much larger. Many private teachers, as well as
                    those employed in the public school system, meet the needs of the budding musician. The College of
                    Musical Art was founded in 1907 by Oliver Willard Pierce offering excellent instruction in vocal and
                    instrumental music. This organization was merged with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     College of Music and Fine Arts in 1918. By 1922 there were a thousand students each
                    year, with thirty instructors. Horace Whitehouse was the director.25 The Arthur 
                        Jordan
                     Conservatory of Music founded in 1928, absorbed the 
                        Indianapolis
                     College of Music and Fine Arts, the Metropolitan School of Music, and drew into its
                    orbit other smaller organizations. The 
                        Jordan
                     Conservatory is affiliated with 
                        Butler
                     University, offers a bachelor's and master's degree, and meets the
                    requirements of a broad musical education. At its fourth annual American Music Festival in 1943
                    Cadman's White Enchantment was presented, and an orchestral concert was
                    given by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Symphony Orchestra under 
                  
                     24 Ralph W. Wright and William Lester (eds.), Four-part
                                Songs for Junior High School Boys (
                                Chicago
                            , 1936).
                  
                     25
                     Prospectus of the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 College of Fine Arts, 1923.
               
                     Sevitzky.26 Connected with the Arthur 
                        Jordan
                     Conservatory are several musical fraternities.27
            
            Chamber music should not be lacking in the city, for at least three string quartets are in existence.
                    The 
                        Cambridge
                     Quartet organized in 1941 and the Civic Quartet are made up of members of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Symphony Orchestra.28 There is also the Musical Art Quartet and
                    Orloff Trio, which gave a program at the John Herron Institute on December 7, 1938.29 The Sinfonietta, composed of twenty women musicians was organized in 1938. The Spare-time
                    Symphony Orchestra with thirty-five amateur players came into being in 1940. The Retired Railroad
                    Employees Association Orchestra has the distinction of numbering among its youngest players a
                    violinist sixty-two years of age, while its oldest member is eighty-nine.
            Another important musical organization was the Indiana Federation of Music Clubs which made 
                        Indianapolis
                     its headquarters. A branch of the National Federation, it was organized in 1916 and
                    reorganized in 1921 under the auspices of the Matinee Musicale.30 At the opening
                    meeting Mrs. Frank Sieberling, president of the National Federation, was the principal speaker, and
                    Mrs. Henry Schurmann was elected state president.31 The first year after its
                    reorganization the number of affiliated clubs in the state increased to forty-five and now totals
                    fifty-nine. At one time there were 245 affiliated clubs.
            
               
                  26
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Star, April 4, 18, and May 2, 1943; Report of Mrs.
                        Frank Cregor, President of the Indiana Federation of Music Clubs. For a sketch of
                        Sevitzky's careerr see pp. 63–64.
               
                  27 The Alpha Sigma Chapter (for men), granted a charter in 1926; the Phi
                        Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity whose parentage goes back to the New 
                            England
                         Conservatory of Music; the Mu Phi Epsilon; the Sigma Alpha Iota; and the Phi Sigma
                        Mu, an honorary body.
               
                  28 The members of the 
                            Cambridge
                         Quartet are Jerome Kaslin, Theodore Silavin, Harold Sorin, and Sam Sciacchitan. The
                        members of the Civic Quartet are Irving Ilmer, John Howell, Jerome Lipson, and Mischa Slatkin.
               
                  29
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Times, December 7, 1938.
               
                  30 As early as December 2, 1916, the Indiana Federation of Music Clubs
                        organized. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, News, December 4, 1916.
               
                  31 Other officers of the club were Ada Bicking, Caroline Hobson, Mrs.
                        Minnie Kimball, Eva Alden, and Anna May Johnson. Presidents of the Federation have been as
                        follows: Mrs. Henry Schurmann, 1921–1926; Mrs. Reed Steele, 1926–1927;
                        Mrs. Edward B. Birge, 1927–1931; Mrs. Jane Johnson Burroughs, 1931–1932;
                        Mrs. Frank Hunter, 1932–1936; Mrs. C. Lloyd Billman, 1936–1940; Mrs. Frank
                        Cregor, 1940–1944; Mrs. Clair McTurnam, 1944– Mrs. Edward B. Birge and Ada
                        Bicking are now honorary members.
            
            
            The activities of the federation include the administration of scholarships for talented young
                    people, student loans, aid to high school bands and orchestras, the sponsoring of broadcasts and
                    musical films, civic concerts, and community singing. It assists in the support of the Symphony
                    Orchestra, gives aid to workers in civilian defense, provides special concerts for servicemen, and
                    sends musicians to perform at the hospitals. Some years ago the federation appropriated fifty
                    dollars for music scores to be rented at a nominal cost to the string quartets and orchestras of the
                    various high schools. This collection is now large and is in charge of the state librarian. The
                    Music-in-Industry section of the federation sponsors the formation of bands, orchestras and choruses
                    in industrial plants, and periodic concerts by visiting artists. Perhaps the most important of all
                    the federation enterprises is the aid it extends to American composers, thus assuring them publicity
                    and an audience in a highly competitive field. Auditions are held, with substantial prizes, in some
                    cases as much as a thousand dollars, for the winners in vocal or instrumental music, and for
                    original compositions. After the prizes have been won, the federation makes plans for the systematic
                    promotion of the prize-winning contestants, and for the performance of the successful scores.32
            
            No record of the musical activities of the city would be complete without an account of the Foster
                    Memorial, which is now located in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , but which had its beginning in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Josiah Kirby Lilly began to collect first editions of the Foster songs in 1931. Lilly
                    had on his estate in 
                        Indianapolis
                     a small, beautiful stone building, equipped with a pipe organ, and in this shrine,
                    which he named Foster Hall, he placed his findings. Collectors are perennially confronted with
                    questions as to authenticity, dates and processes, and Lilly's hobby was no exception.
                    Inquiries and advertisements for Foster items led to a large correspondence, which in turn prompted
                    Lilly to the occasional issue of Foster Hall Bulletins, giving much information
                    and asking for more. The Bulletin in time ran to twelve issues, and a staff of ten
                    people, with Fletcher Hodges, Jr., as director, was ultimately required to attend to the
                    correspondence, classsify and file the incoming items, and to keep up the search for new treasures.
            
               
                  32 Reports of the Indiana Federation of Music Clubs, 1942–1943
                        and 1943–1944. Personal interview with Mrs. Edward B. Birge.
            
            
            Lilly presented the collection in 1935, already very large, to the University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , in the city where Stephen Foster was born, and the transfer was effected two years
                    later. The new Memorial is placed on ground given by the University, in the Cathedral of Learning
                    Quadrangle, facing Shenley Park. It was built by contributions from school children and friends from
                    all parts of the country, but especially sponsored by Mrs. Will Earhart and the Tuesday Musical Club
                    of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Besides offering a site for the Memorial, the University maintains and operates the
                    building, which cost half a million dollars. It is built in Gothic style, of Indiana limestone, and
                    harmonizes with the loftier building of the Cathedral of Learning. The architect was Charles Z.
                    Klauder of 
                        Philadelphia
                    . The Memorial contains an auditorium for lectures and concerts, rooms for the Tuesday
                    Musical Club, offices for the Memorial staff, and the Shrine itself—a twelve-sided room
                    lighted by stained-glass windows depicting themes from the Foster melodies. In the Shrine are
                    displays of manuscripts, letters, personal belongings of Foster, a bibliography of the books,
                    magazine articles, and other printed material relating to his life. In the fireproof vault are the
                    irreplacable first editions and other memorabilia.33
            
            During the six years of the Memorial's existence in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , more than fifteen thousand persons visited the Shrine, coming from all parts of the
                    country. Each week Foster programs were presented by a quartet, lectures and displays of material
                    were given. This procedure has in the main been followed in the new home in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , but on a larger scale. The Memorial has been from the beginning a non-profit
                    organization, and there is no charge either for observation or concerts. In the first year of
                    operation in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     forty thousand people attended programs in the auditorium, and an equal number visited
                    the Shrine. The Memorial sponsors many publications of interest concerning Foster's life,
                    and research workers have examined and sometimes rejected many songs formerly attributed to him. The
                    number of original songs now accepted by the experts is 201. A specially interesting event was the
                    publication of a book 
                  
                     33 Fletcher Hodges, Jr., "A 
                                Pittsburgh
                             Composer and His Memorial," in The 
                                    Western Pennsylvania
                                 Historical Magazine (
                        Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
                     , 1918–), XXI (1938), 77–106.
               
                     of forty of the best-loved Foster songs, edited and arranged by
                    Edward B. Birge and Will Earhart, and through the generosity of Lilly distributed through the public
                    schools and the service camps.34 There are more than ten thousand separate items
                    enshrined in the Memorial, all carefully catalogued and prepared for preservation and use.35
            
            In addition to these numerous activities, the news boys have participated in the music development of
                    their city. For the past forty years, boys’ bands similar to that maintained by the When
                    Clothing Store, have often caught the spotlight away from adult organizations. The newspaper
                    publishers of the city formed a Newsboys’ Band, with J. B. Vandaworker as leader, in
                    1900. Boys entered at the age of seven or eight, held practice in sections twice a week, and their
                    services were generally given free for charitable or educational entertainments. The newspaper
                    owners maintained the band and employed a professional director and manager. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Newsboys Band visited the 
                        Louisiana
                     Exposition and was awarded the first prize for juveniles. Vandaworker celebrated his
                    fortieth anniversary as leader in 1940, and members of the alumni association came from all parts of
                    the country. Among the returning graduates was Roy Howard, head of the Scripps-Howard chain
                    newspapers, who flew from 
                        New York
                     to attend. One alumnus is in 
                        India
                    . Twenty-five hundred boys have been trained in this excellent institution.36
            
            Another boys’ group, organized by Herman Rhine in 1931, was called the Knot Hole Band and
                    consisted of more than 125 children from six to eighteen years of age. There were seventy-five reed
                    and brass pieces and fifty accordions. This organization became so popular that the number of
                    players grew to more than five hundred, and they were in frequent requisition for ball parks and
                    other outdoor entertainments.37
            
            
               
                  34 Will Earhart and Edward B. Birge (eds.), Songs of Stephen
                            Foster (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1934).
               
                  35 Among these items are the following: Early and modern editions of
                        Foster's music, with original manuscripts and facsimiles of manuscripts in other
                        collections, Foster's personal possessions, books relating to the composer, either
                        wholly or in part, songbooks containing Foster music, magazine and newspaper articles, pictures
                        and photographs, phonograph records, broadsides, and miscellaneous.
               
                  36 Attica, Indiana, Ledger-Press, August 7, 1914; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, News, April 9, 1938, and April 13, 1940.
               
                  37
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Star, June 27, 1938, and April 4, 1943; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, News, June 27, 1938.
            
            
            As a culmination of the various musical developments, there came into existence a modern symphony
                    orchestra. Since an orchestra of this type is expensive and cannot be self-supporting, there must be
                    many guarantors and many contributors, as well as devoted workers, for its maintenance. Between
                    those early players and Fabien Sevitsky lies the record of many brave efforts and honorable
                    failures. As has been noted, larger or smaller instrumental groups were in existence all through the
                    intervening century, and at least two of the efforts attained a considerable measure of success.
                    Karl Schneider organized in 1904–1905 an orchestra of sixty pieces with occasional
                    special instruments brought in from 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Schneider placed a symphony on every program and engaged celebrated artists. Elsa
                    Ruegger, Harold Bauer, Vladimir de Pachmann, and Sarah Layton Walker were among the soloists. He not
                    only maintained a high standard of performance, but he also paid his musicians. After two years
                    Schneider left the city, and the orchestra was taken over by Ferdinand Schaefer, a German musician,
                    who came to the city in 1907 and, like Schneider, was on the staff of the Metropolitan School of
                    Music. The strain of the upkeep was too great, however, and presently the players disbanded.38
            
            Early in 1911 another and more successful enterprise was launched through the influence of a group of
                    citizens. Herman Lieber and Leo Rappaport secured financial backing, and a committee of women took
                    up their duties as a Board of Directors.39 The organization was incorporated as
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Orchestra with Alexander Ernestinoff as director. There were about fifty pieces, and
                    the plan was to make it a co-operative society, the profits, if any, to be divided among the
                    players, and the price of seats to be kept low. Four concerts for each year were scheduled. The
                    program given at its second anniversary concert, February 9, 1913, well illustrated the quality of
                    music offered.40 Through 
                  
                     38 James Thrasher, "The Symphony Comes of Age," 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Times, November 15, 1938.
                  
                     39 The women on this board were Anna May Johnson, Mrs. Edward Birge,
                            Mrs. Henry Kahn, Mrs. Henry Schurmann, Mrs. George C. Hitt, and Mrs. D. M. Parry. 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, April 15, 1917.
                  
                     40 The following program was given: Berlioz, Roman
                                Carnival and Hungarian March; Massenet, Hungarian
                                Scenes; Gounod, Funeral March for Marionettes; Mendelssohn. Spring Song; Donizetti, Sextet from Lucia; Liszt, Lex Preludes; and Excerpts from the Nutcracker Suite by
                            Tschaikowsky. 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, February 9, 1913.
               
                     the faithful support of officers and friends, and with large
                    audiences, this orchestra survived for seven seasons on into the first year of the World War giving
                    its last concert on November 11, 1917. Remarkable to state, its discontinuance was not due to
                    financial reasons. For the first time in a long series of experiments, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Orchestra closed its books without a deficit. The average attendance, taken for four
                    years, was 1,850, and the total attendance for the same time was forty-five thousand.41
            
            Other orchestras had a brief term of life, such as that started by P. Marinus Paulsen in 1921 with
                    one concert to its credit. The German House sustained its group of players under Ernestinoff for
                    upwards of a dozen years. In 1909 Victor Ila Clark announced the formation of a new orchestra, which
                    lived through one season. These trials form an interesting contrast to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Symphony Orchestra, which, with its all-women Board of Directors, held up for seven
                    seasons and closed its career fully solvent—a fact eternally to its credit.42
            
            Fourteen years were to pass, however, before another serious attempt in a like direction was made. In
                    November of 1930 and the early months of 1931, Ferdinand Schaefer again brought the leading
                    musicians together and gave four concerts whose programs included the Scotch
                    Symphony of Mendelssohn, the Surprise Symphony of Haydn, and other major
                    works. During the following summer, the citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and of other sections of the state woke up to their opportunity. Meetings were held,
                    plans were discussed, finances were scrutinized, and the result was the formation of the Indiana
                    State Symphony Society which was incorporated in due time. It proved to have been a momentous event,
                    at least establishing an orchestra of first importance on what seemed to be a firm foundation.43 The first president of 
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, November 11, 1917; Statistics from the Report
                            of the Board of Directors.
                  
                     42 Thrasher, "The Symphony Comes of Age," 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Times, November 15, 1928; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, August 16 and 23, 1909.
                  
                     43 "Co-operative Orchestra," Time (
                                New York
                            , 1923–), XVI (November 10, 1930), 44; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, News, November 1, December 13, 1930, January 3,
                            1931, February 7, 14, and 21, 1931; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, October 26, November 2, December 14, 1930,
                            January 4, February 22, 1931; Thrasher, "The Symphony Comes of Age," 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Times, November 16, 1938.
               
                     the society was Herman C. Wolff of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There were nine other officers, forty directors, and a state council of fifteen, of
                    which Mrs. F. H. Sterling was chairman. Thirty-one supporting members were immediately pledged, and
                    the number was soon increased to forty-two. Governor and Mrs. Paul V. McNutt were honorary members
                    of the council. Headquarters of the society were to be in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Ferdinand Schaefer was the conductor.44 The first concert
                    given under the auspices of the newly formed society was on October 24, 1931. Program notes were
                    made by Horace C. Gregory. On December 6, 1932, the Haydn bicentennial was celebrated, the orchestra
                    being supplemented by the Haydn Festival Chorus under the direction of Elmer Steffen.45
            
            Gilbert Hurty of 
                        Indianapolis
                     became president of the society in 1933 with Wolff as honorary director; and in 1935
                    the office was filled by Jacob L. Mueller. The supporting members increased to eighty and special
                    donors gave added encouragement. William H. Hall took the president's chair in 1936 and
                    owing to the illness of Schaefer, the concerts were directed by the assistant, Robert Hager-Goetzel.
                    G.H.A. Clowes in 1941 assumed the presidency, which office he still holds. Two great conductors,
                    Vladimir Bakaleinikoff and Fabien Sevitzky, were invited to take the baton in 1936, and in the
                    following year Sevitzky was appointed conductor, with Schaefer as emeritus directing one concert
                    each year.46
            
            Fabien Sevitzky was born in Russia, September 30, 1893, educated at Petrograd Conservatory, studying
                    piano with Alexander Siloti, the bass viol with Bech, and harmony with Liadoff. Upon his graduation
                    in 1911, he received the gold medal honors. He came to America in 1923 and was at one time a member
                    of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Symphony Orchestra. He founded and conducted the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Sinfonietta and the 
                  
                     44 Thrasher, "The Symphony Comes of Age," 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Times, November 16, 1938; Guido H. Stempel, "Music at
                            Indiana University," Indiana University Alumni Quarterly (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1914–), XXIV (1937), 109–119.
                  
                     45 The program for October 24, 1931, consisted of the following:
                            Beethoven, Overture op. 124, "Die Weihe des Hauses";
                            Schubert, Symphony No. 8, B Minor (Unfinished); Goldmark, Overture op. 13, "L'Arlesienne." 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, News, October 24, 1931. 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, News, December 3 and 7, 1932; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, December 4, 1932; Thrasher, "The
                            Symphony Comes of Age," 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Times, November 16, 1938.
                  
                     46 Report of the Women's Committee, 1944; Thrasher,
                            "The Symphony Comes of Age," 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Times, November 16, 1938.
               
                    
                    
                        Boston
                     People's Symphony Orchestra. Today he holds the honored place of conductor of
                    one of the six leading orchestras of the 
                        United States
                    .47
            
            The efficient business management "which has from the beginning been so important an element
                    in the success of the society, added to its roster a women's committee, whose duty it is to
                    keep in line the donors to the maintenance fund. The donors are classified as active, sustaining, or
                    associate members of the society, and in 1988 numbered altogether 328.48
            
            In proportion to the enlarged interest and support, the activities of the society have greatly
                    increased. In the five years from 1937 to 1941 inclusive, 239 concerts were given in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 69 on tour, and 62 broadcasts were made. There are regular symphonic concerts at
                    two-week intervals during the season, Sunday afternoon popular, children's and park
                    concerts, visits to Indiana and Purdue universities and to many Indiana cities, besides an
                    occasional flight outside the state. The personnel of the orchestra numbers well over a hundred. The
                    weaker sections of the group have been strengthened, faltering players have been eliminated, and the
                    whole body has been brought into balance. Sevitzky has brought to it the best renditions of
                    performance, as well as astounding energy and patience. He has shown eagerness to present not only
                    the great musical literature of the past, but also to welcome productions of more recent writers
                    whenever worthy. He is perhaps better at interpreting Wagner and Shostakovich than in his readings
                    of Beethoven, but what director has not had his affinities? Besides the Beethoven, 
                  
                     47
                            
                                Alexandria
                             Vodarsky-Shiraeff, Russian Composers and Musicians
                            … (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 118; Who's Who In America (
                                Chicago
                            , 1900–), XXIII (1944–1945), 1905; Who Is Who
                                In Music (
                                Chicago
                            , 1941), 206–207.
                  
                     48 Mrs. Charles Latham is president of the committee; Mrs. Easley R.
                            Blackwood, maintenance chairman; Mrs. Frederic M. Ayres, honorary vice-president; Mrs. James
                            W. Fesler, vice-president; Mrs. Booth Tarkington, vice-president; Mrs. Burke Nicholas,
                            secretary; Josephine Madden, treasurer; Mrs. Edwin M. Craft, membership; Mrs. J. A. Goodman,
                            state council; Mrs. Sylvester Johnson, young people's concerts; Mrs. T. Victor
                            Keene, season tickets; Alma Patton, music study; Mrs. Garland F. Retherford,
                            women's organizations; Lucy M. Taggart, social, also a vice-president; Mrs. Harry
                            V. Wade, office service; Mrs. Bliss B. Wells, current notes; Mrs. Herman C. Wolff, radio;
                            and the following regional directors: Mrs. G. D. Thatcher of 
                                Kokomo
                            , Mrs. Harry Lee Beshore of 
                                Marion
                            , Mrs. C. Lloyd Billman of Manilla, and Mrs. Ward G. Biddle of 
                                Bloomington
                            . From the program of the 1944–1945 season of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Symphony Orchestra.
               
                     Mendelssohn, Haydn, and Tschaikowsky symphonies familiar to
                    every concertgoer, he has introduced many less well-known compositions, such as the Lalo Symphonie Espagnole, Converse's Symphony No. 6, and the
                    Kallinikoff Symphony in G Major. Many new American composers have been featured on
                    his programs: Cesana with his Negro Heaven; Shepherd, Lone 
                            Prairie
                        ; Bloch, America; Taylor, Suite from Peter
                        Ibbetson in concert form, Carpenter, McCollin, Eppert, Benjamin, Dubensky, and VanVactor.
                    Twenty-three different compositions by twenty-one American composers, with a total of seventy-eight
                    performances. Of the twenty-three compositions, seven were world premieres.49
            
            In the name of the society, Sevitzky commissioned David VanVactor, a member of the 
                        Chicago
                     Symphony Orchestra, to write for him; and the result was Overture to a
                        Comedy, No. 2, produced by the orchestra. VanVactor was born in 
                        Plymouth
                    , Indiana, in 1906.50 The orchestra gave a concert in 1942 for the
                    employees of Mallory and Company, with Charles Wakefield Cadman as soloist. Twenty-two names from
                    among the players were on the Roll of Honor in the armed services.51 During the
                    season 1943–1944, the orchestra played seventy-two concerts in twenty-one weeks, with
                    additional performances for servicemen at Camp Atterbury. It was one of six organizations invited by
                    the Office of War Information to make recordings for broadcasts overseas. Sevitzky has also
                    sponsored the young musicians’ contests, alternating with the biennial contests arranged
                    by the National Federation of Music Clubs.52
            
            The symphony may be a large undertaking for 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Indiana, but for the individual who enjoys good music, support is more than repaid
                    by the stimulation and deep satisfaction which it affords.
            
               
                  49 Report of the Secretary, Indiana State Symphony Society and compilation
                        from programs; Thrasher, "The Symphony Comes of Age," 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Times, November 17, 1938.
               
                  50
                        Who's Who In America, XXIII, 2184; Who Is Who In
                        Music, 230.
               
                  51
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Star, November 29, 1942; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, News, November, 30, 1942.
               
                  52 Report for 1943–1944 by Gladys Crane Wells, Representative
                        of the Indiana State Symphony Society.
            
         
         
         
            THE MISSISSIPPI VALLEY HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION ANNUAL MEETING
            The annual meeting of the Missippi Valley Historical Association is to be held at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, April 18–20 inclusive. Many readers of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History will want to take advantage of the opportunity to attend this meeting.
                    The program will begin with a luncheon conference on Thursday, April 18, at 12:30 in the Union
                    Building on the university campus. Mrs. Jeannette P. Nichols will read a paper on "The 
                        London
                     Debacle of 1933." In the afternoon there will be three sessions, one on
                    American Intellectual History, a second on the Far West, and the third on the Old Northwest. The
                    following papers will be given at the latter session: "The Yorke-Camden Opinion of
                    1773" by Theodore C. Pease, "Abbe Jean Rivet at 
                        Vincennes
                    , 1795–1804" by Thomas T. McAvoy, and "The Last Years of
                    Pontiac" by Howard H. Peckham. In the evening the annual dinner of the Association will be
                    held. President Wells is to preside and welcome the guests and Professor William C. Binkley will
                    deliver the presidential address, "The War and the Historians." On Friday morning
                    there will be three sessions devoted to the following topics: George 
                        Washington
                    , Historical Writing on the Middle West Since World War I, and An Evaluation of the
                    Federal Land Grant Policy. A luncheon conference will be held at 12:30 which will be followed by the
                    annual business meeting of the Association. In the afternoon there will be a session on Economic
                    History and another on Abuse and Reform. The dinner of the evening which is complimentary to the
                    members of the Association will hear an address by William G. Carleton of the University of 
                        Florida
                     on "Isolationism and the Middle West." Dr. Albert L. Kohlmeier will
                    preside. On Saturday morning the Teachers’ Section of the Association in co-operation
                    with The National Council for Social Studies, The Indiana Council for Social Studies, and The 
                        Illinois
                     Council for Social Studies will hold a panel discussion on "New Emphases in
                    World History" at ten o'clock and at twelve noon a luncheon conference. At the
                    latter meeting Edward Everett Dale of of the University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     will speak on "Teaching on the Plains Frontier at the Close of the 19th
                    Century." Robert LaFollette of Ball State Teachers College will preside.
            Reservations for rooms on the campus and for the luncheons and dinners should be mailed to Miss
                    Elfrieda Lang, Indiana Magazine of History, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, as soon as possible. Guests are expected from all over the 
                        United States
                     and the University must know the number it is to entertain.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            HOWARD H. PECKHAM
            
            A full publishing program is planned by the Historical Society for 1946. Its latest Publication, Pioneer Sketches of the Upper Whitewater Valley by Bernhard Knollenberg,
                    appeared at the end of 1945 and was distributed in January. The next Publication
                    will appear in the fall. It will be the late George R. Wilson's report on the Buffalo
                    Trace, the historic trail from New 
                        Albany
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            Meanwhile, the next number in the Prehistory Research Series will be issued this
                    spring. It will be a monograph by Vernon Kinietz, formerly of the University of 
                        Michigan
                     Museums, entitled 
                  
                            Delaware
                         Culture Chronology. In co-operation with the Historical Bureau, the Society is
                    sponsoring a memorial volume to Dr. Christopher B. Coleman, to consist of several of his addresses
                    on Indiana and the Old Northwest and on his philosophy of history. This volume will be distributed
                    to libraries within the state, but must be sold to individuals. Members will be given an opportunity
                    to subscribe to the volume at a later date.
            At the last executive committee meeting, it was voted to publish in pamphlet form a list of the
                    members of the Society, the constitution, and a list of the Publications before
                    the annual meeting in December. Meanwhile, every effort will be made to gain as many new members as
                    possible. In this effort, each member can assist by sending to the secretary's office the
                    names of prospects who might care to join.
            The Proceedings of the Indiana History Conference of last December were published
                    in the special January issue of the Indiana History Bulletin and distributed to
                    members. The library committee has prepared a special annual report of the William Henry Smith
                    Memorial Library which is being separately printed and will be sent to all members.
            Mrs. Charles C. Kryter, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , has made a gift to the Society's library of 110 first editions of Indiana
                    authors and early histories from the private library of the late Mr. Kryter, an executive of the
                    Bobbs-Merrill Company and for many years a member of the Historical Society. A few titles were
                    duplicates of books already in the library, so Mrs. Kryter generously permitted the library to trade
                         the duplicates for other titles which the Historical Society
                    would like to own. All of the books will carry the library's bookplate with a notice of the
                    donor's name.
            By the time you read this, the Angel Mounds archaeological site near 
                        Evansville
                    , owned and excavated by the Historical Society since 1938, will be in the hands of the
                    Department of Conservation, to be administered as a state memorial for the educational benefit of
                    the people of Indiana. The Society retains the right to continue explorations in the area, but it is
                    expected that the Conservation Department will make some reconstructions of the old Indian village,
                    erect a museum, and provide guides to show the public through the site. This transfer was made as a
                    gift, after the! Society had saved the site for posterity by purchasing it.
         
         
            LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS
            Thomas D. Clark is chairman of the history department at the University of 
                  Kentucky, Lexington,
                            Kentucky
               .
            Elfrieda Lang is the secretary and assistant to the editor of the Indiana, Magazine of
                        History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Mrs. Martha F. Bellinger, a former resident of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , now lives in 
                  Wayne, Maine
               .
            Howard H. Peckham is the secretary of the Indiana Historical Society and the director of the Indiana
                    Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            Cecil K. Byrd is the curator of special collections, Indiana University Library, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            R. Carlye Buley is professor of history at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Dorothy L. Riker is research assistant at the Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            Documents: JOURNAL OF ISRAEL COGSHALL, 1862–1863
            CECIL K. BYRD
            
            
               
                        Israel
                     Cogshall, a Methodist minister of Coldwater, 
                        Michigan
                    , was appointed a chaplain in the Nineteenth Regiment, 
                        Michigan
                     Infantry Volunteer on August 5, 1862, by Governor Austin Blair. From October 24, 1862,
                    to September 9, 1863, he kept a journal. Nowhere in the journal is there a lengthy philosophical
                    discussion or political observation—Chaplain Cogshall was a busy man—but only
                    brief and hurried entries. Nevertheless, the journal is important for there is no regimental history
                    of the Nineteenth 
                        Michigan
                     and because of the proximity of the Nineteenth 
                        Michigan
                     with the Thirty-third and Eighty-fifth Indiana. Cogshall seems to have adjusted himself
                    to the milieu of military life with great rapidity and to have concentrated his energies on
                    improving the spiritual welfare of the soldiers. If one reads his journal, there can be no doubting
                    but that he carried his spirit of evangelism with him into the war.
            The journal was written with pencil in two small leather-bound volumes. In addition to the narrative
                    journal there are many miscellaneous entries: notations of money loaned to the soldiers,
                    expenditures for mess, police details, laundry lists, and random thoughts. Only the chronological
                    account is here published. Cogshall gave little attention to the fine points of grammar. The editor
                    has not attempted to rectify this. But to facilitate reading, spaces have been left between words
                    where punctuation marks should have been placed.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Friday Oct 24 [1862] Bought this day a saddle & Bridle & Saddle Rags
                                    & Regalia for which I gave 20.00 Borrowed for the above purpose of Surgeon
                                    W. E. Clarke 10.00 After finishing my business in 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     went over the river to 
                                        Covington
                                     & obtained Lodging at the Drovers Inn Slept but a troubled
                                    sleep think I had to many bedfellows
                        Sat Oct 25 paid my bill $1.25 Awful, Awful, for such fair but live
                                    & learn. took cars at 8 O'clock & came to Falmouth [
                                        Kentucky
                                    ] at about 11 O'clock found the Regt. gone to Cynthianna had
                                    left a horse for me got my mail for the Regt & took horse & came
                                    through 221
                           2 miles weary & hungry an
                                    hour after dark eat supper & went to bed
                        Sunday Oct 26th Found the snow this morning about 4 inches deep ordered to be ready
                                    & at 9 O'clock the order came to break camp & at 10 were
                                    under way & marched to 
                                        Paris
                                     in Burbon Co got through  about
                                    Sunset A dreary day & a dreary inarch But war knows no Sunday & I
                                    fear the soldiers know as little of Justice & right Some of these men are
                                    consummate theives. Was in the saddle to day from 10 AM till sunset
                        Mon 27 Slept cold last night or rather was to cold to sleep this morning broke camp
                                    & marched about 4 miles & encamped about 10 A.M. It was said to
                                    remain for 2 days but Just at evening orders came to get ready to march at 7 A.M.
                                    tomorrow so
                        Tuesday Oct 28 Slept comfortable last night broke Camp & came to 
                                        Lexington
                                     & encamped about 3 miles north of the City
                        Wednesday Oct 29 remained in camp wrote home to day at eve I went to the city with
                                    Col Gilbert1 Adj Adams & Surgeon Clarke
                        Thursday Oct 30 Went to the city to day & thence about 2 miles to Ashland the
                                    home of departed genius & worth his Son is in the rebel Army after taking
                                    the oath of allegiance & giving bonds for $5000. How are the
                                    mighty fallen The widow of the great 
                                        Clay
                                     lives in house on the estate it is a beautiful spot Sad that it should
                                    be desolated & blighted by treason
                        Friday Oct 31 Mustered for payment today (The whole Regt) hope to be payed one of
                                    these days & went to the city for mail this P M Sat Nov 1st Took charge of
                                    the Mess to day for the staff
                        Sunday Nov 2d preached at 2 P.M. young man proposed to go to town to buy butter but I
                                    looked at the stock on hand & said no
                        
                        Mon Nov 3d Went to town this morning & did Some marketing for the Mess bought
                                    potatoes Irish at 75 cts per bush Sweet at 81—-butter 30 cts per lb
                                    turnips 10 cts per peck Sent by Dr Bennett for the mail
                        Tuesday Nov 4 Hewitt bought 3 ckickens for 50 cts at a farm house near by &
                                    got a quart of milk
                        Wed Nov 5
                        Thursday Nov 6 went to town & returned with mail about 71/2 P.M.
                        Friday Nov 7 Gen Baird & Col Coburn2 dined with us today
                                    Sent a Telegraphic dispatch to Mrs Capt 
                                        Brown
                                     that her husband was very sick & desired her to come Sent by
                                    Capt Lincoln for the Mail Nov 8 Sent by Lieut Ferguson for the mail to day
                        Sunday Nov 9th Wrote this morn to Henry (my Brother) a long
                        letter & at 2 P M preached from Jas 4.8 Wrote to wife this eve Monday 10th
                        Wednesday Nov 12 Orders Nicholasville leave to morrow at 71/2 A.M. Quite possibly for winter Quarters
                        thurs Nov 13 broke camp at 
                                        Lexington
                                     at 8 A.M. & reached 
                              
                                 1 H. C. Gilbert was a colonel in the Nineteenth 
                                                Michigan
                                            .
                              
                                 2 Absalom Baird was a Brigadier General of the Third
                                            Division of the Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                            . The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the
                                                Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (70 vols. 
                                                Washington
                                            , 1880–1901), Series 1, XX, part 2 (1887), 288.
                                            Colonel John Coburn was a member of the Eighty-fifth Regiment Indiana
                                            Volunteers. In peace time he was an attorney at law in 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            . J. E. Brant, History of the Eighty-fifth Indiana
                                                Volunteer Infantry, its Organization, Campaigns and Battles (
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Indiana, 1902), 14.
                           
                                     Nicholasville at about 31/2 P.M. encamped within about 80 rods of the town
                        Friday 14 Fixed up a little but advised by the Col not to work to hard at it as we
                                    might be called upon to move 2 or 3 miles for convenience of wood & water
                        Sat 15 No move to day & no move expected to morrow a review ordered for 9
                                    A.M. to morrow. Reed a letter this PM from Bela & wife Some what out of time
                                    this PM must have taken a cold Sweating some tonight hope to be better in the
                                    Morning
                        Sunday 16 Went to church this morning in town heard a very fair sermon from C. D.
                                    Pilsbury Chaplain 22 
                                        Wis
                                     to Dinner with Dr Mathews sup of 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     Con & with Pilsbury preached to my Regt in the church had
                                    previously obtained consent & at night preached in the same church to the
                                    congregation in the same church after service met unexpectedly John G. Bruce went to
                                    a Mr Browns & stayed all night with him
                        Mon Nov 17 In camp
                        Tuesday 18 In Camp
                        Wed 19
                        Dec 1st Have been in camp since last entry the usual monotony unbroken save by a few
                                    camp incidents Have been having boils on my face one on my lip & one on my
                                    chin stayed at my friend Browns most of last week better now John W Barrett of Co D.
                                    died in hospital today he is said to have enlisted from Leonidas
                        Dec 2 Visited the post hospital this morning & tried to find out something in
                                    reference to Barrett (Deceased)
                        Dec 3 John W. Barrett Co D. was buried in Nicholasville Grave Yard this eve at 5
                                    O'clock with Military honors Am to have charge of the Mess for another
                                    Month
                        Thurs Dec 11 ordered to march for 
                                        Danville
                                     to morrow mornin are to go to Camp Dick Robinson to morrow &
                                    next day to 
                                        Danville
                                    
                        
                        Frid 12 broke camp & started at 6 O'clock this morning arrived
                        at Camp Dick Robinson at 1 0 clock having marched 15 miles This place is historic
                                    & it is Said Genl Nelson was very partial to it Yet it is difficult to See
                                    why It possesses no apparent advantages for a military camp above almost any other
                                    piece of land either at Nicholasville or 
                                        Danville
                                    
                        
                        Dec 13 broke camp at Dick Robinsons this morning a little before Six &
                                    marched to 
                                        Danville
                                     71/2 miles arrived at about 9
                                    O'clock A.M. got our camp pitched & tents all up when an order came
                                    to tear up & remove about 3/4 of a
                                    mile to the east & a about three fourths of a mile South east of the town we
                                    are now south West of it we pull up move & pitch our tents again get through
                                    at Dark Col & Self go to town in an Ambulance to get something to eat over
                                    Sunday as to day is Saturday get 4 lbs butter & 35 lbs of beef & 12
                                    loaves of bread get back & get supper about 9 PM out of 2 cans of oysters
                                    the Col got
                        Sunday 14 Went to M. E. C. South little man by the name of Mesick is Minister came
                                    & asked me Do you belong to the church? Yes are you a
                                    preacher? Yes are you a Methodist Yes Well then go into the pulpit I went
                                    & then was pressed to preach did so from 
                                    Matthew 18.20 had a pretty good time went & took dinner with a man by the
                                    name of Eads who is resident here & chaplain of a 
                                        Ky
                                     Regt this eve here Gilmore an Indiana Chaplain preached from
                                    ‘As for God his Way is Perfect" He preached all over but gave it
                                    to us warm
                        Thurs 25th Had a sort of Christmas dinner in camp Col furnished the men with oysters
                                    & a Keg of beer to the company had a good time generally this eve received
                                    orders to march to Mumfordsville tomorrow morning on Louisville & Nashville
                                    R. R. Start at 6 O clock
                        Friday 26 Broke camp this morning at 6 A.M. During the night our orders have been
                                    changed from Mumfordsville to 
                                        Lebanon
                                     commenced to rain about 8 0 clock & continued to rain till
                                    about 12 M at about 2 PM we encamp on the ground occupied by Buel During the battle
                                    of Perryville everybody has got thoroughly wet but nobody seems very unhappy we have
                                    made about half the distance from 
                                        Danville
                                     to 
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                        
                        Sat 27 Reveille at 41/2 A.M. breakfast 5.30,
                                    While eating it Capt Lupton comes in & informs us that during the night
                                    orders have been received to march back to 
                                        Danville
                                     we take up the line of march & at 1 O'clock P.M. are
                                    on the ground we left yesterday morning & pitch our tents up on the same
                                    spot, but are told privately that we have orders to march to 
                                        Lebanon
                                     tomorrow morning
                        Sund 28 Genl Baird does not intend to move today if he can help it & we do
                                    not move went to church this eve heard a fair sermon on the Judgment from Rev Mr
                                    Eads a 
                                        Ky
                                     Chaplain return to Camp & find we have orders to march to 
                                        Lebanon
                                     tomorrow Morn
                        Mon 29 Reveille at 4 30 AM ordered to move at 7 AM at 5 30 AM ordered not to go but
                                    22 Wis & 33 Ind are to go forward Rebel Cavalry reported to be moving on
                                    Harrodsburg
                        Tues 30 Quiet during the night except that the 33 Ind & 22 
                                        Wis
                                     are ordered back to 
                                        Danville
                                     when they are within 5 miles of 
                                        Lebanon
                                     the[y] retrace their Steps about 3 miles when this last order is
                                    countermanded & they are faced about & again started for 
                                        Lebanon
                                     10 P.M. 9000 Rebels said to be within 12 miles of this place have Just
                                    gone to bed get up & dress think it hardly prudent to Sleep with clothes off
                        Feb 2 18633 Left 
                                        Louisville
                                     at 3 PM on Steamer 
                                        Ohio
                                     No. 3 for 
                                        Nashville
                                    
                           4
                                    growing cold
                        
                        Feb 3 Very cold The men on the guards of the boat must have slept cold last night
                                    today we stopped 
                                        Evansville
                                     for boat supplies we also laid in a barrel of hams & some
                                    potatoes for the mess At Midnight reached Smithland— The mouth of the
                                    Cumberland
                        
                           
                              3 Sometime in January, 1863, the Nineteenth 
                                            Michigan
                                        , Thirty-third Indiana, and the Eighty-fifth Indiana along with
                                        seventeen other-infantry divisions had been ordered to 
                                            Nashville
                                         to support Major General W. S. Rosecrans. The War of
                                            the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records …,
                                        Series 1, XX, parts 2, pp. 342–343.
                           
                              4 There were fifty-four transports, six gunboats, and a
                                        number of barges in the fleet transporting the soldiers to 
                                            Nashville
                                        . John R. McBride, History of the Thirty-third Indiana
                                            Veteran Volunteer Infantry … (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , Indiana, 1900), 72.
                        
                        
                        Feb 4 Left Smithland where we took in coal at 31/2 A.M we ascend the Cumberland slowly Receivd last night at Smithland an order
                                    to hurry forward as the Rebels had attacked Fort Donalson & fighting was
                                    going [on] there Reached Fort Donalson about 4 P.M & found that that there
                                    had been a fight here yesterday 6000 Rebels attacked the place on every side or on
                                    three sides at the same time They were pressing our little force sharply when the
                                    Gunboats arrived Just in time to save the place the Rebels retreated they took one
                                    Gun but [left] about 150 dead 150 prisoners behind them we lost 14 Killed &
                                    about 40 wounded5
                        
                        Feb 5 Went ashore this morning to see the battle field of day before yesterday a
                                    number of dead horses are lying around they are burying the last of the dead to day
                                    113 were buried yesterday this morning 18 more were more were found one Rebel Col
                                    was killed & one is said to day to have been taken prisoner The Col killed
                                    in the battle was McNair or Neary6 he was buried this morning I
                                    did not see the burial We are lying here waiting for Orders They may come to day
                                    they may come tomorrow or next day we can only wait Yesterday was pressed by the Col
                                    to accept a Capts commission & take Co D (
                                        Brown
                                    ) resigned on account of sickness) after careful deliberation I declined
                                    the place Up to this time we are to pay 12/-per day for our fare on this boat
                                    Hereafter we Breakfast at 9 AM & Dine at 3 P.M. & pay a dollar per
                                    day
                        Feb 6 This morning still lying at Fort Donalson at Breakfast received orders to be
                                    ready at 101/2 AM got under way for the
                                    purpose of getting in position The whole fleet is to proceed convoyed by the
                                    Gunboats said to be 5 in No. Last night rumor said that the enemy were fortifying 11
                                    miles above Fort Donalson if so we shall stir them up to day
                        Feb 7 No Enemy was seen yesterday we ran slowly up the river all night This morning
                                    passed Clarksville & at 5 PM arrived at 
                                        Nashville
                                     Here I got a mail—large number of letters but No papers 
                                        Nashville
                                     looks old & deserted nothing seen but Soldiers & a few
                                    citizens mostly small tradesmen
                        Feb 8 Today we we remained on the boat the day being occupied in getting the waggons
                                    on shore & loading them & as the waggons were all taken to pieces
                                    they had to be put together This was the sabbath but Oh how little of its sanctities
                                    were seen around us as all was hurry & confusion we had no religious
                                    services of any kind
                        Feb 9 Went on shore this morn & marched out 3 miles on the 
                                        Franklin
                                     pike & encamped got into camp about noon on a fine piece of
                                    rooling ground east of the pike belonging to a rebel Dr & immediately in
                                    front of Mrs 
                                        Brown
                                     widow of the late A. V. Brown P.M.G. under 
                              
                                 5 The fighting mentioned is sometimes called the
                                            "second battle" of Fort Donelson. Confederate Generals H.
                                            B. Forrest, Joseph Walker, and J. A. Wharton with some four thousand men
                                            attempted to retake the fort commanded by Colonel Abner C. Harding. The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official,
                                                Records …, Series 1, XXIII, part 1 (1889),
                                            31–41.
                              
                                 6 Colonel F. N. McNairy.
                           
                                     Buchanan she is rebel but being alone she has a
                                    safe guard from Rosecrans & had from Buel & Negley
                        Feb 10 Quietly in Camp to day Adams came to Col Quarters to night sick &
                                    remains there [over] night
                        Feb 11 Adams in our Camp to day sick Men had battallion drill this P.M.
                        Feb 12 To day quietly in camp got very little mail for Regt & have heard
                                    nothing from home for several days Thoat a little sore to night Have been much
                                    exercised in mind for several days about the increase of card playing cannot expect
                                    to stop the men while officers openly play daily I pray for wisdom & grace
                                    Oh my Father teach what I ought to do & give me strength to do it
                        Feb 13 Thoat still some sore was better this morning but worse again to night still
                                    hope it will be nothing serious Have heard nothing from my family yet & we
                                    get very little mail for the Regt this evening wrote a letter for Benj Green to his
                                    wife & afterwards read a chapter from the Bible & prayed with him he
                                    seems to be very penitent & earnestly desires to be a Christian & I
                                    felt happy while I prayed for him & was able to ask pardon for him with much
                                    confidence Oh for a revival of piety among these so many of whom are to find a tomb
                                    among Strangers
                        Feb 14 Went to town today with an escort to bury Geo Benedict but found no grave dug
                                    & had to deposit the body in the dead house & leave it
                        Sunday Feb 15 To day sent to town & got the body of Benedict & buried
                                    it in a fine grove adjoining our camp I spoke to the boys a few minutes perhaps a
                                    few will remember
                        Monday Feb 16th
                        Tuesday Feb 17th
                        Wednesday 18 To day was taken sick, went into breakfast but experienced such a
                                    loathing for food that I was compelled immediately to retire I know nothing what
                                    occurred the balance of this day except that towards night they brought me a letter
                                    from my wife
                        Thursday 19th To day a little better the Doctor thinks it a violent attack of Typho
                                    Malarial fever this evening feel much better
                        Fri 20 To day much better so that I am up & packed up my things as we have
                                    orders to move to Brentwood tomorrow about 10 miles from 
                                        Nashville
                                    
                        
                        Sat. Feb 21st Broke camp at 7.30 A.M. & at 8 were under way found the road
                                    good & at about 10 45 A.M reached Brentwood which is said to be a sort of
                                    run way for Guerillas so that we are really as much exposed here as in the front I
                                    have stood the [march] much better than I expected Thanks to a kind providence I am
                                    not greatly wearried nor do I feel worse than this morning though the Doctors
                                    evidently thought it imprudent for me to come So true it is He shall cov thee with
                                    feathers & under his wings shall thou trust
                        Sunday Feb 22 Feel very comfortable this morning & upon whole have had a very
                                    comfortable day We have remained Quiet in Camp at Brentwood The day has not been
                                    very cold though cloudy Some pillaging began this morning which was promptly
                                    punished & I think we shall have no more trouble on that score at present
                        
                        Monday Feb 23 Quite Cold last night Slept tolerably last night but am not as well
                                    this morning
                        Tuesday Feb 24th Not quite as well to day took a dose of Quinine & slept for
                                    several hours & this evening felt better bowels still out of order
                        Wednesday Feb 25 Better this morning hope now to get along at once commenced raining
                                    at 11 A.M.
                        Friday Feb 27 Felt better this morning but not so well this eve had a floor put in
                                    our tent to day which makes us more comfortable fine day to day mud drying up
                                    rapidly
                        Sat Feb 28th Went to bed last night with much Distress in my bowels Took a dose of
                                    Quinine & some pills & tryed to sleep for a 2d time dropped to sleep
                                    about half past ten & slept heavily till this morning much alarm existed
                                    last night two companies were marched out to support the pickets from our Regt
                                    & another placed as a Special guard in the rear of our camp. Rebel cavalry
                                    were all around us fell quite as well as I expected this morning This being the last
                                    day of Feb is the regular muster-day We muster at 11 O'clock A.M. rainy
                                    again to day rained a little this fore noon & this eve had a heavy shower
                                    Took some camphor to alleviate the pain in my bowels (& found it opperate
                                    finely this evening took some more with the same good effect) Were ordered this eve
                                    to be ready to march at a minutes warning night or day to support Genl Gilbert7 who is expecting an attack at 
                                        Franklin
                                     9 miles distant buried Postman Co K. to day in the ground beside our
                                    camp
                        Sunday March 1st A very fine morning clear with a bracing atmosphere cool but not
                                    cold or uncomfortable Had no service today the weather being to cool for the men to
                                    stand & the ground to damp for them to sit This evening the Col offered the
                                    use of his tent for a prayer meeting which I accepted & we had a good prayer
                                    meeting from 7 to 8 P M
                        Monday Mar 2 A pleasant day all thing's move as usual untill 2.30 PM when we
                                    received orders to move in 30 minutes to support Genl Gilbert at 
                                        Franklin
                                     get under weigh in an hour & at 7.45 P.M arrive at our camping
                                    ground in sight of 
                                        Franklin
                                     Pitch tents get supper & to bed at 12 M
                        Tuesday Mar 3 Awoke at 6 A.M. but Dropped to sleep again & slept till 7 A.M.
                                    shall not fix up our camp much here as we are to remove to a new camping ground to
                                    morrow morning cannot learn any thing definite about a skirmish said to have
                                    occurred here yesterday This eve at 11 PM were ordered to be ready to march early 8
                                    O'clock AM to morrow to Spring Hill & thence to Hauley Springs
                                    [Raleigh Springs] there to communicate with a party sent out from Murfreesboro take
                                    4 days rations 2 in haversacks & 2 in waggons only 4 tents to be allowed to
                                    a Co including one for officers & 2 tents for staff allowed only 4 teams for
                                    all our traps but all the waggons but one to go for forage
                        
                           
                              7 Charles C. Gilbert was the commander of the forces at 
                                            Franklin
                                        . The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the
                                            Official Records …, Series 1, XXIII, part 1, p. 73.
                        
                        
                        Wednesday Mar 4t Reveillee at 5 A.M. Got under way at 8 A.M. but did not get across
                                    the Pontoon till near 10 3 miles out we encountered the rebel Cavalry no means of
                                    knowing how many of them about 11 A.M. We had one battery 6 guns 18th 
                                        Ohio
                                     Capt Aylshire) Infantry were formed in line of battle & the
                                    battery commenced firing Rebels advanced to within 80 rods of our guns when they
                                    retreated after about 45 minutes our large train of 80 waggons were started back
                                    & went back to 
                                        Franklin
                                     or within a short distance of it a courier was sent back for special
                                    instruction he returned with instructions that if the waggon train was in the way to
                                    send it back but to go ahead All the waggons except 4 to a regiment were sent back
                                    & about 4 O clock we proceeded we advanced about a mile over a hill
                                    & again drove in the rebel pickets it being now almost sunset we encamped
                                    for the night on the ground occupied by the enemy when we first encountered them
                                    this morning planting our batteries on the hill occupied by theirs we had one man
                                    Corporal Coshun of Co F wounded in thigh we found 10 of the enemy's dead So
                                    said Adj Adams Our force consisted of the 33 & 85th Ind 19th & 22 
                                        Wis
                                     The 124 
                                        Ohio
                                     18 
                                        Ohio
                                     Bat & About 600 cavalry consisting of parts of the 9 Penn
                                    & 2d Mich
                        Thursday Mar 5th During the night Col Coburn sent back for a fresh supply of
                                    ammunition for the Artillery as we were nearly out got none but 200 additional
                                    Cavalry came up got into line of March at 8 O clock A.M. & advanced
                                    cautiously Soon Drove in their pickets & skirmished for about 2 miles when
                                    the enemy's artillery opened upon our battery turned about &
                                    commenced a backward movement this was soon stopped & they ordered into
                                    position on a hill The Infantry were ordered up for a support the 19th & 22 
                                        Wis
                                     on the left & the 33 & 85 Ind on the right the 124 
                                        Ohio
                                     were left to guard the train Soon afterward a movement was discovered
                                    on a hill about a half mile to our left & rear which was soon explained by a
                                    shell from a gun which the rebs had planted there soon afterwards our battery having
                                    exhausted their ammunition commenced a retreat the 33 & 85 had been engaged
                                    at Musketry range for about 30 minutes & it was evident they were having a
                                    warm time Just as our artillery fell back a column advanced & attacked the
                                    19th & 22 
                                        Wis
                                     they were surrounded & it is feared entirely cut of or taken
                                    prisoners with the exception of about 150 of the 22d 
                                        Wis
                                     who fell back along the pike & made their escape the 33d
                                    & 85 Ind are almost all missing Nothing definitely can be learned tonight of
                                    the fate of Col Coburn Col Gilbert Col Baird Lt Col Crane Major Shafter or Maj Craig
                                    & most of the line officers of these 4 Regts This has been a sad day for for
                                    us I feel crushed & stunned I can hardly think we were pursued nearly to 
                                        Franklin
                                     (within about 31/2 miles
                                    Tomorrow if possible we shall go out with a flag of truce & bury our dead
                                    & bring off such of such of our wounded as may still be alive8
                        
                        
                           
                              8 The engagement here described was that of
                                        Thompson's Station. Losses were heavy in this battle. The Nineteenth 
                                            Michigan
                                         had 20 killed, 92 wounded, and 345 captured or missing. The
                                        Thirty-third Indiana had 13 killed, 85 wounded, and 407 captured or missing. The
                                        Eighty-five Indiana had 8 killed, 25 wounded, and 251 missing or captured. Ibid., 75.
                        
                        
                        Friday March 6th Received permission from Gen Baird to accompny the flag of truce
                                    which was sent out to ask permission to bury our dead & take care of our
                                    wounded Went out within 2 miles of the battle field before we encountered the
                                    enemy's pickets Were stopped & the request sent forward to VanDorn
                                    after waiting from 12 M. to 5 P.M. the request was refused & we were
                                    compelled to return from the guards we learned that they had buried our dead
                                    & cared for our wounded two Rebel surgeons who came up to the guard station
                                    however reported that our wounded men had not had their wounds properly dressed for
                                    want of bandages, Ether & Choroform They report that they have 2200
                                    prisoners this however must be a mistake as we have less than 1700 missing all
                                        told9 They said they had buried from 50 to 75 of our dead
                                    & had 250 of our wounded they did not recollect of burying or dressing the
                                    wounds of any commissioned officer Col Coburn was reported as unharmed
                        Saturday Mar 7 Arranged to send a dispatch to G. W. Gilbert That the Col was probably
                                    a prisoner & unwounded Wrote to wife Mrs Shafter & Capt Thomsons
                                    friends got all Col things together & this eve Adams came over &
                                    packed them preparatory to sending them home
                        Sunday Mar 8h Went over into town this morning more in wandering reflective mood than
                                    anything else finally concluded to find a church found Methodist riddled with
                                    bullets & deserted Episcopalian used as a hospital Went into presbyterian
                                    & sat down to listen to the sermon a few minutes after the sermon began
                                    heard the Boom of Artillery & went out & started for camp intending
                                    to get my horse & ride out & see what it meant When I got to camp
                                    found we had been ordered back to guard the Bridge at Brentwood Broke camp about 2
                                    P.M. & arrived at the bridge at Sundown rained this P.M. pitched a tent in
                                    the mud & laid down & slept
                        Monday Mar 9th To day is bright & clear tried to get a detail put up tent but
                                    Capt Bassett is either utterly incompetent to perform the duties of commandor or has
                                    deliberately made up his mind that he will do nothing he has determined that he will
                                    leave the service at all hazzards & so will do nothing in it He has tendered
                                    his resignation 3 times already Failing in all attempts to get help I took off my
                                    coat called to my help our cook & the man who takes care of Q.M & my
                                    horse & went to work & before noon had up the 5 tents we occupy
                                    inclusive of cook tent. We are in a most deplorable condition There is no authority
                                    no Subordination men go where they please & when they please Have been
                                    strongly tempted to resign my Chaplaincy to day if the Rebels desire us to accompany
                                    our commands they have only to come & take us
                        Tuesday March 10th Last night at Dusk it commenced to rain & it has rained
                                    Steadily ever since except about 2 hours in the middle of the day & bids
                                    fair to rain all night Yesterday our forces advanced again from 
                                        Franklin
                                     with what result we have not yet learned As we have heard no firing it
                                    is not probable a fight has ensued indeed 
                              
                                 9 The aggregate killed, wounded, captured, or missing
                                            Union soldiers was 1,446. Ibid.
                           
                                     we should undoubtedly have heard the artillery
                                    if one had occurred In consequence of the rain have kept quiet in camp to day
                                    & for the most part in tent
                        Wednesday March 11th This morning Capt Bassett received a letter from Adjutant Adams
                                    that the enemy had fallen back from Spring Hill in such a hurry as to leave 13 of
                                    our wounded boys whom they paroled & left & that I had better come
                                    to 
                                        Franklin
                                     at once Went to 
                                        Franklin
                                     but learned little more than was known before except that Col &
                                    Major visited the wounded after the battle & were uninjured Made arrangement
                                    to go tomorrow and exhume the dead & try & Identify them &
                                    returned to camp
                        Thursday March 12 Started this morning at 4.45 A.M. for 
                                        Franklin
                                     to go to the battle field left 
                                        Franklin
                                     at 8 A.M. arrived at the battle field 9 45 A.M. disinterred 25 bodies
                                    in one pit None of them could be identified as 19th men 3 or 4 33 & as many
                                    85 Ind were identified & afterwards 5 were found in another place one of
                                    which [name omitted] Co C. from Batavia was identified returned to camp exceedingly
                                    weary Rec.d 4 letters from wife to night fair Day
                        Friday Mar 13 Am tired & sore to day have Diarrhoea & generally feel
                                    out of time with some head ache to night Capt B. [Bassett] had the men called out
                                    they came without guns perhaps 40 not more than 50 certainly they paid very little
                                    attention to the call to turn out Fair day
                        Saturday Mar 14th To day Capt Duffies Son (Malcolm) received a letter from his father
                                    dated 
                                        Shelbyville
                                        Tenn
                                     March 9th Saying that our boys were there & paroled &
                                    to be sent north in a. few days Fair day This little light lifts the gloom a little
                                    Adams came up to see us to day from 
                                        Franklin
                                     he finds us very much demoralized Capt B has as little control as ever
                                    over the men
                        Sunday March 15 In camp to day & in Some distress from an attack of diorrhoea
                                    have kept very still having been in bed or on it most of the day have been falling
                                    off in flesh from these continuous attacks of this disease If they continue shall be
                                    compelled by a sense of duty to my family to offer my resignation Wind south to day
                                    & looking like rain
                        Monday 16th March Better to day Diorrheoa checked but feel somewhat languid another
                                    Fair day ground drying up Saw Elder leaves to day which were out of bud &
                                    peach trees on which the blossoms were bursting through the bud & were
                                    visable Adams returned to his Regt to day This eve rode out with him & Capt
                                    Bassett to see whether there ought be any change in the picket Stations
                        Tuesday March 17 Another fair day indeed So warm that coats were burdensome in the
                                    Middle of the day Matters here are far from going to my liking we have very little
                                    Subordination If matters do not change we shall become a laughing Stock When I look
                                    at things as they are & remember what this fine Regt once was I
                                        am Sick
                        
                        Wednesday March 18th Fair this morning but towards noon it began to cloud up
                                    & indicated rain this P.M. it occasionally rains a few drops Everything
                                    about camp Just as usual men Shooting when they please despite positive orders from
                                    Div Hd Quarters & the  men riding the
                                    mules about when & where they please The All 
                                        Wise
                                     only knows when there will be a change
                        Thurs March 19th everything as yesterday Adams went to 
                                        Nashville
                                     yesterday & does not return to day—Fair day again
                        Friday March 20 Another fine day Adams came back to day about noon—No
                                    change in our affairs
                        Saturday March 21st Fine day Turner received orders to day to turn over 5 teams to
                                    Div Q.M. a strong disposition to set at naught Capt Bs authority to day & he
                                    falters & is afraid to meet the case & punish it Oh for better
                                    things
                        Sunday March 22d Cloudy this morning looks & feels like rain
                        Monday March 23 In Camp
                        Tuesday Mar 24 In Camp
                        Wednesday Mar 25 Taken prisoner this morning about 8 A.M & marched rapidly
                                    off
                        Thursday Mar 26th At 3 A.M. were permitted two hours rest which the boys improved At
                                    5 AM were aroused from our heavy sleep on the ground by the order into line
                        Friday Mar 27th Left Williamport at about 9 A.M. for 
                                        Columbia
                                    
                        
                        Saturday March 28th Was exceedingly weary last night but am much better than I
                                    expected this morning Some rain during the night & cloudy but warm this
                                    morning Quietly to day at the Nelson Hotel & enjoyed the rest
                        Sunday Mar 29th Cold & cloudy this morning So that a fire is very comfortable
                                    will probably leave 
                                        Columbia
                                     this morning or to at farthest for 
                                        Shelbyville
                                     were told yesterday that we should start at 1 P.M. Started at near 3 PM
                                    came 8 miles toward Louisburg [Lewisburg, Tenn.] & camped at at Dusk Slept
                                    about 2 hours found it cold
                        Monday Mar 30th Rations issued to the men this morning Started at 8.30 A.M. Men
                                    marched well Cold & Cloudy with occasionally some sleet or hail Marched over
                                    a considerable barren rocky cedar hill mere ledges of Rocks came to Farmington at
                                    about 3 P.M. & camped the men in the cedar brush the Staff officers in an
                                    old house but much better than in the Storm Dr Bennett was permitted to go out.
                                    & hunt us some supper got a good Supper
                        Tuesday Mar 31st Slept comfortably last night awoke at 3 A.M & got up at
                                    Daybreak got breakfast at the Same place as that at which we supped Marched 18 miles
                                    & camped 3 miles east of 
                                        Shelbyville
                                    
                        
                        Wednesday April 1st Slept badly last night from cold got up at 4 AM got breakfast
                                    & Started soon after Sunrise & reached Tulahoma about 3 P.M. went to
                                    the Adj Genls office with Surgeon Chapl Pilsbury were told that Chaplains would be
                                    unconditionally released Surgeons would be released Some Citizens who were along
                                    were to be treated as prisoners of war Just evening they came & gave the
                                    chaplains the liberty of the town which we improved by going out & getting a
                                    good Supper at a Mrs Nortons
                        Thursday April 2 Arose at 4 A.M. went over to Mrs Nortons & got Breakfast
                                    after which the Inspector Genl gave us (that Pillsbury & self) an
                                    unconditional release & transportation to Vicksburg the Balance of men
                                    & officers except Surgeons were sent to Chatanooga  at 7 A.M. we left 9 A.M. on passenger train passed
                                    Decherd at 9.30 passed a mountainous country & arrived at 
                                        Chattanooga
                                     at 4 P.M left in 30 minutes for 
                                        Atlanta
                                     were we arrived at 
                                        Atlanta
                                     at 2.30 AM
                        Friday Apr 3 Left 
                                        Atlanta
                                     at 5.30 A.M. for West Point [
                                        Georgia
                                    ] this road has fine cars which I improved by Sleeping & hence
                                    saw little of the country In general it appeared a pleasant Section Came to 
                                        Montgomery
                                     [
                                        Alabama
                                    ] at 7 P.M. & went to Hotel expecting to Stay all night There
                                    learned that we must go by Boat to Selma Took a hack & hurried to the levee
                                    where we arrived Just in time took berths at $3.00 each got Supper
                                    & went to bed
                        Saturday April 4th Reached Selma at 61/2 AM
                                    & went immediately to the cars left Selma at 7.40 AM & reached
                                    Demopolis at 10.30 here we took boat 4 or 5 miles down the river (Tombigbee) to
                                    McDowels Landing got a good Dinner & in about an hour reached the landing
                                    where took cars again for Meridian [
                                        Mississippi
                                    ] arrived at 5 P.M. & found no train for Vickburg till 7 A.M.
                                    tomorrow went to the Burton House & obtained Supper & room &
                                    went to bed had a poor rest was to weary & nervous to Sleep Soundly not much
                                    town & not quite as good accommodation as might be found in many places
                        Sunday April 5th Breakfasted & went to the train & left a few minutes
                                    past 7 AM for Vickburg God Speed us on in his mercy I feel doubly bound to go to
                                    Vickburg as soon as the thing can be done We have no business in the South now but
                                    to get out of it as soon as possible Came to Jackson between 5 & 6 &
                                    left a few minutes after G PM arrived at Vickburg 11.45 P.M. Went to the 
                                        Washington
                                     Hotel took a room & went to bed weary enough
                        Monday Apr 6 Took breakfast at 7.30 AM & went to the provost Marshalls office
                                    & reported to him. He directed us to Maj Watts office as he (W.) had charge
                                    of all matters of exchanges The Major informed us he would deliver us to Genl
                                    Sherman tomorrow Meantime we were to be sent to the Hotel & would be
                                    confined to our room We were accordingly taken back to the Same Hotel at which we
                                    passed the night & assigned a room & they left us to our honor to
                                    Stay there our meals are sent to our room rested well to day & went to bed
                                    early
                        Tuesday Apr 7th Arose at 5.45 AM had breakfast 7.30 & are ready to go if it
                                    pleases the Confederate authorities to Send us within the federal lines The orderly
                                    appeared at a little after 8 & requested us to be ready & a little
                                    before 9 we Started went about a mile up the river to their water batteries Where we
                                    were taken in boat manned by Six oarsman rowed about 4 miles when the Steamer
                                    Odd-fellow came down & took us aboard & we were after 14 days again
                                    [in] the protection of the Stars & Stripes Steamed back up to the fleet
                                    & met Genl Grant whose head Qrs are at Milikens bend 25 miles above Vickburg
                                    but who was down to the fleet to day Gen Grant issued a Special order diricting us
                                    to proceed to our respective homes & report to Gen Rosecrans & Col
                                    Hoffman Sup of exchanged prisoners at 
                                        Washington
                                    
                                    
                                        D.C.
                                     any information we might have & for orders & directing
                                    the Q.M.S Department to furnish the necessary transportation  Went [to] the Qu M got transportation to 
                                        Memphis
                                     & went on board the Steamer Magnolia & little before
                                    Sundown Started up the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     got supper, a berth & went to bed
                        Wednesday Apr 8th Had a poor nights rest rose a little before Six & went out
                                    on Deck Slept an hour after dinner read a little in Harpers Monthly &
                                    retired at about 10 P.M. boat expected to reach 
                                        Memphis
                                     tomorrow morning
                        Thursday Apr 9th Rested Better last night rose at 5.30 AM washed took an airing on
                                    Deck before breakfast which comes of on the boat a little after 7 A.M. Reached 
                                        Memphis
                                     about 10 A.M. where we shall probably be detained till near night Went
                                    to the trasportation office & got transportation to Cairo & then to
                                    the provost Marshals office & got our passes bought 
                                        Chicago
                                     papers of the 7th & went on board again 
                                        Memphis
                                     is pleasantly Situated on a high bluff the first we have seen since we
                                    left Vicksburg both shores between being low most of the way requiring a levee to
                                    prevent over flow there are many deserted & burned plantations Some with
                                    levees cut & the plantations mostly under water, left 
                                        Memphis
                                     at 7 P.M. took Supper & retired at 9.30
                        Friday April 10th Slept better last night than Since I have been on the boat My room
                                    previously had been directly over the engine Yesterday was assigned a new one in the
                                    ladies Cabin had less noise & less Jar & Shake rose at 6.
                                    Breakfasted a little after 7 Made New Madrid at 12 M & left Island No 10 at
                                    2 P.M. expect to reach Cairo at 8 or 9 this eve Arrived at Cairo at 7.45 PM
                                    procurred transportation & went to the R.R. Station to await the train at
                                    3.30 AM to morrow
                        Saturday Apr 11th Slept none last night did not even lay down at 3 A.M. got tickets
                                    & took seats in the cars left at 3.30 took breakfast at Centralia at 9 A.M
                                    114 miles from Cairo took dinner at Urbanna between 3 & 4 arrived at 
                                        Chicago
                                     at 9.30 P.M. parted here with Chaplain Pillsbury & went
                                    immediately to 
                                        Mich
                                     Southern Depot & ascertained that no train left to night but
                                    that a Stock train would leave to morrow at 10 A.M. Went back to the Sherman House
                                    & took a room & went to bed
                        Sunday Apr 12 Slept till near 8 this morning took breakfast & went
                                    immediately to the Southern Freight Depot & from there to the Stock Yard
                                    where at 10 I took a Stock train with the prospect of getting home at Midnight
                        Monday April 13 one A.M. home & found the family all well not having heard
                                    anything of my whereabouts since the capture on the 25 of march
                        Monday May 4th have been at home for past 3 weeks Received orders last tuesday to
                                    Report at Camp Chase 
                                        Ohio
                                     & left at 1.10 PM to day arrived in 
                                        Detroit
                                     at 6.20 Supper at the 
                                        Franklin
                                     called on Col Howard U.S.A. paymaster to see about pay but could get
                                    nothing out of money went round to Woodard Avenue Church & saw Arnold went
                                    to his house & stayed the night
                        Tuesday May 5 Went this morning to Capt Lee's office & got my
                                    transportation Via 
                                        Cleveland
                                     Steamers C.C.C.R.R. to 
                                        Columbus
                                     very rainy spent the day with Arnold & took Steamer May Queen
                                    at 8 P.M.  Very dark did not start till after
                                    9.30 when I went to bed left some time in the night
                        Wednesday May 6th Arose at 6 A.M. lake a little rough came to anchor soon after in
                                    Pigeon Bay Breakfast about 7 left anchorage at 5 P.M. went a little distance found
                                    it very rough Shipped a heavy sea which injured the boat & turned back to
                                    Maiden where we arrived at 9.30 P.M. At 11 Signaled the Steamer Morning Star
                                    & were all transfereed to that Steamer & at 12.30 were off for 
                                        Cleveland
                                    
                        
                        Thursday May 7th Reached 
                                        Cleveland
                                     at 8 A.M. & went to the American house to await the train at
                                    2.15 PM being to late for the morning train got breakfast at a little after 9
                                    A.M.—At 1.40 PM left Hotel & went to Depot The telegraph brings
                                    bad news from Hooker's Army God pity us if the Army of the Potomac is
                                    always to be beaten by the rebels
                        June 8th 1863 Left Camp Chase at 1 O clock P.M. came to 
                                        Columbus
                                     where the men were paid 4 months pay & then took cars for 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     at 7 45 P.M. reached 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     a little after 2 A.M. & went immediately to the boat Shenango
                                    left 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     about 6 A.M. & arrived at 
                                        Louisville
                                     about 7 p.m. Men went to Barracks & officers to Hotels. Col
                                    Adj’ Lt Col & self at Galt House
                        Wednesday June 10th Bot a mess Kettle & some traps in all 14 70 Some Dried
                                    Beef 331/2 lbs 4 30 at a Quarter before 7
                                    P.M. Started of L&N R.R. & at 7:30 PM where off for 
                                        Nashville
                                     Several of the Captains Some Lieuts & 20 or 30 privates were
                                    left behind as the train started without giving any warning
                        Thursday June 11th Are running slowly this morning get no breakfast & shall
                                    get nothing to eat till we get to 
                                        Nashville
                                     which we shall not reach till 3 or 4 P.M. reached 
                                        Nashville
                                     at 3.30 P.M. & went to the Commercial Hotel First
                                        Class in nothing but its charges
                        Friday June 12th Left the Hotel to day after dinner & went to camp near the
                                    Penitentiary got our supper spread blankets on the ground and lay down
                        Saturday June 13th Enjoyed a fine nights sleep on the ground Had a call to day from
                                    the Rev G. S. Brown formerly of 
                                        Mich
                                     Conf now Chaplain of the 86h 
                                        Ill
                                     Regt Saw yesterday Bro Curtis of the 
                                        Detroit
                                     conf chaplain of the 18th 
                                        Mich
                                     The Regt (ours) are drawing clothing, arms & camp equipage Made
                                    arrangements to preach tomorrow in a new building about 30 yds from camp had a short
                                    prayer meeting there this evening
                        Sunday June 14th Preaching this morning at 11 A.M. & at 5 PM a meeting to
                                    organize a camp church 14 gave their names. Was to have preached in a church this
                                    eve 
                                        Brown
                                     was to pilot me but we missed one another I went to the 
                                        Chattanooga
                                     Station & waited till 8 PM & as 
                                        Brown
                                     did not come I returned to camp
                        Monday June 15th In camp to day except going to town getting mail & getting
                                    some express arriving there one box sent by the ladies of plainwell containing
                                    Hospital stores which I requested to use at my discretion as our hospital had
                                    nothing in the line of dried fruits I turned over most of it to the hospital
                                    & kept for personal distribution so much as I could carry
                        
                        Tuesday June 10th Got up at 4 30 A.M & went to the city in the ambulance to
                                    market bought a few heads of lettuce & some stringed beans back at G A.M.
                                    After breakfast moved our Camp about 200 rods & got into the shade of some
                                    trees It has been very warm for the past 3 days.
                        Wednesday June 17 In Camp at 
                                        Nashville
                                    
                        
                        Thursday June 18 Left Camp for 
                                        Franklin
                                     this morning at half past 4 AM stopped about 2 hours at Little Harpeth
                                    & arrived at 
                                        Franklin
                                     at half past 4 P.M., 18 miles & went into camp tired but not
                                    excessively weary went to bed early
                        Friday June 19th After breakfast sallied out to find where Regt's mail went
                                    to Col Baird Head Quarters got no light but a little after noon found it at 78th 
                                        Ill
                                     found aplace where got at big prices some onions & Raddishes
                                    was offered a good supply of Buttermilk at 5 cents a Quart Sweet Milk at 10 cents a
                                    Quart some alarm to day Rebs said to be within 5 miles in force their Scouts are
                                    doubtless all around us 80 of them were at Brentwood an hour after we left it
                                    yesterday
                        Saturday 20th Was admonished at 11 O clock P.M. that rumor said that we were to be
                                    attacked tomorrow Morning
                        Sunday 21st The day passed off as usual without an attack Had singing &
                                    prayers in front of Head Quarters this eve at Sunset pickets Strengthened to day
                        Monday 22nd All Quiet to day
                        Tuesday 23d Col G. [Gilbert] Reed orders to Send the 78th 
                                        Ill
                                     33 Ind 5 & 7 
                                        Ky
                                     Cavy & 19th 
                                        Mich
                                     to triune immediately to report to the comg officer & if he
                                    should be gone to go on to Salin unless orders were left to the contrary by a
                                    staffofficer or an oficer Specially detailed for that purpose. Started at 2 P.M.
                                    & reached Triune at 8 Col. G. when near Triune was sent to 
                                        Franklin
                                     to take command of that post. left his trunk with me & took a
                                    few things in my satchel
                        Wednesday 24th Left Triune at about 2 P.M. in a Drenching rain 6 & 7th 
                                        Ky
                                     Cav & 33 Ind 78 Ill & 19 
                                        Mich
                                     Infty 1 Co 40 O.V.I. & 1 co 2d 
                                        Mich
                                     Cav with a waggon train of about 400 waggons Made about 3 miles by
                                    dark. As our Regt train was in the advance we had to lay down on the ground men
                                    mostly had their blankets I lay down after eating a roast potatoe a but of dried
                                    beef & a piece of hard Tact on my Cubber [sic] covered myself with part of
                                    it Slept Soundly
                        Thursday 25th Started at a little after Six Hard toiling—made about 6 or 7
                                    miles raining most of the [way] hard little to eat—laid down at dark in
                                    rain
                        Friday 26th Rained most of the night—got some wet—eat two
                                    boiled potatoes for my breakfast & we started made better time to day
                                    considerable rain to day Arrived at Murfreesboro about noon & got to camping
                                    ground about 2 PM.
                        Saturday 27th Slept on the ground in the mud but under tent for the two nights before
                                    had no covering feet so swollen this morning cannot get my boots on this morning
                                    They have been fighting for past 3 days in the front Col Gilbert Joined us again
                                    last evening on our arrivel here. Just after Supper we received orders to march to
                                         the front by the 
                                        Shelbyville
                                     pike to morrow at 5 A.M. Spent the evening in packing up &
                                    writing to my wife retired near 12 O clock
                        Sunday 28th Reviellee at 3 A.M. called the cook rose soon after Breakfast a little
                                    after 4. Started at 6 Saw Bro Patterson of 
                                        Michigan
                                     Conf as we passed through Murfreesboro. When 2 or 3 miles out Stopped
                                    to let the 5th & 6th 
                                        Ky
                                     Cav pass & for the other Infantry Regts (78th Ill & 33
                                    Ind) to come up. God defend us this day Halted a little after 8 A.M. Resumed the
                                    march at 20 minutes after 9 & came to end of this days march about 1 O clock
                                    P.M. (10 miles from Murfreesboro Went into Camp Genl Beard returned from the front
                                    soon after & called at our head Quarters Just evening Gen Granger with his
                                    force encamped for the night rained again most of this days march but a bright
                                    afternoon. Went to bed about 9 30 P.M.
                        Monday June 29th Bright this morning but But raining again before noon It has rained
                                    more or less every day & night for the past 7 ordered to march at 2 P.M. or
                                    rather we received the order at 2 P.M. to march immediately to 
                                        Shelbyville
                                    . 50 men were detailed to take prisoners & horses to
                                    Murfreesboro 3 P.M. we are having a heavy shower. All ready to start left a[t] 4
                                    P.M. & reached Guys Gap & went into camp Col. G. [Gilbert] took
                                    Quarters in a house I with him
                        Tuesday June 30th Remained Quiet to day a little rain this P.M.
                        Wednesday July 1st Bright & warm this morning wrote to wife & figured
                                    up the mess a/ for the past month- found the expense of living independent of the
                                    expense of mess furniture to be $2.05 per week. Not very costly.
                        Thursday July 2d Remained Quiet to day this P.M. received orders to detail 50 men to
                                    get out ties fox the R.R. which is to be put in running order to 
                                        Shelbyville
                                    . Last night reed a dispatch that the Rebs were evacuating Tullahoma
                                    & orders to send off all the cavalry now here & shelbyville to go in
                                    pursuit of the flying foe. No rain to day but very warm oppressively so. retired at
                                    9.30 P.M.
                        Friday July 3d Heavy shower again this morning rained most of the forenoon no news
                                    from home since the 16th of last month expect a mail to day Have had no Regtl mail
                                    since the 23th of June Went foraging for mess & bought a sheep for 5 cts a
                                    pound A train of 300 waggons passed our post to day on their way to Tullahoma. Roads
                                    in a terrible condition by the other route
                        Saturday July 4 Went to Murfreesboro to see. about mail learned little & got
                                    nothing but my dinner at Pattersons Chaplain of the 11th Mich. Returned to Camp:
                                    exceedingly wearied at 7 P.M.
                        Sunday 5th Exceedingly Sore to day. Yesterday Col's orderly & Adair
                                    of Co F while playing with guns very foolishly orderly gun was discharged the
                                    contents carrying away the right side of Adair's head. He died at 11 O
                                    clock last night, we buried him this evening at 5 P.M. It was a sad accident
                        Monday 6th Rumors to day that Vicksburg has surrendered & Lee's army
                                    has been defeated
                        Tuesday 7th Defeat of Lee's army confirmed
                        Wednesday 8 Surrender of Vicksburg confirmed & Lee's army utterly
                                    routed
                        Thursday 9th News of another battle on the Potomac Lee's army  routed & Panic Stricken 35000 prisoners
                                    & 60 cannon Said to have been taken 8000 arrived at Ba[l]timore Rode over to
                                    R.R. Station at New Fosterville Went to the creek & took a wash this eve
                        Friday July 10th Received a Small mail this morning & sent mail to
                                    Murfreesboro by the guard to the waggon train
                        Sat July 11th At Guys Gap
                        Sunday 12th Guys Gap
                        Monday July 13 Quiet in camp
                        Tuesday July 14 In camp at Guys Gap
                        Wednesday July 15 Guys Gap
                        Thursday July 16th Quiet in camp
                        Friday July 17th Today Received orders to take the 19th 
                                        Mich
                                     one section of the 9th 
                                        Ohio
                                     & one Company of the 10th 
                                        Ohio
                                     Cavalry & take post at New Fosterville The balance of the
                                    Battery & the 33d Ind Started this evening for Murfreesboro
                        Saturday July 18th Left this morning at 6 O clock for New Fosterville 4 miles Distant
                                    arrived a little before 8 A.M. & pitched tents among the cedars.
                        Sunday July 19th Spent most of this day in looking for the body of Capt Dilley
                                    & one of his men of 33 Ind who is supposed to have been murdered about one
                                    mile from here on Friday evening last about 81/2 O clock10 Arrested several persons who are supposed to
                                    know about it or to be implicated in it. one Mrs Bennett Smith Mother of one of the
                                    supposed murders & Thos Brothers a supposed accomplice
                        Monday July 20th Still pursuing the object of yestedays search no trace of the body.
                                    Several others arrested & sent to Murfreesboro
                        Tuesday July 21st Two or three arrested to day — otherwise all Quiet
                        Wednesday July 22 Received orders to day to March to Murfreesboro as soon as releived
                                    by the 10 
                                        Ill
                                     who arrived about noon to day
                        Thursday July 23d Left for Murfreesboro this morning at 20 minutes before 6 Arrived
                                    about noon & went into camp south of the town
                        Friday July 24th Called on Pattison chaplain 11th 
                                        Mich
                                     very warm to day Learned that Chaplain 22d 
                                        Wis
                                     had tendered his resignation saw him at Depot on his way to Tullahoma
                                    to see about it
                        Saturday July 25th Rained a little this morning All Quiet was introduced to Hoover of
                                    the 
                                        Baltimore
                                     Conf who is Hospital Chaplain at Murfreesboro. He is boarding at
                                    Pattisons
                        Sunday July 26th, 1863 Went to church in town this morning heard an eastern man
                                    preach a moderately fair sermon a little stilted & pounding as though, he
                                    was trying to be very simple to get down to the capacity of the soldiers of which
                                    his congregation was composed preached this eve at same house from Prov 14.26 very
                                    moderate time Staid with Pattison at his house
                        Monday July 27 got up this morning about 6 with a bitter headache came to camp after
                                    breakfast went to town for the mail came back sick & went to bed
                                    considerable fever
                        
                           
                              10 The men mentioned were Captain Israel C. Dille and
                                        Private Lothario C. Jones. McBride, History of the Thirty-third
                                            Indiana Veteran Volunteer Infanrty …, 101.
                        
                        
                        Tuesday July 28th Sick high fever offered my resignation to day Wednesday July 29 A
                                    little better not so much fever & less soreness in the bowels
                        Thursday July 30th About as yesterday this morning
                        Friday July 31st A little better to day rode over to the city this morning back to
                                    camp weary
                        Saturday Augt 1st Not feeling as well today as yesterday went over to town &
                                    for the rest kept quiet
                        Sunday Augt 2d Went over to town to church with citizens heard a fair sermon with
                                    some fine passages Had Regtal service at 4 O clock. Went over to town this evening
                                    & [heard] Chaplain Walker of 
                                        Ill
                                     he was evidently embarrassed positions better than their presentation
                                    Col G. went to 
                                        Nashville
                                    
                        
                        Monday Augt 3d Went to Chaplains meeting this morning only 4 present nothing done
                                    Champion brought me a pair of under shirts & 2 pairs Drawers
                        Tuesday Augt 4th This morning went over the Stone River battle
                                    ground
                        Saturday 8th Have done nothing this week Health poor Surgeon has made out certificate
                                    of Disability which is now in the hands of Dr Hobbs Brigade Surgeon As soon as I get
                                    my pay shall Start it forward again It was returned a day or two since from Gen
                                    Grangers office for the certificate
                        Sunday 9th Regiment paid to day My pay for the 4 months ending with June 30th
                                    $465.00
                        Monday 10th Saw Dr Hobbs this morning & obtained my resignation &
                                    erased the date to which I had been paid (Feb 28) & inserted June 30th I
                                    beleive I did right in offering it & I trust it may now be more successful
                                    in its mission The weather has been warm (very) for several days with quite a breeze
                                    in the middle of the day but for which weather would be almost insufferable This
                                    afternoon at 4 O clock married Col J. G. Parkhurst of the 9th 
                                        Mich
                                     to Miss Josephine Reeves of Murfreesboro Parkhurst 39 years Miss Reeves
                                    20 Witnesses Col H. C. Gilbert & Capt H. B. Adams of Coldwater Mich
                        Tuesday 11th Have done nothing to day upon the whole feel a little better than
                                    yesterday
                        Wednesday 12th Quite unwell again to day, took on the Drs order Some Quinine
                                    & kept Quiet Dry & warm
                        Thursday July 13th Better to day. Went to town this morning & got the mail
                                    Dry & warm In camp this P.M. No letters from homo for 5 days past
                        Sunday 23d Preached this morning in town & at 5 P.M. Buried Danill Knapp of
                                    Co H. who died in Regtl Hospital this morning at 2 O clock This eve remained in camp
                                    & went to bed very weary Had a fair time in preaching to Soldiers this
                                    morning Not much liberty at the Funeral Had to stand in a burning
                                    sun—gave me a Headache
                        Monday 24th Went with Col Shafter & Mr Coddington of Leonidas 
                                        Mich
                                     to Stone River Battle ground returned about noon
                                    Headache & weary Heard this eve that there had been a fight on the Liberty
                                    pike about 6 miles from here got no particulars Save that Ambulance trains have been
                                    sent out to bring in Dead & wounded
                        Tuesday 25th In camp as usual Murfreesboro This evening  Bradford Co. K. from [place omitted] Died of Dysentery
                                    in Regtl Hospital
                        Wednesday 26th Bad headache this morning Slept little last night 1 P.M. Funeral of
                                    Bradford. Sent to 
                                        Nashville
                                     by Lt Col Crane 85th Ind to enquire after my papers & telegraph
                                    [for] me
                        Thursday 27th Cook Sick this morning orderly came & called me. Wanted to know
                                    who would get breakfast got up and prepared it my-self. Col Gilbert recd Telegraph
                                    that Lucy was dangerous & left for home
                        Friday 28th Went to Hospital in town this morning found Batten very sick. Will
                                    probably die—Seems indifferent to his fate. I fear does well appreciate
                                    his condition
                        Saturday 29th Have a headache all the time received letter from 
                                        Nashville
                                     that they are holding on to my resignation for a certificate that my
                                    ordnance accounts are all settled. A brilliant idea Truly Col Gilbert got a furlough
                                    for 15 days Batten Co A died this evening at 7 O clock at Hospital No 1 Murfreesboro
                        Sunday 30th Heard Patterson preach this morning after distributing books in the
                                    Hospital Buried Batten between 4 & 5 P.M. & preached this evening at
                                    7 O clock in town Came back weary & went to bed
                        Monday 31st Regular muster day to day. Regt mustered by Capt Haze Division Mustering
                                    officer considerable Headache still
                        Thursday Sept 1st 1863 Waked up this morning free from Headache prepared a paper
                                    setting for the state of things in regard to my resignation & asking for a
                                    leave of abscence pending action on the resignation shall forward it to morrow if I
                                    get nothing further on the Subject
                        Wednesday Sept 2 Sent in application for leave of abscence & sent to Capt
                                    Dickson a certificate from Regt Commander that I had no ordnance accounts
                        Thursday Sept 3 In camp had a bad night last night & felt indifferently to
                                    day Stayed at Pattersons in town for the night
                        Friday Sept 4 In camp feel better than yesterday
                        Saturday Sept 5th Received back my application for leave of abscence refused from
                                    Grangers office I think he lacks many qualities of a Gentleman
                        Sunday Sept 6th Slight attack of Diarrhoea this morning Distributed books &
                                    papers in the Hospital & kept Quiet till P.M. then went to the
                                    fortifications & preached at 31/2 O
                                    clock, then back to camp & went early to bed. Regt on picket
                        Monday Sept 7 ordered to remove our camp over near Depot on 
                                        Franklin
                                     pike All safely over before night Hd Qrs in house
                        Tuesday Sept 8th Quiet this forenoon after dinner went over with the mail from thence
                                    to Genl Steadmans Hd Qrs where I found my Resignation accepted Capt Moe A.A.G.
                                    delivered my copy to me returned to camp packed up & left on the train for 
                                        Nashville
                                    . Arrived at Nalittle before 6 got my papers all straight & went
                                    to bed slept but little
                        Wednesday Sept 9th Took cars at 7 for 
                                        Louisville
                                    . Col Gilbert & Capt Lincoln on the train for 
                                        Nashville
                                     passed it at Cave City arrived at 
                                        Louisville
                                     a little before 6 P.M. shall go home without waiting to get pay here
                                    got my tickets for 
                                        Salem
                                     crossing
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews and Notes
            
               David Ross—Modern Pioneer. By Fred C. Kelly.
                    (Alfred A. Knopf, 
                        New York
                    , 1946, pp. xv, 182. Illustrations and index. $3.00.)
            David Ross, White County farm- and small-town boy early showed an interest in machinery. As a result
                    of temperament rather than poverty or environment, he spent a fairly lonely boyhood. Although needed
                    on the farm, he entered Purdue in 1889. During the next four years he lived out, participated in no
                    organized activities, belonged to no defined group; he was merely one of the large background group,
                    from which often come distinguished individuals in later life. Ross’ record in academic
                    work was not outstanding, but he had time to think and he did.
            He persuaded his father he could manage the latter's large farm better on his own sole
                    responsibility; showed the community how drainage made productive land out of wet lands; organized a
                    telephone company; made friends. Dave, who had been reading all about automobiles and taking long
                    walks to think about them, invented and patented his first of many ideas—an improved
                    steering gear. Believing he was getting into a rut on the farm, he cut loose, found backing for his
                    ideas, and became the mainspring in the Ross Gear and Tool Company. The man developed with, and
                    ahead of the automobile industry; in time came a fortune.
            From membership on an alumni fund-raising committee to trustee to President of the Board, Dave
                    progressed. A deal with George Ade pooled business sense with fame—result the Ross-Ade
                    Stadium, a field house, in time the Purdue Memorial Union. But these were not his main interests.
                    Land, buildings a University had to have, and Ross was looking fifty years ahead (he could buy as an
                    individual what the institution would need later) but a University is not buildings; it is men and
                    ideas. "I believe in seeking new knowledge." Ross’ money was important
                    but his ideas were more so. His greatest monument is not a stadium (in which he sometimes sat not
                    knowing which team won) but the Purdue Research Foundation, a dream dear to his heart, and his
                    influence in getting others to see that a university should hold to its major goals. In this, of
                    course, he had important help, but he had the interest, the money and the  time. When some were amazed at his liberal gifts, he laughed and said,
                    "Some men keep race horses or women. I'd rather help support a
                    university." From his bachelor home "The Hills" he continued active as
                    "Trustee Extraordinary" and "Citizen Consultant," inventing,
                    improving and inspiring to the end, which came in 1943.
            Mr. Kelly has written simply, effectively and in keeping with Dave Ross’ personality. The
                    author might have given more of the history of Ross’ business, but has chosen to
                    emphasize his public services. When Bruce Rogers "of Indiana" (Purdue
                    ‘90), A. Colish, The Plimpton Press, the Meriden Gravure Company and Mr. Alfred A. Knopf
                    all combine their talents to the making of a book, one expects it to be a nice-looking book, a nice
                    book to handle. It is. Purdue, Indiana and points beyond should feel pleased with the result.
            R. Carlyle Buley
         
         
            
               Pioneer Sketches of the Upper Whitewater Valley, 
                            Quaker
                         Stronghold of the West. By Bernhard Knollenberg. (Volume XV, Number 1, Indiana
                    Historical Society, Publications, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, 1945, pp. 171. $0.75.)
            "I wrote this book because I was born and brought up in the Whitewater Valley and love it.
                    But I have a special reason for publishing it at this time. In 1908, Josiah Royce said in his Philosophy of Loyalty: ‘We need … in this country, a new and
                    wiser provincialism. … the sort of provincialism which makes people want to idealize
                    … their own province; to hold sacred its traditions, to honor its worthy
                    dead.’ ‘Further centralization of power in the national
                    government,’ he continues, ‘without a constantly enriched and diversified
                    provincial consciousness, can only increase the estrangement of our national spirit from its own
                    life.’ These words are even more apposite today."
            The author, who thus clearly stated his purpose, has carried out his intentions without falling into
                    the pitfalls which lay before him. The little volume which he produced is not strictly speaking a
                    history of the Whitewater Valley, although it is a historical account of many of the important early
                    developments.
            It begins with the forced withdrawal of the Indians and the arrival of the Friends in the upper
                    valley. Descriptions  of early social conditions, and the
                    establishment of local government, are followed by an account of the organization of the Friends
                    Church and the Underground Railroad. In a chapter entitled "Henry Clay makes a
                    Speech," the author is less cautious and critical, and indeed seems to leave the impression
                    that it was this speech that defeated 
                        Clay
                    . The Free Produce Movement, the Methodists, Joseph Tarkington, the National Road, the
                    Whitewater Canal, the coming of the Germans, Earlham College, the Gold Rush, and the arrival of the
                    Railroads are treated in successive chapters. The narrative stops at this point, but there is a
                    final chapter on a canoe trip down the Whitewater in 1940.
            Most of the chapters are written from a contemporary narrative or two, from which copious extracts
                    are quoted. The merits of the book include this revelation of the rich store of contemporary
                    materials and the thorough understanding which the author has of the valley. He has produced one of
                    those delightful little books which the reader wishes had been twice as long.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               Mid Country. Edited by Lowry C. Wimberly. (University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Publication, Thomas Y. Crowell Company, 
                        New York
                    , 1945, pp. xiv, 510. $3.50.)
            
               America is West—An Anthology of Middlewestern Life and
                        Literature. Edited by John T. Flanagan. (University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 
                  Minneapolis, Minnesota
               , 1945, pp. vi, 677. Map. $3.00.)
            Here in Mid Country are seventy-eight selections of "writings from the
                    heart of America." Although Mid Country is defined as "the land between the
                    mountains"—from the Appalachians to the Rockies, from the Lakes to the Gulf, the
                    great majority of the reprints presented deal with the great plains region. Many of them uphold the
                    idea contained in Glenway Wescott's definition of the region as "a certain
                    climate, a certain landscape; and beyond that, a state of mind of people born where they do not like
                    to live." Among the authors represented are such well-known names as J. Frank Dobie, James
                    Stevens, Marie Sandoz, Ruth Suckow, Walter Prescott Webb, and Jesse Stuart. Many of the pieces,
                    since they originally appeared in the regional and "little"  magazines, were missed by the general reader; this representative list
                    makes available some choice stories and essays. Likely as not several of the reader's
                    favorites will be the contributions of authors unknown to him. From the "Long-horn Blood
                    Call," "The Honey House," "They Set a Good Table,"
                    "The Snake Without a Friend" on through to "High Tension,"
                    "Stampede" and "They Shall Arise" the reader will pursue the
                    pieces with varying degrees of interest and appreciation, skipping few; those skipped he will
                    probably go back and read. The introduction by B. A. Botkin and the "notes on the
                    authors" give the setting and useful information.
            The anthology America is West deals with the Middle West, "the Heartland
                    of America," which has been somewhat arbitrarily defined by the editor as the twelve states
                    north of the 
                        Ohio
                     River and the southern boundaries of 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Kansas
                    . The introduction to the three-century-old literature of this region has been arranged
                    by the editor under eleven main groupings: Folklore and Legend, The Indian, Explorer and Traveler,
                    The Frontier, The Woods, The Farm, The River, The Small Town, The City, Middle-westerners, and
                    Interpretations. From Father Hennepin, Jonathan Carver and Alexander Henry to Carl Becker, Willa
                    Cather and Ruth Suckow, the reprints—mostly prose—have, in general, been made
                    from the works of authors whose life span coincided with the period written about.
            Naturally it is impossible to cover all important phases of the literature of the Middle West to say
                    nothing of its "life" in one volume. A work twice as large might have made
                    possible the inclusion of more material on the Indian, war, politics, pioneer life, education,
                    religion, health and medicine, amusements—all a part of life, if not of literature of the
                    Middle West. On these phases of life the reviewer misses particularly samples of stump oratory and
                    newspaper editorials, certainly among the most influential if not the most artistic of the
                    Midwesterner's literature. Nor is he reconciled to the editor's omission of 
                        Kentucky
                     as a part of the Middle West.
            As in Mid Country, the editor has used poetry sparingly. More of the selections are
                    from books, fewer are from contemporary magazine stories and articles. None knows the literature of
                    the Middle West better than Professor Flanagan 
                    —formerly of the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    , now of Southern Methodist—and on the whole he has selected wisely. The
                    reader of this "pageant of regional life" will mark some books and authors for
                    certain further exploration; many of the selections he will mark for rereading. Biographical
                    introductory sketches serve as valuable quick reference guides. For the reader acquainted with the
                    literature of the Middle West, this book is a pleasant and convenient volume; for the student or
                    reader just embarking upon its thrills, it is an indispensable asset.
            
               America is West, though a war-time publication, is well designed and attractively
                    printed. The reading public in general and Midwesterners in particular should commend the editor and
                    the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press for making available so much in so little—an incipient library in one
                    volume.
            R. Carlyle Buley
         
         
            
               Against the Current: The Life of Karl Heinzen (1809–80). By Carl Wittke. (University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 
                        Chicago
                    , 1945, pp. x, 342. Frontispiece, preface, bibliographical note, illustrations, and
                    index. $3.75.)
            Karl Heinzen, who came to the 
                        United States
                     with many other "Forty-eighters," was born in Grevenbroich in the
                    district of Düsseldorf, 
                        Germany
                    , February 22, 1809. This small town of the lower Rhine lay on the road traveled by
                    warring armies. When Heinzen was four years old, his mother died, and the next eight years were
                    spent with relatives. He was a problem child, and his record at the Gymnasium "was
                    essentially that of an unruly, prankish youngster who had brains enough but who would not submit to
                    discipline." Trouble seems to have been Heinzen's companion wherever he went.
            After the publication of his book on the Prussian administrative system, he left 
                        Germany
                    . "Prussia had become, in his mind, the symbol of feudal and medieval
                    obscurantism and absolutism, of intrigue, police, censorship, and broken promises." In
                    Brussels he met Ferdinand Freiligrath and Karl Marx. Later, he went to 
                        Switzerland
                     and there continued his pamphleteering which led to difficulties and finally forced him
                    out of this country.
            Heinzen kept a diary of his trip to America which was  published
                    in 1859 and 1860 in a series of articles in the Pionier under the caption of
                    "Two Voyages to America."
            Although Heinzen edited a number of papers, his better-known and more successful one was Der Pionier. It did not afford him sufficient satisfaction to be known only as journalist;
                    he sought recognition as a poet, a playwright, and an author of books. He was "frank,
                    blunt, uncompromising, and impervious to popular reactions." "He wrote as though
                    he could command the world from his editor's desk. He never pricked with a needle when he
                    could hit over the head with a hammer." He never enlisted in the Civil War because he had
                    more confidence in the use of his pen than the sword.
            Heinzen did not approve of unrestricted immigration because he was of the opinion that most
                    immigrants came to the 
                        United States
                     "not because of idealism but on account of empty stomachs." He
                    advocated a comprehensive examination in the geography, government, and history of the 
                        United States
                     and in the English language in place of the five-year residence requirement of
                    naturalization. He detested the German system of compulsory military training and attacked this
                    system in his "Thirty Articles of War for the New Day," and his German Soldiers’ Catechism, published on the eve of the Revolution of 1848. His
                    formula for world peace was to destroy all thrones and remove all monarchs.
            "Heinzen was an uncompromising, unbending, militant, radical republican, a crusader against
                    censorship, bureaucracy, militarism, and reaction in his native 
                        Germany
                    , a radical abolitionist, and a champion of equal rights for women and many other
                    political, economic, and social reforms in the 
                        United States
                    , which became his adopted fatherland in 1850 and in which he labored for thirty
                    years."
            This is not only an interesting but a scholarly biography. The author has done an excellent piece of
                    work, particularly, in the manner in which he has treated historical events related to the life of
                    Heinzen.
            Elfrieda Lang
         
         
            
               Meet Abraham Lincoln: Profiles of the 
                            Prairie
                         President. By G. Lynn Sumner. (Abraham Lincoln Book Shop, 
                        Chicago
                    , 1946, pp. 78. $5.00.)
            "This Book has been written, not for Lincoln scholars, 
                    but in the hope that it may prompt more people, especially young people, to become, in a modest way,
                    Lincoln students." So states the author in the first paragraph of his introduction. The
                    mature Lincoln follower will find nothing new between the covers of this publication; all the topics
                    here described have been treated before in innumerable reams of Lincolniana that preceded this
                    imprint. "Young people" who are inclined to read can spend a few profitable, and
                    even enjoyable, hours by a perusal of this work. People neither ancient nor juvenile will not find
                    their time entirely wasted by reading it.
            Sumner is a 
                        New York
                     advertising executive. Some twenty-four years ago he attended a performance of
                    Drink-water's "Abraham Lincoln" and went away an embryonic Lincoln
                    enthusiast and collector. This volume of essays marks him as a very definite Lincoln protagonist.
            The book contains five short essays: "Lincoln and His Books," "Lincoln and
                    the Women He Loved," "Lincoln and His Cabinet," "Lincoln and His
                    Generals," and "Lincoln and the Union." While none of the themes are
                    complete, the reviewer can say he enjoyed reading them. It is sometimes a relief to get away from
                    the ponderous, heavily-documented, and cumbersome Lincoln book and read one that is not at all
                    burdened with notes and references.
            The publishers are to be complimented on an excellent job of printing and binding. Not only have they
                    published the first Lincoln book of 1946 but also one that will surely "place" or
                    "show" in the field of attractive books for this year.
            Cecil K. Byrd
         
         
         
            Genealogy Section
            CLARK COUNTY MARRIAGE RECORDS, 1815–18201 (contd.)
            DOROTHY L. RIKER
            
            In some cases the date given in the records is the date of the marriage, while in other cases it is
                    the date of the marriage license, or the date of the certificate of marriage returned by the justice
                    of the peace or minister. In the following list the date of the marriage is indicated by
                    "M," the date of the marriage license by "L," and the date of
                    the certificate by "C."
            
               John Aston to Priscilla Hoke, C, 6–25–1815, by Richard Aston.
               Ezekiel Kennedy to Seanah Davis, C, 6–15–1815, by same.
               Jeremiah Sanders to Priscilla Samuels, C, 4–14–1815, by same.
               John Wood to Susannah Whitaker, C, 5–10–1815, by same.
               Abraham Rouiene to Lydia Rizley, C, 7–2–1815, by same.
               Thomas R. Johnson to Mary Thompson, L, 8–15–1815.
               John Reece to Jemina Russell, C, 6–15–1815, by Charles Johnson.
               John Bartholomew to Nancy McNaught, L, 8–22–1815.
               Bennett Garry to Sarah Bowman (widow), L, 8–25–1815.
               John Bottorff to Elizabeth Stonesifer, L, 8–29–1815, by John G.
                        Pfrimmer.
               Joseph Adams to Keziah Sillivan (or Sullivan), L, 9–3 (?)-1815.
               William H. Lilly to Matilda C. Twilley, L. 9–9–1815.
               Brown Wilson to Susanna Blackburn, C, 9–9–1815, by Samuel Patterson.
                        Timothy Grant to Amelia Roberts, C, 10–1–1815, by James Davis.
               Aschail (?) Brant to Abigail Stewart, C, 10–2–1815.
               William Bull (or Ball?) to Esther Goodwin (widow), L,
                        10–9–1815, by Willis W. Goodwin.
               Alvah Porter to Mary Smith, L, 10–20–1815.
               William Cunningham to Elizabeth Pearson, L, 10–23–1815.
               David Feild to Elizabeth Daily, L, 10–29–1815, by John Todd.
               Leven Howard to Catherine Gresmore, L, 11–30–1815, by George Ross.
               John Whelchel (?) to Polly Whelchel, L, 11–30–1815.
               Samuel Warden to Sarah Sigman, L, 12–2–1815.
               Abraham Razor to Jane Mourie, C, 10–2–1815, by Richard Aston.
               William Cochran to Deborah Edwards, C, 10–26–1815, by same.
               Henry Bar to Martha Lamaster, C, 12–21–1815, by William Lockhart.
               Ely Stark to Polly Stark, C, 9–21–1815, by same.
               David Bloom to Sarah Gelwick, L, 12–31–1815, by Waller Taylor.
               Willis Brumback to Nancy Lane, C, 12–26–1815, by Samuel Patterson.
               Barzillai Willey to Mary Montgomery, L, 1–3–1816.
               John Reynolds to Rebecca Patrick, L, 1–3–1816, by George Ross. 
                     
                        1 Continued from the March, 1945, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History. Compiled from microfilm copies of 
                                    Clark County
                                , Indiana, Marriage Records, Vol. A, made for the Historical Records Survey
                                in 1936, and deposited in the Archives Division of the Indiana State Library.
                  
               
               
               John Russell to Rachel Norris, L, 1–10–1816, by William Goodwin.
               Samuel McCampbell to Jane Tilford, M, 2–1–1816, by James Scott.
               James B. Atwood to Sarah Barnes, M, 2–9–1816, by John Reece.
               Henry Pottorff [Bottorff?] to Phebe Crume, L, 2–12–1816.
               Joseph Kinkade to Sarah Ruddell, L, 2–24–1816.
               John Fultz to Nancy Nicholson, L, 2–24–1816, by George Ross.
               Rawson Robbins to Rebecca Green, C, 5–11–1815, by Joseph Bower.
               Jacob Hooker to Betsey Poole, C, 10–12–1815, by same.
               Benjamin Curtis to Hannah Brenton, C, 11–9–1815, by same.
               Enoch Starks to Gily Carril, C, 2–22–1916, by same.
               James Paries (?) to Grissy Reid, L, 3–8–1816, by James Scott.
               Samuel Stewart to Elizabeth Cavendor, L, 3–8–1816, by John Miller.
               Peter Storm to Catherine Ferguson, C, 1–8–1816.
               Mathew Virgin to Rooksey Carey Lane, C, 3–24–1816, by Samuel Patterson.
               William Hughes to Margarette Cooper (dau. of Elizabeth Cooper), L,
                        4–13–1816.
               William Sale to Elizabeth Joyes, L, 4–22–1816, by John Todd.
               Jacob McClane to Patsey Covert, C, 4–2–1815, by John Deitz.
               Jacob [illeg.] to Catherine Applegate, C, 7–16–1815, by same.
               John Goodwin to Palina Jenkins, L, 4–25–1816, by W. W. Goodwin.
               Reuben, Norton to Mary Newland, L, 5–2–1816.
               Joseph Brown to Elizabeth Fisler, L, 5–2–1816.
               John Pbwer (?) to Hannah Lamb, C, 1–27–1816, by David
                        Fanisin.
               William Oard to Sarah Bullock, L, 5–11–1816.
               William L. Muir to Polly Hester, L, 5–11–1816, by John Todd, M.G.
               Alexander Vanskiver to Mary Ann Scags, L., 5–16–1816, by John Prather.
               Isaiah Vermillion to Tillithy Akers, L, 5–19–1816.
               William Garner to Sarah Robertson (dau. of Col. Robertson), L,
                        5–29–1816.
               James Fuller to Catherine Ward, M, 6–16–1816, by Willis W. Goodwin.
               Henry Hopkins to Elizabeth Biggs, L, 6–18–1816.
               Solomon. Kenieppe to Nancy Roark, L, 6–18–1816, by John Prather.
               Aaron O. Belding to Sarah Fislar, L, 7–1–1816.
               James Snow to Elizabeth Johnson, L, 7–10–1816, by John Reese.
               Abraham Burt to Sarah Harvey, L, 7–19–1816.
               Isaac DeWitt to Sarah Hickman, L, 8–2–1816.
               Isaac Kimbley to Margarette Fait, L, 8–16–1816, by Andrew Bowman, M.G.
               Archibald Foster (?) to Lucy Duson, L, 9–1–1816, by James
                        McCampbell.
               Joseph Puckett to Minny (or Winny?) Huffman, L, 9–25–1816.
               Leonard H. Jenkins to Susanna Prather (dau. of B. Prather, Sr.), L,
                        10–2–1816.
               William Prather, Jr. (son of Walter Prather) to Sarah Hilton, L,
                        10–25–1816, by John Prather.
               Charles R. Waring to Mary Archer, L, 10–25–1816, by James Scott.
               John Meickinley (?) to Wallhay Kail (?), C,
                        8–25–1816, by David Fanisin.
               Thomas Ryon to Cinthia Newland (dau. of George Newland), L, 11–2–1816.
               John Kieling to Catherine Kieling, L, 11–9–1816, by Andrew Gelwick.
               William S. Marsh to Sarah Butler (widow), L, 11–17–1816.
               
               William L. Hobson to Nancy Cunningham, C, 11–25–1816, by Absalom
                        Littell, Jr.
               William Linkler to Polly Barnett, L, 12–7–1816, by Spencer Houghland.
               John Lamb to Jane Wills, L, 12–11–1816, by Thomas Akers.
               Simon Veney to Sarah Smith (people of colour), L, 12–14–1816.
               Isaac Worrall to Jane Houghland, L, 12–19–1816, by Spencer Houghland.
               Samuel C. Tate to Sarah Lucas, L, 1–7–1817, by John Todd, M.G.
               Patrick Robertson to Lavina Sills, L, 1–8–1817.
               James B. Nickles to Susa V. Rogers, L, 1–11–1817.
               Charles W. Stilwell to Hannah Beggs (dau. of John Beggs), L, 2–3–1817.
               William Heath to Margarette Lewis (widow), L, 2–13–1817.
               Thomas Richardson to Catherine Huffman (dau. of widow Huffman), L,
                        2–15–1817.
               William Wyatt to Nancy Stewart, L, 2–21–1817, by John Todd, M.G.
               Moses Sellers to Margarette Littell (dau. of A. Littell Esq.), L,
                        2–22–1817, by John Wilson.
               Walter Moring to Margarette Bland, L, 2–24–1817, by David Fanisin.
               George Pry to Hannah Cups, L, 2–25–1817.
               Joseph Sullivan to Susa Henderson (dau. of John Henderson), L, 3–1–1817,
                        by Samuel Patterson.
               John Carr to Mary Neal, L, 3–3–1817, by James Scott.
               Gabriel Bell to Molly Akers (dau. of Simon Akers), L, 3–6–1817, by
                        Thomas Akers.
               Joseph Jones to Mary Graham, L, 3–8–1817.
               John Boulder to Rebecca Dorel (dau. of James or Joseph Dorel), L,
                        3–14–17.
               Bennet Gore to Charity Smith, L, 3–20–1817, by Richard Aston.
               James Nesmith to Mary G. Kimball, L, 3–27–1817, married April 6, by
                        George White.
               Harper Cochran to Lydia Collings (dau. of Wm. E. L. Collings), L,
                        3–29–1817, married April 3 by Jonathan Stark.
               Frederick Cotner to Betsey Romain, L, 3–31–1817, by Lemuel Ford.
               John Clark to Elizabeth James (dau. of George James), L, 4–11–1817, by
                        Spencer Houghland.
               Daniel Signer to Polly Abbett, L, 2–23–1817, by David Fanisin.
               Thomas T. Tunstall to Sarah Worrall, L, 4–23–1817, by John Prather.
               William Cavender to Rosanna Holt, L, 4–23–1817, by same.
               John Weathers to Elizabeth Thompson, L, 4–24–1817, by George White.
               Hezekiah Bartley to Polly Jacobs (dau. of Jeremiah Jacobs), L,
                        4–29–1817.
               Andrew Shaw to Elizabeth Matson, L, 5–1–1817, by George White.
               William Compton to Lucy Davis, L, 5–1–1817.
               Francis Porter to Margarette Glass, L, 5–2–1817, by Lemuel Ford.
               Samuel Calloway to Jane Stewart, L, 5–12–1817, by John Carr.
               Edwin Baine to Mary Kaufman, C, 4–21–1817, by Spencer Houghland.
               George Shull to Rebecca Pile (dau. of Thomas Pile), L, 5–21–1817, by
                        George White.
               John Tippin to Jcnney Rock, C, 5–29–1817, by John Carr.
               Benjamin Hughes to Elizabeth Howard (dau. of Elizabeth Howard), L,
                        6–18–1817.
               
               William Bloomfield to Mary E. Furland, L, 6–21–1817, by George White.
               Names (?) Hooker to Mary Rush, L, 6–24–1817.
               Christopher Chapman to Matilda Tingle, L, 7–7–1817.
               John Robins to Polly Dovril (?), C, 1–1–1807
                        [1817?] by Joseph Bower.
               John Bouldin to Rebecca Dovril (?), C, 3–9–1817, by same.
               Richard Pokes to Rebecca Mannon, C, 2–10–1817, by same.
               John R. Clark to May (?) Akin, widow of William, L,
                        7–14–1817.
               Silas Keerns to Susannah Boyles, L, 7–14–1817, by Thomas Akers.
               Peter Etter to Tamar Cooke, C, 5–15–1817, by Joseph White.
               John Sell (or Sele) to Priscilla McCutchen, L, 8–3–1817, by Thomas
                        Akers.
               Andrew Ferguson to Elizabeth Preist, C, 8–7–1817, by Samuel Patterson.
               Joseph Erwin (son of John [?] Erwin) to Margaret Penny (dau. of John Penny), L,
                        8–29–1817.
               Daniel Stutsman to Catherine Allhands (dau. of John Allhands), L,
                        9–1–1817, by Joseph Bower.
               John Detzler to Margret Giltner, L, 9–2–1817.
               Jacob Garrison to Elizabeth Rickets, L, 9–6–1817, by Barzillai Willey.
               Elijah Carr to Nancy Gray, L, 9–16–1817, by Amos Goodwin.
               Andrew Spear to Nancy Spear, L, 9–24–1817, by John Carr.
               George Russell to Betsey Russell (widow), C, 9–13–1817, by Joseph Bower.
               Mathew Cowley to Mary Kirk, L, 10–6–1817, by John M. McClung.
               Joseph Work to Elvy Dunn, L, 10–7–1817.
               Abraham Kaufman to Phoebe Kuykendall, L, 10–11–1817, by John Carr.
               Hugh Kelly to Polly Allhands, L, 10–16–1817.
               James M. Keithley to Nancy Kendall, L, 10–18–1817.
               Samuel Moore to Sarah Weir, L, 10–20–1817, by James Scott.
               Samuel McCutchan to Nancy Wells, L, 10–21–1817, by Thomas Akers.
               Daniel Robertson to Margret Teeple, L, 10–21–1817, by Lemuel Ford.
               Christian Detzler to Mary Ann Smallwood, L, 10–29–1817.
               Hugh K. Howell to Sarah Lewis, L, 10–30–1817.
               Peter Hederick to Elizabeth Tenion, C, 10–4–1817, by Samuel Patterson.
               Robert Erwin to Isabella McNuaght, L, 11–3–1817, by William Goodwin.
               Benjamin Ferguson to Sarah Hay, L, 11–5–1817, by James Scott.
               John Corwin to Roxsana Reed, C, 8–14–1817, by Joseph Whitcomb.
               James Narrington to Keziah Storms, C, 9–14–1817, by same.
               Louis Alohouse St Martin De Lacoderice (?) to Thereze Oimce Audeberd, both natives
                        of 
                            France
                        , C, 11 [10]-6–1817, by Joseph Whitcomb, returned October 18.
               William Reed to Nancy Pounds, L, 11–17–1817, by James Scott.
               Francis Huff to Elizabeth Newland, L, 11–19–1817.
               Jason Parmenter to Mary Applegate, L, 11–19–1817, by John Prather.
               Solomon Sanders to Ellesout (?) Gallamore, C, 11–2–1817, by
                        Joseph Bower.
               Benjamin Carter to Martha Greene (sister of William), L, 11–20–1817, by
                        John Prather.
               William C. Drew to Maria G. Armstrong, L, 11–24–1817, by William
                        Burkley, M.G. on November 25.
               Daniel Fletcher to Tyna Kennady, L, 11–25–1817, by George White.
               John H. Ferry to Christina Alison, L, 11–25–1817, by same.
               
               James, Scribner to Mary Scribner, L, 11–28–1817.
               Valentine Davis to Rebecca Davis, L, 11–28–1817.
               Benjamin Brewer to Sarah Parks, L, 12–5–1817.
               Isaac Nappiers to Nancy Held, L, 12–13–1817, by John Prather.
               David Forsythe to Jane Crumley, L, 12–15–1817, by John Todd.
               David McBride to Mary Ross, L, 12–18–1817, by James Garner, M.G.
               Daniel Baker to Sally Kailor, C, 12–21–1817, by John T. Little.
               John Johnson to Milly Bower (dau. of A. Bower), L, 12–23–1817, by Samuel
                        Patterson.
               William Green to Elizabeth Cooper (widow), L, 12–31–1817.
               Isham Curtis to Susannah Parker (black couple), 1–3–1818.
               William Smith to Elenor Cumings, C, 12–17–1817, by Jonathan Stark.
               Nathan Blizard to Catherine Epler, L, 1–6–1818.
               John Brenton to Catherine Bullock, L, 1–10–1818.
               George Demar to Vickey Howard (people of color), L, 1–14–1818, by George
                        White.
               John Yuston to Nancy Cox, L, 1–16–1818.
               Moses Houghland to Sarah Cox, L, 1–19–1818, by Jonathan Stark.
               John Ferguson to Elizabeth Edwards, C, 12–7–1817, by Jacob Peirsol.
               John, Wright to Fanny Dover, L, 2–4–1818.
               John Crawford to Elizabeth Benard, L, 2–15–1818, by Joseph Bower.
               Samuel Stark to Anna McCleary, C, 1–22–1818, by Samuel Patterson.
               Henry Lawrence to Jane Felps, C, 1–3–1818, by same.
               Adam Holt to Nancy Welsh, L, 2–17–1818, by George White.
               Henry L. Miner to Elizabeth Kerney, L, 2–17–1818, by John Todd.
               William Pettet to Ellen Rush, L, 2–19–1818.
               William Smith to Elizabeth Roby, L, 2–19–1818, by John, Prather.
               Joseph Carr to Nancy Drummond, L, 2–24–1818, by Amos Goodwin.
               Reuben H. Hughes to Catherine Patrick, L, 2–25–1818.
               Thomas Mounts to Mary Scott, L, 3–14–1818, by John Prather.
               Patrick Leyden to Mary Edwards, L, 3–7–1818, by Jacob Pearsall.
               Benjamin Figg, to Elizabeth Cassady, L, 3–7–1818, by Jeremiah Stilwell.
               Abel Short to Laura Jacob, L, 3–7–1818, by Samuel Patterson.
               William Jacob to Elizabeth Mathews, L, 3–7–1818, by same.
               John Cleghorn to Elizabeth Marsh, L, 3–18–1818, by Amos Goodwin.
               Dorus Marton to Pluina Slayton, L, 3–26–1818.
               John Sherley to Nancy Fowler, L, 4–6–1818, by Jacob Pearsall.
               William Nicholson to Margarette Wilson (stepdaughter of J. Smith), L,
                        4–7–1818, by John Carr.
               Thomas Sinex to Flora West (dau. of H. West), L, 4–13–1818, by Joseph
                        Whitcomb.
               William Lang to Jinny Mize, L, 4–16–1818, by Jacob Pearsall.
               John Reagan to Amy Garner, L, 4–21–1818, by Amos Goodwin.
               Samuel Tibbit to Patsy Lawrence, L, 4–23–1818, by Lemuel Ford.
               Benjamin Middleton to Margaret Heartman, L, 4–30–1818, by Samuel
                        Patterson.
               James Allbrittain to Nancy Moore, L, 4–30–1818, by Amos Goodwin.
               Lee Babcock to Sally Washburn, L, 5–2–1818.
               William Hobson to Elizabeth Thomas (dau. of widow Thomas), L, 5–4–1818.
               Amos Moore to Rachel McDonald, L, 5–6–1818, by Amos Goodwin.
               
               Samuel Hillard to Nancy Arndt (or Arnat) (widow), L, 5–15–1818.
               George Howard to Sarah Hughes, L, 5–16–1818.
               Jonathan Elsworth to Amanda Babcock, C, 5–18–1818.
               William Patrick to Martha Kelley, L, 6–1–1818, by Samuel Hay.
               John Lawrence to Ruth Merrell, L, 6–17–1818.
               Samuel R. Davis to Katherine Lewis, L, 6–23–1818.
               John Hedrick to Elizabeth Gressmore (dau. of John), L, 6–27–1818, by
                        Martin Huckleberry.
               David Bailey to Sarah Jenkins, L, 7–18–1818, by Lemuel Ford.
               Loyd Keith to Sarah Killion, L, 7–20–1818, by Jonathan Stark, elder of
                        Baptist Church at Pigeon Roost.
               James McGarvin to Rebecca Reed, M, 8–13–1818, by George Newland.
               Absalom Hartley to Sarah Strupy, M, 6–25–1818, by Amos Goodwin.
               Elias Long to Rachel McDonald, M, 9–20–1818, by same.
               Robert Kerns to Hannah Biggs, M, 9–10–1817 [1818?], by same.
               Absalom Frazer (?) to Barbarey Copple, M, 7–16–1818, by
                        Samuel Patterson.
               Gabriel Cummings to Rebecca Abbet, M, 8–6–1818, by same.
               William Bullock (son of Samuel) to Martha Buckhanon, L, 8–10–1818.
               Jeremiah Morgan to Susanna Patrick, L, 8–10–1818, by John Prather.
               William Brown to Lucy Wood, L, 8–12–1818.
               Thomas Edgington to Susan Stratton, L, 8–12–1818.
               George Dailey to Mary Ann Hawn, M, 8–13–1818, by Martin Huckleberry.
               Harmon Buck to Betsey Bowers, L, 8–23–1818.
               David Dailey to Polly Sherley, M, 8–30–1818, by Martin Huckleberry.
               Alexander David to Patsey Sleed, L, 8–31–1818.
               John Byrne to Permelia Abbett, L, 9–4–1818.
               Stephen Henley to Rebecca Work, L, 9–8–1818, by John Todd.
               Joseph Garner to Polly Teeple, L, 9–19–1818, by same.
               Samuel Shipman to Lavina Ann Hatfield, L, 9–11–1818, by Joseph Whitcomb.
               Joseph B. Fogle to Eliza Rinsy (?), L, 9–23–1818.
               Eleazer Johnson to Dice McCauly (?), C, 9–23–1818, by
                        Jonathan Stark.
               Absalom Roads to Dolly Copple, L, 9–24–1818, by Joseph Bower.
               Frederick Redinbout (?) to Margaret Boyer, L, 9–29–1818.
               Noah Ransdell to Elizabeth Coal, L, 9–30–1818.
               Elom Willey to Margaret Jenkins, L, 10–2–1818.
               George Brock to Elizabeth McKinley, M, 10–9–1818, by Thomas Akers.
               James Gibson to Sally Caldwell, L, 10–8–1818, by Lemuel Ford.
               John Taylor to Mariah Barber, M, 8–5–1817 [1818?], by Lemuel
                        Ford.
               Richard Pool to Milly Hooker, L, 10–14–1818.
               Alexander Guffey to Elizabeth Applegate, L, 10–15–1818, by Joseph
                        Whitcomb.
               John H. Robinson to Nancy Davis, L, 10–22–1818, by Martin Huckleberry.
               Henry Turner, Jr. to Elizabeth L. Childs, M, 8–29–1818, by Absalom
                        Littell.
               Thomas Flowers to Elizabeth White (widow), M, 11–2–1818, by Joseph
                        White.
               Zepheniah Johnson to Catherine Gelwick, L, 11–3–1818.
               Samuel Burns to Anna Sutfins, M, 11–8–1818, by John Prather.
               Alexander Bowman to Margaret Thompson, L, 11–5–1818.
               
               Jeremiah Phipps to Sarah Harmon, M, 8–7–1818, by Joseph Whitcomb.
               William Bliss to Nelly Galey, M, 8–25–1818, by same.
               Thomas Lane to Mary Woods, M, 6–8–1818, by same.
               Archibald Dunbar to Elizabeth Bell (dau. of Thomas), M, 11–26–1818, by
                        Thomas Akers, M.G.
               Edward G. Dav [illeg.] to Elizabeth Pile, L, 11–10–1818.
               James Deem to Rhcda, Stark, L, 11–21–1818.
               James S. Mayes to Sarah Jacobs, M, 11–6–1818, by Absalom Little.
               John Epler to Sarah Beggs, L, 12–1–1818.
               Stephen Davis to Rachel Lamb, L, 12–8–1818.
               John B. Courtney to Nancy Findly, M, 12–16–1818, by William G. Gulick.
               David F. Miller to Mary Wise, M, 12–26–1818, by Thomas Akers.
               William Denny to Mary Wood., L, 12–31–1818.
               Adam Stutsman to Anna Mobley, M, 1–7–1819, by Samuel Patterson.
               Charles B. Naylor to Lydia G. Miller, M, 1–7–1819, by John Todd.
               William Gray to Mary Gross, L, 1–11–1819.
               Levi Ogle to Sarah Cooper, M, 1–18–1819, by Samuel Patterson.
               John Eastis to Matilda Newland, M, 1–17–1819, by George Newland.
               David Ganote to Sarah Bceler, M, 1–14–1819, by Lemuel Ford.
               Hector Sparks to Sarah McGuire, M, 1–17–1819, by Jonathan Stark.
               Wilson Cooper to Barbary Stutsman, L, 1–18–1819.
               Jeremiah Pate to Mary Ball, L, 1–20–1819.
               Noah Cartright to Elizabeth Overman, M, 2–4–1819, by John Carr.
               Lucas Stroughan (formerly called Lucas Becket) to Nancy McComb, M,
                        2–10–1819, by James Garner.
               Eli Wright to Elizabeth Bower, M, 2–11–1819, by Joseph Bower.
               William G. Goforth to Sarah Beggs, M, 2–14–1819, by David Sharp.
               William Duerson to Nancy Tate, M, 2–23–1819, by John Todd.
               Hiram Wilson to Hannah Phipps, M, 3–11–1819, by John Todd.
               William Tisdal to Martha Shy, M, 3–19–1819.
               Jacob D. Rowe to Catherine Johnson, M, 3–25–1819, by Jospeh Bower.
               Nicholas Philips to Elizabeth Shultz, M, 3–28–1819, by George Ross.
               John E. Roe to Anna Carrel, M, 4–1–1819, by Joseph Bower.
               Matthew McAfee to Polly Vogal, M, 4–1–1819, by Martin Huckleberry.
               John B. Dosen (?) to Elizabeth Renard, M, 4–8–1819, by same.
               Allen Mars to Sarah Naylor, M, 4–21–1819, by James Garner.
               Hugh Findley to Rebecca Coons, L, 4–21–1819.
               George Harrison to Rebecca Prather, M, 4–22–1819, by John Prather.
               Thomas Dougan to Sarah Ann Roe, M, 4–29–1819, by Joseph Bower.
               Samuel McConnell to Mary Ann Morgan, L, 4–28–1819, by George New-land.
               Philip Bennet to Juliet Ann White, L, 4–28–1819.
               William Perdue to Elizabeth Anderson, L, 5–5–1819, by James Garner.
               John Norris (widower) to Elizabeth Sage (widow), M, 5–6–1819, by Martin
                        Huckleberry.
               George Harrod to Margaretta W. McNamary (?), M, 5–13–1819, by
                        Amos Goodwin.
               Daniel Bilderback to Lova Cartright, M, 5–15–1819, by George Newland.
               Elias Foster to Pheba M. Reeve, L, 5–17–1819.
               John Scott to Jenny Lawrence (dau. of William), L, 5–17–1819.
               Jesse L. H. Atkins to Lydia Shipman, M, 5–27–1819, by John Todd.
               
               Thomas J. Todd to Margaret L. Todd, M, 5–29–1819, by same.
               John Watson to Mary Campbell, M, 5–27–1819, by Samuel Patterson.
               David Grundy to Rhody Niles, L, 6–14–1819.
               Eli Patrick to Roxcany (?) Howard, L, 6–21–1819.
               Ezra Smith to Eunice Bundy, L, 6–26–1819, by George Ross.
               William Lockhart to Tabitha Armstrong (widow of John Armstrong), M,
                        7–15–1819, by Jeremiah Stilwell, M.G.
               Vincent Hobbs to Sarah Spencer, M, 8–1–1819, by Joseph White.
               William Elliott to Aphia Thompson, L, 7–24–1819.
               W. W. Little to Mary Washburn, M, 7–29–1819, by John Carr.
               John Mathews to Sarah B. Shipman, M, 8–1–1819, by John Carr.
               William Plasket to Elizas Holly, L, 8–3–1819.
               Francis McGuire to Mary Johnson, M, 8–5–1819, by Amos Goodwin.
               Daniel Drummond to Elizabeth Fifer, L, 8–5–1819, by John Todd.
               Alfred Plummer to Sarah Abbet, L, 8–6–1819, by James Garner.
               John Rice to Sarah Shockley, M, 8–8–1819, by John Carr.
               John Trosper to Sarah Montgomery, M, 8–17–1819, by David Morgan.
               George Smallwood to Elizabeth Goss, L, 8–17–1819.
               Craven Hester to Martha Leonard, L, 8–25–1819.
               John Green to Elizabeth Bundy, M, 9–2–1819, by John Prather.
               Enos S. Tuttle to Rhoda Benson, M, 9–5–1819, by Amos Goodwin.
               Alexander Long to Susan McCorey, L, 9–5–1819.
               Alexander Mars to Elizabeth Beggs, M, 9–16–1819, by John Todd.
               Michael Killion to Nancy Donohew, L, 9–16–1819.
               Augustus Oard to Susan Bullock, M, 9–27–1819, by Lemuel Ford.
               William Smith to Elenor Comings, L, 9–24–1819, by Jonathan Stark.
               William Bullock to [illeg.] Plummer, L, 9–30–1819, by Jeremiah Stilwell.
               Henry Bowman to Sarah Howard (people of color), L, 9–23–1819.
               John Shannon to Sarah Work, M, 10–14–1819, by John, Todd.
               Benjamin V. M. Teel to Ann Gilmore Weir, M, 10–14–1819, by Amos Goodwin.
               John Howe to Sarah Stevens, M, 10–14–1819, by Martin Huckleberry.
               Levi Owen to Sarah Shake, M, 10–23–1819, by Lemuel Ford.
               Daniel Huckleberry to Elizabeth Street, M, 10–14–1819, by Martin
                        Huckleberry.
               John Barringer to Mary D. Dunn, M, 10–14–1819, by Calvin Ruter.
               Edward Wilson to Elizabeth Castle, M, 10–18–1819, by R. H. Murray.
               Richard Johnson to Catherine Fouts, M, 10–21–1819, by Joseph Bower.
               John Wilson to Mary Thompson, L, 10–28–1819.
               Jonas Howard to Margarete Helpner (?), M, 10–30–1819, by R.
                        H. Murray.
               Jeremiah Patrick to Catherine Holeman, M, 11–4–1819, by John Prather.
               William Harris to Mariah Heisler, L, 11–2–1819.
               Thomas Evans to Elizabeth Lemon, L, 11–11–1819.
               John A. Reeve to Elizabeth Ross, L, 11–17–1819.
               John C. Jones to Maria W. Climenson, M, 11–20–1819, by John Carr.
               Jacob Strutt to Mary Huckleberry, M, 11–23–1819, by Martin Huckleberry.
               Daniel J. Caswell to Nancy L. Hay, M, 11–24–1819, by John Todd.
               Ebenezer Tibbets to Ivy Stark, M, 11–25–1819, by William G. Gulick.
               Ezekiel Blizard to Mary Heath, M, 12–1–1819, by Martin Huckleberry.
               
               Lawrence Wilson to Sarah McKee, L, 12–2–1819.
               James Cummins to Eleanor Cassaday, L, 12–2–1819, by James Garner.
               John Patrick to Elizabeth Hillman, M, 10–9–1819, by R. H. Murray.
               John P. Randolph to Nancy Rawalt, M, 12–12–1819, by, Joseph Bower.
               Joshua Leach to Elizabeth McLane, M, 12–9–1819, by Joseph White.
               Franklin Warren to Lydia Phelps, L, 12–9–1819, by George Ross.
               Henry Freeman to Polly Smith (people of color), M, 12–12–1819, by John
                        Carr.
               Philip Daily to Delila Athon, M, 10–8–1819, by Martin Huckleberry.
               John Frazier to Elizabeth Smith, M, 12–19–1819, by Calvin Ruter.
               George Taffe to Catherine Harrod, M, 12–23–1819, by Amos Goodwin.
               Silas Boicourt to Catherine Stonecipher, M, 12–29–1819, by James Garner.
               James Lowe to Ann Arbuckell, M, 12–30–1819, by John M. Dickey.
               Simon Erwin to Mildred Trosper, L, 1–8–1820.
               George Jackson to Amy Applegate, L, 1–10–1820.
               Edward Perry, Jr. to Catherine Smith, M, 1–10–1820, by Amos Goodwin.
               William Chrisman to Catherine Alpha, M, 1–21–1820, by Lemuel Ford.
               William C. Ray to Mary Robinson, M, 1–27–1820, by Joseph Bower.
               Joseph Fisler to Elizabeth Brown, L, 2–1–1820.
               John Baltrell to Catherine Barneard, L, 2–1–1820, by William G. Gulick.
               George Grismore to Patsey Stacey, L, 2–2–1820.
               Joseph Trickier to Catherine Lutz, M, 2–8–1820, by Martin Huckleberry.
               Richard Daves to Eunice Knapp, M, 2–10–1820, by Calvin Ruter.
               Jacob I. (or J.) Robinson to Jane Davis, M, 2–10–1820, by Martin
                        Huckleberry.
               John Lockhart to Elizabeth Walker, L, 2–14–1820.
               Joseph Wayn to Nancy Bartley, M, 2–15–1820, by Johnj Carr.
               William Ingram to Elizabeth Hartman, M, 2–17–1820, by Amos Goodwin.
               Jacob Hutsell to Elizabeth Howard, M, 2–22–1820, by Joseph Bower.
               John Abbott to Hannah Bartley, M, 2–20–1820, by Lemuel Ford.
               Joseph Kiger to Barbara Calfhead, M, 2–22–1820, by Martin Huckleberry.
               Jesse Oard to Jemima Goodman, M, 2–27–1820, by Jeremiah Stilwell.
               Henry Brenton to Barbara Buckhannon, M, 3–2–1820, by William G. Gulick.
               Simon Shufflebarger to Hannah Beenard (?), M, 3–9–1820, by
                        Joseph Bower.
               William Dwinell to Elizabeth Watson, L, 3–3–1820.
               Jacob Brougher to Isabel Fouts, M, 3–9–1820, by! Joseph Bower.
               William Ellet to Elizabeth Mahon, M, 3–16–1820, by Amos Goodwin.
               Hugh Edy to Elizabeth Evans, L, 3–21–1820.
               Charles Cox to Rachel Craig, M, 3–23–1820, by John Crafton.
               John Hazard to Sarah Gresmore, M, 3–28–1820, by James Garner.
               James Peck to Malinda Hide, M, 4–20–1820, by John Todd.
               John L. Hall to Catherine Hougland, M, 3–30–1820, by John Warman, M.G.
               Joseph Hobson to Margaret Sutfin, L, 4–4–1820.
               John Mitchell to Catherine Oard, M, 4–6–1820, by Jeremiah Stilwell.
               Daniel R. Alpha to Morilla Priest, L, 4–6–1820, by Lemuel Ford.
               Robert Mathes, Jr. to Mary Booker, L, 4–10–1820.
               John P. Wallace to Mary Woodburn, M, 4–20–1820, by Sam Robinson.
               
               Carey Wilkinson to Nancy Albritton, M, 4–16–1820, by Martin Huckleberry.
               David Vineyard to Jane Crafton, L, 4–17–1820.
               Joel Stutsman to Sarah Anderson, L, 4–17–1820.
               Athanasies Warthen to Elizabeth Bowman, M, 4–27–1820, by John Todd.
               George Jones to Jemima Consens (people of color), M, 4–24–1820.
               Burl Bassel to Betsey Atkins, L, 4–26–1820.
               James Tucker to Lavina Warren, M, 5–2–1820, by Calvin Ruter.
               John Allhands to Sarah Harper, L, 5–1–1820.
               John S. Simonson to Elizabeth E. Watson, M, 5–3–1820, by John Todd.
               Abraham Beadles to Sarah Carr, L, 5–5–1820.
               Andrew Robinet to Eleanor Harton, M, 5–11–1820, by Samuel Patterson.
               Asa Glover to Sarah White, L, 5–7–1820, by George Ross.
               Isaac Miller to Polly Sullivan, M, 1–27–1820, by Joseph White.
            
         
         
         
            WANTED—COUNTY HISTORIES
            The Indiana University Library is attempting to add to its present holdings on Indiana History all of
                    the Indiana county histories and atlases that have been published. If any of the readers of the Indiana Magazine of History have county histories or atlases which they desire to
                    dispose of, please write Miss Irene Ryan, Indiana University Library, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, giving the author and title of the volume and the price which they would
                    expect to receive. We are particularly interested in the following:
            
               
                  Reminiscences of Adams, Jay and Randolph counties.
               
                  Biographical and Historical Record of Adams and Wells Counties, Indiana.
               John F. Snow, History of 
                                Adams County
                            , Indiana.
               John W. Tyndall and 0. E. Lesh (eds.), Standard History of Adams and Wells
                            Counties, Indiana.
               George A. Ogle & Company, Standard Atlas of 
                                Allen County
                            , Indiana.
               Thomas B. Helm (ed.), History of 
                                Allen County
                            , Indiana.
               Wallace A. Brice, History of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                  .
               Bert J. Griswold, Pictorial History of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               Beers, 
                     
                                Bartholomew
                             County, Indiana Atlas
               
               Acme Publishing Company, Descriptive Atlas of 
                                Bartholomew
                             County.
               
                  Complete Directory of 
                                Bartholomew
                             County, Indiana.
               Benjamin F. Bowen, Biographical Record of 
                                Bartholomew
                             County.
               
                  Biographical Record of 
                                Bartholomew
                             and Jackson Counties, Indiana.
               
                  History of 
                                Bartholomew
                             County, Indiana.
               
                  People's Guide; A Business, Political and Religious Direc-of 
                                Bartholomew
                             County, Indiana.
               George A. Ogle & Company, Standard Atlas of 
                                Benton
                             County, Indiana.
               Elmore Barce, History of 
                                Benton
                             County, Indiana.
               Benjamin C. Shinn, Biographical Memoirs of 
                                Blackford
                             County, Indiana.
               Kingman Brothers, Combination Atlas Map of 
                                Boone
                             County Indiana.
               George A. Ogle & Company, Standard Atlas of 
                                Boone
                             County, Indiana.
               
               Leander M. Crist, History of 
                                Boone
                             County, Indiana.
               Stephen Neal, 
                     
                                Boone
                             County.
               A. W. Bowen & Company, A Portrait and Biographical Record of 
                                Boone
                            
                  .
               
                  People's Guide; a Business, Political and Religious Directory of 
                                Boone
                             County, Indiana.
               Thomas B. Helm (ed.), History of 
                                Carroll County
                            , Indiana.
               John C. Odell, History of 
                                Carroll County
                            , Indiana.
               James H. Stewart, Recollections of the Early Settlements of 
                                Carroll County
                            , Indiana.
               
                  Atlas and Plat Book of 
                                Carroll County
                            , Indiana.
               
                  
                     
                                Carroll County
                             Indiana, Illustrated Historical Atlas.
               
                  Biographical and Genealogical History of Cass, Miami, Howard and Tipton
                        Counties.
               
                  
                     
                                Cass County
                            , Indiana, Combination Atlas Map.
               Thomas B. Helm, History of 
                                Cass County
                            , Indiana.
               Jehu Z. Powell, History of 
                                Cass County
                            , Indiana.
               John M. Gresham, Biographical and Historical Souvenir for the Counties of Clark,
                            Crawford, Harrison, Floyd, Jefferson, Jennings, Scott and Washington, Indiana.
               Lewis C. Baird, Baird's History of Clarke County, Indiana.
               Mrs. C. R. Cogswell, Early History of 
                                Clark County
                            , Indiana.
               
                  The Encyclopedia Directory of 
                                Clay
                             County, Indiana.
               
                  Atlas and Plat Book of 
                                Clinton County
                            , Indiana.
               Kingman Brothers (comp.), Combination Atlas Map of 
                                Clinton County
                            , Indiana.
               Middle West Publishing Company, 20th Century Atlas of 
                                Clinton County
                            , Indiana.
               
                  History of 
                                Clinton County
                            , Indiana.
               Joseph Claybaugh, History of 
                                Clinton County
                            , Indiana.
            
            [To be continued]
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
