
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 88, Issue 4, pages 273-362. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:88+issue:4+year:1992&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Challenging Corporate Polluters: Race, Class, and Environmental Politics in Gary, Indiana, since
                    1945
            
                    Andrew Hurley
                    *
                
            Buoyed by a groundswell of popular support the American environmental movement reached its zenith
                    between 1969 and 1972. Environmental organizations scored unprecedented membership gains, the nation
                    celebrated Earth Day, and in a series of battles over industrial development projects, citizens
                    squared off against private businesses in state and local legislatures, in court, and on
                    construction sites.1 Amidst the burst of activity, an unusual incident occurred
                    in Gary, Indiana. On the evening of December 15, 1970, as the Gary city council met to consider an
                    amendment to the municipal air pollution ordinance, 350 citizens jammed the council chambers.
                    Affluent whites, blue-collar steelworkers, and black youths showed up to vent their wrath against
                    the city's major polluter, the US Steel Corporation. The citizens of Gary had joined forces
                    in support of an aggressive anti-pollution program orchestrated by Richard Hatcher, the
                    city's first African-American mayor. The specific legislation in question was a bill that
                    would, for the first time, force US Steel to curb air emissions from its coking ovens. Reflecting
                    widespread popular approval, public testimony overwhelmingly favored the bill; only the steel
                    company representative argued against its passage.2 In this battle over coke
                    oven emissions, the people of Gary transcended racial and class lines to stand together against
                    corporate pollution and power.
            
               
                  * Andrew Hurley is assistant professor of history at the
                        University of 
                            Missouri
                        -
                            St. Louis
                        . He would like to thank Patricia Cleary, Ken Goings, and Robert Wiebe for their
                        assistance in preparing this article.
               
                  1 Walter A. Rosenbaum, The Politics of Environmental
                        Concern (2nd ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1977). Also see Thomas N. Gladwin, "Patterns of Environmental Conflict
                        Over Industrial Facilities in the 
                            United States
                        ," Natural Resources Journal, XX (April, 1980),
                        258–62.
               
                  2 Phil Starr, formerly with VISTA, telephone interview with author,
                                
                     Cleveland, Ohio
                  , February 9, 1987; Gary Post-Tribune, December 16, 1970, p. 1.
               INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXVIII (December, 1992). © 1992, Trustees of Indiana
                        University.
            
            
            The presence of both blacks and working-class whites in this gathering contradicts conventional
                    assumptions about the social composition of the environmental movement in post-World War II America.
                    Scholars have overlooked the roles played by African Americans and industrial workers in the push
                    for cleaner air, fresher water, and wilderness preservation. Indeed, ample evidence supports the
                    notion that environmental activism was a white, middle-class affair. Through the 1960s,
                    well-educated, upper-income suburbanites in white-collar professions filled the ranks of important
                    environmental organizations; public opinion polls showed that they also provided the most consistent
                    support for environmental reform.3 Samuel Hays, in the most sophisticated
                    analysis of environmentalism's social roots, offered an explanation for this social bias by
                    linking environmental values with a growing concern among well-to-do Americans for the quality of
                    life and the quest for amenities. According to Hays, widespread prosperity in the decades following
                    World War II inspired many people to adopt a new set of priorities: maintaining good health, living
                    amidst pleasant surroundings, devoting time to leisure activities, and improving the quality of
                    life. Industrial pollution elicited wrath because it interfered with the pursuit of these
                        amenities.4 For Hays then, the rise of environmentalism was associated with
                    habits and an outlook that developed along with post-World War II prosperity.5
            
            
               
                  3 Charles O. Jones, Clean Air: The Policies and Politics of
                            Pollution Control (
                            Pittsburgh
                        , 1975), 140–54. For statistical evidence pointing to the preponderance
                        of suburban, middle-class Americans among proponents of environmental reform see, Hazel Erskine,
                        "The Polls: Pollution and its Costs," Public Opinion
                        Quarterly, XXXVI (Spring, 1972), 120–35; J. Clarence Davies III, The Politics of Pollution (
                            New York
                        , 1970), 80.
               
                  4 Samuel P. Hays, Beauty, Health, and Permanence:
                            Environmental Politics in the 
                                United States
                            , 1955–1985 (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1987). Interpretations of recent African-American history complement the
                        conclusions that whites dominated the environmental movement. According to some historians, the
                        late 1960s witnessed a collapse of political alliances between whites and blacks. Black
                        activists rejected the integrationist civil rights agenda in favor of a separatist black power
                        movement. Especially in northern cities, blacks summoned political strength within their
                        communities to attack poor housing conditions, eradicate poverty, and shatter the wall of white
                        authority in school systems, police departments, and welfare agencies. Environmental quality
                        ranked relatively low on their agenda. As the struggle for racial advancement moved north, white
                        liberals became alarmed at rising black militancy and withdrew their active support. Thus, not
                        only did blacks and whites split on the priority accorded to environmental reform, but they
                        demonstrated little willingness to cooperate in the political arena. See, for example, 
                            Harvard
                         Sitkoff, The Struggle for Black Equality, 1954–1980 (
                            New York
                        , 1981), 167–237; Jack M. Bloom, Class, Race, and the Civil
                            Rights Movement (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1987), 186–213; August Meier and Elliott Rudwick, From
                            Plantation to Ghetto (3rd ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1976), 308–13.
               
                  5 Some authors have used the affluent base of environmentalism as the
                        basis for critiques of the movement, arguing that the environmental movement represented an
                        attempt by elites to protect their privileges from the incursions of the poor and racial
                        minorities. See William C. Tucker, Progress and Privilege: America in the Age of
                            Environmentalism (
                            Garden City
                        , N.Y., 1982); Aaron Wildavsky, "Aesthetic
            
            
            The inclusion of African Americans and working-class whites in Gary's environmental crusade
                    suggests the need for a deeper analysis of environmentalism's political dynamics, one that
                    accounts for alternate social configurations. The conditions prompting minorities and the
                    working-class to participate in environmental activism may be understood by expanding the scope of
                    inquiry and locating the environmental movement within broader political currents. Taking this
                    approach, David Vogel insisted that the environmental movement of the late 1960s and early 1970s
                    drew its strength from a much broader political offensive against big business. Corporate backing
                    for the 
                        Vietnam
                     War and racial segregation earlier in the decade incensed many Americans and, according
                    to Vogel, prompted them to scrutinize corporate behavior on other "public
                    interest" issues such as consumer safety, public health, and eventually the environment.
                    Hence, the most salient feature of environmental reform was its assault on corporate prerogatives.
                    Amendments to the Clean Air Act (1970) and Clean Water Act (1972) mandated that industries clean up
                    their waste emissions, regardless of cost, by establishing stringent air and water quality standards
                    along with deadlines for compliance. Vogel's analysis demonstrated that the political
                    success of environmentalism was not solely a product of a growing concern for environmental quality
                    but was related to a more generalized frustration with corporate behavior. Still, Vogel located the
                    source of the anti-corporate crusade among well-educated, affluent Americans who were skeptical of
                    all large centralized institutions.6
            
            Yet it was precisely by articulating the pollution problem as a reflection of corporate exploitation
                    that Richard Hatcher fashioned a socially inclusive environmental coalition in Gary. If it is
                    surprising that blacks and working-class whites participated in a campaign to curb industrial
                    emissions, it is only because historians have overlooked fundamental commonalities between the
                    environmental movement and the political initiatives of lower-income groups in urban society during
                    the 1960s. At the same time that 
                  Power or the Triumph of the Sensitive Minority Over the Vulgar Mass: A Political Analysis
                            of the New Economics," in America's Changing
                            Environment, ed. Roger Revelle and Hans H. Landsberg (
                                Boston
                            , 1970), 156. For exceptional treatments that emphasize the broad base of
                            environmental support see Richard Kazis and Richard L. Grossman, Fear at Work:
                                Job Blackmail, Labor and the Environment (
                                New York
                            , 1982); Richard N. L. Andrews, "Class Politics or Democratic Reform:
                            Environmentalism and American Political Institutions," Natural
                                Resources Journal, XX (April, 1980), 221–42; and Robert D. Bullard, Dumping in Dixie: Race, Class and Environmental Quality (Boulder, Colo.,
                            1990), 14, 35, 100.
                  
                     6 David Vogel, Fluctuating Fortunes: The Political Power
                                of Business in America (
                                New York
                            , 1989), 37–100; David Vogel, Lobbying the Corporation:
                                Citizen Challenges to Business Authority (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 21–68. Also see Robert L. Rabin, "Federal
                            Regulation in Historical Perspective," 
                        
                                    Stanford
                                 Law Review, XXXVIII (May, 1986), 1189–1326.
               
                     middle-class whites took manufacturers to task for fouling the
                    air and producing shoddy products, minorities and the poor waged their own battles against urban
                    renewal projects and racial discrimination in both public and private institutions. What all these
                    agitators shared was a basic rejection of political structures that accorded highest priority to
                    business interests. The political turbulence of the 1960s, or more precisely, the weakening of
                    growth-oriented political regimes, created opportunities for the construction of alliances among the
                    newly mobilized groups. In Gary these energies found a focus in a movement to curb industrial
                    pollution. Gary's example is instructive in that for much of the post-World War II period,
                    the city's environmental movement conformed to the stereotypical portrait. From 1945 until
                    1967, affluent whites dominated campaigns to reduce industrial pollution. During this early phase of
                    environmental reform, civic leaders cooperated with US Steel in formulating an air pollution
                    ordinance that made minimal incursions into industrial production. In the late 1960s the situation
                    changed. An explosion of racial tensions called existing political and social affiliations into
                    question. Mayor Hatcher saw this social and political crisis as an opportunity to restructure the
                    public agenda. He did so by joining two converging forces: the drive for greater community power as
                    defined by blacks and working-class whites and a rising concern for the quality of residential life
                    that took hold most firmly among affluent whites. Fusing environmental concerns with popular
                    resentment toward US Steel, Hatcher initiated a drive to impose strict regulations on corporate
                    polluters and, in the process, stimulated the formation of a multi-class and multi-racial
                    environmental coalition. Thus, the transformation of environmental politics in Gary during the late
                    1960s demonstrates how it was possible to expand the movement's popular base by placing
                    environmental reform in a broader political context, in this case, an assessment of the role of the
                    corporation in the community. This article will describe the shift in environmental politics,
                    uncover the social and political developments that precipitated the transformation, and suggest the
                    degree to which the social composition of the environmental movement has influenced its character
                    and effectiveness.
            From its beginnings in 1906, Gary was an industrial city; environmental conditions and social
                    arrangements flowed from the dictates of steel production. With the purchase of 9,000 acres of
                    property along the shore of Lake 
                        Michigan
                    , US Steel turned a wilderness area into an industrial city.7
                    Gary's steel mills spewed 
                  
                     7 Powell A. Moore, The Calumet Region: Indiana's
                                Last Frontier (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1959), 275–76; Edward Greer, Big Steel: Black Politics
                                and Corporate Power in Gary, Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1979), 57–61; 
                                United States
                             Steel Corporation, Gary Steel Works 50th Anniversary (Gary,
                            1956), 7–8, box 1, US Steel Corporation Collection (Calumet Regional Archives,
                            Indiana University Northwest, Gary, Indiana).
               
                    
                    
                  RICHARD HATCHER DURING 1967 ELECTION Courtesy Calumet Regional Archives, Indiana University
                            Northwest.
               
                     industrial wastes across the urban landscape. In the years just
                    after World War II, when production boomed, US Steel released over two hundred fifty tons of
                    pollutants into the atmosphere annually and discharged three hundred million gallons of liquid waste
                    into Gary's waterways daily.8 Although the arrival of an automobile
                    body parts manufacturer, an electric power utility, a paper mill, and several chemical companies
                    introduced additional wastes to Gary's air and water in the 1950s, US Steel remained the
                    primary agent of environmental degradation.
            Dirty air and water imposed inconvenience and health risks on all Gary residents. Soot raining down
                    from factory smokestacks discouraged families from hanging their wash out to dry. Tap water, full of
                    floating metallic sediments, tasted bad. Recreational and commercial fishermen complained that
                    industrial sewage depleted the fish population in the Grand Calumet River and Lake 
                        Michigan
                    . Human health suffered. Workers came home from the steel mills coughing and wheezing,
                    and in districts bordering the factories infant mortality rates soared. Although exposure to smoke
                    varied according to where one lived and worked, industrial pollution was sufficiently pervasive to
                    intrude on the lives of all Gary citizens.9
            
            Industry exerted an equally powerful influence over Gary's social configuration. The
                    patterns of labor recruitment at US Steel created a class structure based on ethnic and racial
                    divisions. When the steel company commenced operations, immigrants from southeastern Europe
                    represented the most accessible source of cheap labor. Following trends established in the steel
                    industry across the nation, Poles, Slovaks, Serbians, and Croatians filled unskilled and
                    semi-skilled jobs while a smaller number of men with northern European backgrounds monopolized
                    skilled and supervisory positions. Beginning in World War I, mill management recruited southern
                    blacks as European migration to the 
                        United States
                     slowed. These African Americans, entering on the lowest rungs of the occupational
                    ladder, performed the most menial work for the least pay. By 1945 blacks represented 27 percent of
                    the 
                  
                     8 These figures are based on data compiled in the mid-1960s
                            extrapolated downward according to changes in output at Gary Works. U.S. Department of
                            Health, Education, and Welfare, Public Health Service, Air Pollutant Emission
                                Inventory of Northwest Indiana, A Preliminary Survey (1966), 19; U.S. Department of
                            Health, Education, and Welfare, Public Health Service, Report on Pollution of
                                the Waters of the Grand Calumet River, Little Calumet River, Calumet River, Lake 
                                    Michigan
                                , Wolf Lake and their Tributaries (1965), 20.
                  
                     9 Gary Post-Tribune, January 4, 1949, press clipping
                            collection (Gary Public Library, Gary, Indiana); Fred Carr, commercial fisherman, interview
                            with author, Portage, Indiana, December 12, 1986. For a statistical analysis of infant
                            mortality see Andrew Hurley, "Environmental and Social Change in Gary, Indiana,
                            1945–1980" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Northwestern
                            University, 1988), 55.
               
                     Gary Works labor force and over 30 percent of the
                    city's residential population.10 Meanwhile, Gary's tight-knit
                    ethnic communities continued to thrive. As late as 1957, immigrants and their children accounted for
                    two out of five Gary citizens.11 Although foreign-stock whites and blacks
                    combined to form a working-class, job and housing competition generated animosity between the two
                    groups. This hostility intensified after World War II as the steadily increasing black population
                    pressed for access to housing, schools, and recreational facilities in white, working-class
                    neighborhoods.
            Although Gary remained a predominantly working-class city throughout the post-World II era, a growing
                    number of more affluent residents set themselves apart by attaining such hallmarks of middle-class
                    life as suburban residence and privately owned homes. Prior to World War II, only businesspersons
                    and some white-collar employees, usually of northern European extraction, constructed their lives
                    around middle-class norms. After 1945, affluence and consumerism usurped occupation and ethnic
                    background as the most significant determinants of middle-class status, thereby broadening
                    opportunities for social mobility.12 For example, restrictions prohibiting Jews
                    from moving into Gary's elite neighborhoods fell by the wayside in the 1950s.13 The vitality of the steel industry and the economic gains of organized labor even
                    allowed some industrial laborers to buy their way into the middle class. Reflecting these trends,
                    home ownership rates in Gary jumped from 34 to 60 percent between 1940 and 1980.14 At the same time, Gary's suburban fringe scored the largest gains in
                        population.15 Only African Americans, relegated to the lowest 
                  
                     10 Paul S. Taylor, Mexican Labor in the
                                        
                           United States, Chicago
                        , and the Calumet Region (Berkeley, 1932),
                            42–43; Raymond Mohl and Neil Betten, Steel City: Urban and Ethnic
                                Patterns in Gary, Indiana, 1906–1950 (
                                New York
                            , 1986), 10–25; Edward Greer, "Racism and US
                            Steel," Radical America, X (September-October, 1976),
                            45–68; J. Harvey Kerns, A Study of Social and Economic Conditions of
                                the Negro Population of Gary, Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1944), 31. For a discussion of national trends in the steel industry at the
                            beginning of the twentieth century see David Brody, Steel-workers in America:
                                The Nonunion Era (
                                New York
                            , 1960), 80–111.
                  
                     11 Phillips Cutwright, "Party Organization and Voting
                            Behavior," (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1960), 17. Evidence of strong ethnic attachments can be seen in post-World War
                            II residential patterns. Working-class whites continued to cluster in relatively homogeneous
                            ethnic neighborhoods. See U.S., Seventeenth Census, 1950: Vol. Ill, Statistics for Census Tracts, Chapter 10, 65–67.
                  
                     12 For a good discussion of the new middle class see Kenneth Fox, Metropolitan America: Urban Life and Urban Policy in the 
                                    United States
                                , 1940–1980 (Jackson, Miss., 1986), 50–78. Also
                            see, Loren Baritz, The Good Life: The Meaning of Success for the Middle
                            Class (
                                New York
                            , 1990), 166–224.
                  
                     13 Charles Lazerwitz, realtor, interview with author, Gary, Indiana,
                            November 17, 1986.
                  
                     14 U.S., Sixteenth Census, 1940: Block Statistics,
                            5. U.S., Twentieth Census, 1980: Vol. Ill, Chapter 10, Statistics for Census Tracts, H-4 through H-6.
                  
                     15 U.S., Seventeenth Census, 1950: Statistics for Census
                                Tracts, 190–193. U.S., Twentieth Census, 1980: Vol.
                            Ill, Chapter 10, Statistics for Census Tracts, P-4 through P-7.
               
                     rungs of the industrial hierarchy and subjugated to racial
                    discrimination, faced rigid barriers to middle-class life.
            It was among the members of this emergent middle-class, particularly professionals and homemakers,
                    that environmental degradation first provoked a public outcry. With their suburban homes,
                    high-incomes, and abundant leisure time, Gary's affluent residents conformed to the image
                    of environmentalists depicted in much of the scholarly literature. It was industrial smoke, above
                    all, that inspired the wrath of these middle-class citizens. Realtors, sensitive to growing
                    environmental concerns, emphasized clean air when advertising surburban homes in the 1940s.16 In the 1950s and early 1960s, the League of Women Voters and the Junior
                    Chamber of Commerce, civic groups that drew membership from white-collar professional families,
                    called for local legislation to curb factory emissions.17
            
            The reformers task was difficult, however, because the local political structure welded together
                    Gary's organized interests through policies that promoted economic growth. Keynesian
                    precepts, which charged the federal government with the responsibility for stimulating national
                    economic growth, also influenced the structure of local politics. Following World War II, urban
                    politicians throughout the nation used economic growth to build coalitions from diverse
                        constituencies.18 Gary proved well suited to this approach; from 1945
                    through 1967, the major players in Gary politics—business, labor, ethnic organizations,
                    and, to a lesser extent, churches in the black community—worked cooperatively through
                    local government to advance the city's economic welfare.19 Hence, city
                    officials devoted their energies to improving the downtown shopping district and attracting new
                    manufacturers to Gary. This arrangement was made possible by organized labor's willingness
                    to confine class conflict to the workplace; labor leaders hoped that political tranquility would
                    enhance the local business climate and thus increase private sector employment. For the ethnic
                    associations, which marshalled white working-class voters to the polls for the Democratic party,
                    local prosperity meant plenty of public sector jobs to distribute to their members. But the prime
                    benefactor of growth politics was the business community and US Steel in particular. The steel
                    company's reputation as the primary generator 
                  
                     16 Gary Post-Tribune, September 1, 1948, p. 33.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., November 6, 1966, press clipping collection (Gary Public Library);
                            Matthew Crenson, The Un-Politics of Air Pollution: A Study of
                                Non-Decisionmaking in the Cities (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1971), 66–67.
                  
                     18 On the development of pro-growth coalitions in urban America see
                            John Mollenkopf, The Contested City (
                                Princeton
                            , 1983).
                  
                     19 The most thorough analysis of Gary's political structure
                            in the 1950s can be found in Warner Bloomberg, "The Power Structure of an
                            Industrial Community" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1961).
               
                     of local growth discouraged city leaders from antagonizing the
                    corporation or raising operating costs.
            Nevertheless, middle-class proponents of clean air managed to push air pollution reform onto the
                    public agenda by emphasizing its contribution to economic growth. Industrial pollution made Gary
                    look bad, especially in comparison to other cities such as 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     that had established programs to clean their air. The city's national image
                    suffered when a well-publicized investigation ranked Gary's air quality as the worst in the 
                        United States
                     during the late 1950s and early 1960s.20 It was a small step from
                    concerns about the city's reputation to the belief that cleaner air might promote economic
                    growth. By the 1960s, reports outlining strategies for local economic development urged a reduction
                    in air pollution to improve the city's image.21 Even though advocates
                    of environmental reform also pointed to the health hazards and inconveniences associated with
                    pollution, it was the economic argument that made the issue palatable to many civic leaders whose
                    foremost concern was local prosperity.
            Realizing that business support was essential to the success of pollution reform, civic leaders
                    collaborated with industry in formulating environmental policy. The business community was amenable,
                    in part, because it understood that reformers were not out to harm industry. The common desire for a
                    vibrant economy, combined with widespread public support for US Steel's right to manage
                    production, ensured that the city would not pass any law hostile to industry. Furthermore,
                    manufacturers had their own reasons for supporting local pollution reform initiatives. In public and
                    private statements, business leaders expressed a preference for cooperating in the formulation of
                    local regulation programs rather than facing outside control by state and federal anti-pollution
                        regulations.22
            
            Indeed, US Steel took a lead role in pushing for Gary's first air pollution control program. 
                        Granville
                     Ho well, the vice-president for operations at US Steel, took the first step toward
                    legislation with a behind-the-scenes maneuver in 1955. Howell sent his sister to deliver a message
                    to 
                        Milton
                     Roth, a young attorney running for a seat on the city council. The message conveyed Ho
                    well's assurance that US Steel was ready to do something about air pollution; if the city
                    council passed legislation, the corporation would comply. 
                  
                     20 Crenson, The Un-Politics of Air Pollution, 72.
                  
                     21 Gary Plan Commission, Comprehensive Plan, The City of
                                Gary, Indiana, The Master Physical Development Plan for the City of Gary, Indiana (
                                Evanston
                            , Ill., 1964), p. 6.2, box 4, Gary Collection (Calumet Regional Archives); Gary
                            Redevelopment Commission, Gary, Indiana, Community Renewal Program (
                                Mishawaka
                            , Ind., 1968), 35, ibid.
                  
                  
                     22 Crenson, The Un-Politics of Air Pollution, 68,
                            72.
               
                     As he recalled many years later, Roth never knew whether or not
                    Howell had authorization from the company to relay the message.23 Perhaps
                    Howell, acting on his own, wished to prod the company into action. Regardless of Howell's
                    intent, Roth decided to accept his suggestion, making pollution reform the cornerstone of his
                    campaign. He placed advertisements in the local press depicting young children wheezing in a cloud
                    of smoke. If 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     passed anti-smoke laws, then Gary should be able to "muzzle smokestacks as
                        well."24 The campaign succeeded; Roth won a seat on the 1956 city
                    council. Shortly thereafter, he introduced legislation calling for an air pollution control program.
            Over the next seven years, the fate of a municipal air pollution program continued to depend on the
                    involvement of US Steel. Roth's colleagues in the city council feared that environmental
                    regulation would alienate the business community. At one point Gary's mayor urged Roth to
                    abandon his proposal, calling the idea "insane."25 The Chamber
                    of Commerce's opposition to the proposal carried great weight among local politicians.26 Despite the lobbying efforts of the League of Women Voters and the Junior
                    Chamber of Commerce in support of reform, the city council procrastinated, placing the matter under
                    study for several years. It was not until more positive signals came from business leaders that
                    politicians summoned the courage to move forward. In the early 1960s, the Chamber of
                    Commerce's position thawed; it began to recognize the benefit of some sort of law. But the
                    crucial catalyst was once again US Steel. In the fall of 1962, the steel giant publicly endorsed
                    smoke abatement legislation. In December, the city council established Gary's first air
                    pollution control program.27
            
            Crafted by city officials in consultation with US Steel, the pollution program treated industry
                        leniently.28 While the law set limitations on the density of smoke emissions
                    and established fines for violations, it also exempted several steelmaking facilities from the
                    regulations, including coke ovens. A key clause enabled industry to avoid compliance if it promised
                    to take steps toward the gradual 
                  
                     23
                            
                                Milton
                             Roth, interview with author, Highland, Indiana, March 6, 1986.
                  
                     24 Campaign literature from 
                                Milton
                             Roth's personal scrapbook, Highland, Indiana; Roth interview.
                  
                     25 Roth interview.
                  
                     26 Keeping in line with US Steel's hands-off stance toward
                            local political squabbles, Howell may not have attempted to influence the Chamber of
                            Commerce. Perhaps the bankers, realtors, and small businesspersons that composed the Chamber
                            of Commerce were more reticent of government regulation than big steel. This explanation is
                            consistent with the distinction between the positions of large and small businesses
                            regarding federal regulation in the post-World War II period. See Alan Wolfe, America's Impasse: The Rise and Fall of the Politics of Growth (
                                Boston
                            , 1981), 23–24.
                  
                     27 Greer, Big Steel, 188.
                  
                     28 Crenson, The Un-Politics of Air Pollution,
                            69–73.
               
                     reduction of air pollution. US Steel applied for an exemption,
                    submitting a plan that promised to bring the company into compliance with the 1962 law by 1973.
                    According to the proposal, the corporation would replace worn out equipment with more modern
                    machinery retrofitted with smoke abatement devices. In essence, US Steel submitted a schedule of
                    equipment retirement. Anxious to secure the company's cooperation, city officials approved
                    US Steel's air pollution control program.29
            
            Gary's 1962 air pollution ordinance, secured with the cooperation of business leaders,
                    typified the conservative character of environmental regulation in the 
                        United States
                     during the early 1960s. Policy makers at all levels of government preferred to curb
                    industrial pollution without coercion. The procedures used to set federal water quality standards,
                    for example, usually involved the organization of conferences where representatives from industry
                    and government hammered out mutually agreeable pollution abatement schedules. States and localities
                    commonly stacked pollution control boards with corporate representatives.30
                    Gary's experience proved so typical that Matthew Crenson, a political scientist, chose the
                    city as a case study to demonstrate the extent of corporate influence, even in the absence of direct
                    company meddling, in the formulation of environmental policy. Crenson attributed Gary's
                    mild law to policy makers’ fear of offending US Steel, a fear grounded in widespread
                    faith in the ability of industry to generate local economic growth.
            By 1970, however, business-government cooperation no longer characterized environmental policy,
                    either in Gary or 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. Environmental politics turned confrontational as citizen activists, caught up in
                    the fervor of anti-corporate passions, stood off squarely against industrialists. In 1966, Ralph
                    Nader had galvanized public opinion against corporations with his crusade against unsafe consumer
                    products. Subsequently, the renowned consumer activist took corporations to task for fouling the
                    nation's air and water. Indeed, by 1970, much of the public hostility toward corporations
                    was directed at industry's assault on nature. Media coverage of the Santa Barbara oil spill
                    and the supposed death of Lake Erie in 1969 alerted Americans throughout the country to the
                    ecological 
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 69–71; Greer, Big Steel, 188–89; Gary Post-Tribune, December 29, 1962, press clipping collection (Gary Public
                            Library); Minutes of special meeting between US Steel and city officials,
                            "Discussion of Variance Request by US Steel on the 1965 Agreement,"
                            September 1, 1972, personal collection of Elaine Beck (Gary, Indiana); US Steel Corporation,
                            "Draft Report: Proposed Air Pollution Control Program for Gary Steel
                            Works," June, 1965, ibid.; Gary Air Pollution Advisory Board
                            Minutes, September 2, 1966, ibid.
                  
                  
                     30 Martin Melosi, Coping with Abundance: Energy and
                                Environment in Industrial America (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1985), 212.
               
                     destruction wrought by manufacturing. For those who lived in
                    the vicinity of Gary's steel mills, it was not difficult to reach similar conclusions.
                    Indeed, Nader singled out US Steel's operation in Gary for admonishment in a 1970 address.
                    "What right has this company," asked Nader rhetorically, "to contaminate
                    this city, damage homes, depreciate property, and injure health?"31 But
                    while Gary citizens participated in this national movement, they constructed a more adversarial
                    environmental agenda in the context of local circumstances, particularly recent developments
                    concerning race relations.
            An explosion of racial tensions in the late 1960s provoked new social demands and ultimately
                    shattered the political consensus that had undergirded a nascent, feeble air pollution program.
                    Polarization between the races intensified during the 1960s as African Americans pressed for social
                    equality while whites resisted further change. Whites and blacks in Gary clashed over an
                    open-occupancy housing law early in the decade.32 African-American students
                    boycotted classes in 1968 to protest racial discrimination in the city schools.33 Later that summer, African-American residents from Midtown, an area spanning two square
                    miles in the geographic center of Gary, torched three downtown buildings and looted department
                    stores, unleashing the same frustrations that prompted riots throughout urban America.34 Many whites fled the city in response to increased black militancy. Those who remained
                    were equally disturbed. Labor unions, business leaders, and ethnic clubs no longer commanded the
                    allegiance that they had enjoyed when community concerns revolved around economic growth and jobs.
                    In their place arose new leaders and organizations that directly addressed the challenges posed by
                    racial conflict.
            African Americans took the lead in challenging politics-as-usual, severing their ties to the local
                    Democratic machine and rallying around the candidacy of Richard Hatcher in his bid to become
                    Gary's first black mayor. Persistent discrimination in public housing, city employment, and
                    municipal services convinced blacks that their electoral contribution to the growth coalition earned
                    them inadequate rewards. Efforts by white, liberal politicians to redress grievances proceeded far
                    too slowly, blacks charged.35 Expressing blacks’ frustration with
                    their supposed allies, one local 
                  
                     31 Gary Post-Tribune, November 18, 1970, press
                            clipping scrapbook (Gary Air Pollution Division, Gary, Indiana).
                  
                     32 James B. Lane, City of the Century: A History of Gary,
                                Indiana (Blooming-ton, 1978), 279.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 294; Gary Info, May 24, 1968, p. 1.
                  
                     34
                            Gary Info, August 2, 1968, pp. 1–2.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Sun-Times, July 31, 1966, press clipping collection (Gary Public Library);
                            Edward Greer, "The ‘Liberation' of Gary, Indiana," Transaction, VIII (January, 1971), 30–34.
               
                     activist asserted that "whitism comes through far more
                    pronounced than liberalism."36 The opportunity to initiate an
                    independent political strategy materialized in the mid-1960s as white flight and steady population
                    growth among blacks gave African Americans a numerical majority in the city. Inspired by the
                    national black power movement that urged black Americans to wrest control of institutions that
                    shaped their lives, Gary's African-American leaders considered running their own candidate
                    in the next mayoral election. Hatcher seized the opportunity and spirit by opposing the incumbent
                    mayor in the Democratic primary in 1967. African Americans united around Hatcher, even when it meant
                    severing old alliances. Black steelworkers usually voted with their union's mandate, but
                    when organized labor endorsed the incumbent mayor, black union leaders formed their own political
                    action committee to assist Hatcher. With solid backing in the African-American community and a
                    smattering of support from liberal whites, Hatcher captured a narrow victory in the primary election
                    and went on to defeat his Republican challenger in November.
            In response to Hatcher's election and a more assertive black community, many whites rallied
                    around the defense of their neighborhoods. Middle-class whites feared that emboldened blacks would
                    rush into their suburban enclaves. White, working-class residents feared Hatcher's election
                    would render them powerless and deny them city services.37 These worries
                    prompted whites to band together in community-based organizations. And it was these new community
                    groups that pressed an aggressive, anti-corporate environmental agenda.
            In suburban Miller, new community organizations embraced environmental protection, in part, to
                    preserve the neighborhood's racial character. Surrounded by woods, sand dunes, and Lake 
                        Michigan
                    , Miller became the last refuge for Gary's affluent whites. With a large
                    contingent of white-collar professionals, its inhabitants had always expressed interest in the
                    environment; many were long standing members of the League of Women Voters. But this concern assumed
                    new proportions in the late 1960s and early 1970s as Miller's leaders discovered a
                    congruity between environmental protection and the maintenance of community stability. In 1971,
                    three home owners founded the Miller Citizens Corporation with the primary objective of discouraging
                    panic selling among white property holders and preventing a rapid influx of 
                  
                     36 Charles H. King, "What Happens When Power Changes Hands;
                            Black Cities, Test Tubes of Urban Crisis," Address to International Conference of
                            Human Rights Agencies, 
                        Portland, Oregon
                     , box 1, Judy Eichorn Collection
                            (Calumet Regional Archives).
                  
                     37 Charles H. Levine, Racial Conflict and the American
                                Mayor (
                                Lexington
                            , Mass., 1974), 74.
               
                    
               
                  BOARDED BUILDINGS ON BROADWAY Courtesy Calumet Regional Archives, Indiana University
                            Northwest.
                blacks.38 In its first newsletter, the group reminded members,
                    "An area cannot turn black if there are few homes for sale…. The pattern of
                    other communities which have undergone rapid racial change need not be ours."39 Miller Citizens Corporation leaders used their pristine surroundings as a selling point
                    to dissuade whites from leaving. One of their brochures asked rhetorically, "Where else
                    could you catch salmon or trout in the morning, be in easy access to your metropolitan office,
                    attend a major league game in the afternoon, and still enjoy a dinner with the family in a home near
                    the big water or nestled in the wooded dunes?"40 In a more active
                    attempt to protect Miller's rustic landscape, the group launched a campaign to prevent the
                    destruction of sand dunes.41
            
            Preserving Miller's beauty required residents to maintain a vigilant defense against local
                    industrial development, an undertaking that brought the community into conflict with manufacturers,
                    thereby fueling popular resentment toward industry. Of particular concern were attempts to site new
                    facilities along the Lake 
                        Michigan
                     shore. US Steel claimed that it needed more space for expansion; the local utility
                    company also coveted the lakeshore for a new generating station. The Miller Citizens Corporation did
                    its part to block industrial encroachment by participating in a campaign to place Miller's
                    undeveloped areas within the confines of a national park. But the task of keeping industry out of
                    Miller fell primarily to another organization, Community Action to Reverse 
                  
                     38 Judy Smith, Miller Citizens Corporation, interview with author,
                            Gary, Indiana, March 14, 1986.
                  
                     39
                            Miller Message, August 2, 1971, p. 2, press clipping collection (Gary
                            Public Library).
                  
                     40 Fred Grady, Miller Citizens Corporation, "The Message of
                            Miller," first draft, September, 1973, box 1, Miller Citizens Corporation
                            Collection (Calumet Regional Archives).
                  
                     41
                            Miller Message, August 2, 1971, p. 1, press clipping collection (Gary
                            Public Library); Miller Message, January, 1972, box 1, Miller Citizens
                            Corporation Collection.
               
                     Pollution, better known by its acronym CARP, a reference to the
                    garbage-eating fish. Embracing many of the same people who participated in the Miller Citizens
                    Corporation, CARP distinguished itself from the former group by adopting an explicit environmental
                    mission: prevent any form of industrial pollution from despoiling Miller.42 CARP
                    spent most of its energy fighting the local utility company's attempt to build a new power
                    plant, but the group also attacked US Steel for its dirty air and water emissions. Although these
                    suburban activists previously had maintained cordial relations with local industry, the relationship
                    soured as business grew intransigent toward their environmental demands. Thus, in the struggle to
                    preserve Miller's environmental amenities, members of the Miller Citizens Corporation and
                    CARP found an enemy in industry.
            Grass-roots environmentalism in working-class districts found expression in the Calumet Community
                    Congress, an organization also born out of the racial tensions that gripped Gary in the late 1960s.
                    Alarmed by the racial hatred that ran rampant through blue-collar neighborhoods in the wake of
                    Hatcher's election, several clergymen, labor activists, and community leaders formed the
                    Calumet Community Congress to channel frustrations in a more positive direction. The
                    group's organizers targeted their appeal at blue-collar workers who felt ignored, perhaps
                    even betrayed, by the civil rights movement. No African Americans were invited to join. This
                    strategy was not peculiar to Gary; community activists in 
                  Chicago, Newark, Pittsburgh, Baltimore
               , and 
                        Cleveland
                     formed similar organizations to combat political alienation among the white
                    working-class. What set the Calumet Community Congress apart was its emphasis on the environment.
                    The founders of the Congress knew that their success in mobilizing working-class citizens hinged on
                    their ability to identify immediate and tangible issues. As they scanned the panorama of popular
                    concerns, industrial pollution sprang out as the most appropriate focus for their organizing drive.
                    The strategy worked. At the founding Congress, held in the gymnasium of the George Rodgers high
                    school on December 5, 1970, attendance exceeded one thousand. Delegates passed resolutions demanding
                    stricter air pollution controls on industry, more fishing access to Lake 
                        Michigan
                    , and cleaner rivers.43
            
            
               
                  42 Helen Hoock, CARP, interview with author, Gary, Indiana, April 2, 1986;
                        Carol Wilmore, CARP, "Statement to Great Lakes Basin Commission," November 29,
                        1972, folder 2, box 1, Community Action to Reverse Pollution Collection (Calumet Regional
                        Archives).
               
                  43 Beverly Wright, Calumet Community Congress, interview with author,
                        Gary, Indiana, May 27, 1986; "Regional Consultations Leading Up to a National Platform
                        Conference for Working Class White Ethnic Communities," n.d., 5–6, box 1,
                        Calumet Community Congress Collection (Calumet Regional Archives); Richard J. Krickus,
                        "Organizing Neighborhoods: Gary and 
                            Newark
                        ," The World of the Blue Collar Worker, ed. Irving Howe (
                            New York
                        , 1972), 74, 78; Calumet Community Congress, "Resolutions Ballot,"
                        1970, personal collection of Beverly Wright (Gary, Indiana).
            
            
            In its environmental thrust, the Calumet Community Congress revived a working-class hostility toward
                    US Steel no longer sanctioned by organized labor. The hard-fought struggles to unionize the steel
                    mills earlier in the century imbued Gary's working class with a long history of antagonism
                    toward the company. After US Steel recognized the legitimacy of the steelworkers union in 1937,
                    workers continued to clash with management over wages, benefits, and shop floor work rules. Through
                    the 1950s, periodic strikes attested to strained labor-management relations. But in the 1960s, the
                    union adopted a more conciliatory approach, reasoning that workers' interests would be
                    served best by cooperative efforts to raise productivity levels. To the dismay of militant
                    steelworkers, the union avoided taking positions that might antagonize the company.44 This held particularly true for non-workplace issues. Even in the 1940s and 1950s, the
                    steelworkers union neglected the community dimensions of class conflict. Aside from some squabbling
                    over levels of public spending for education and welfare, the company and union agreed on most civic
                    matters. Consequently, when industrial pollution rekindled working-class insurgency in 1970, the
                    union was inclined to remain on the sidelines. For blue-collar workers and their families then, the
                    Calumet Community Congress provided a means of empowerment in the face of anxieties about the
                    Hatcher administration and abandonment by their union.
            Largely due to the initiatives of Mayor Hatcher, African Americans also broadened their condemnation
                    of industry's social abuses to include environmental degradation. US Steel had never
                    enjoyed popularity in the black community; discriminatory hiring practices had made the company the
                    target of civil rights campaigns since the 1940s. Hatcher shared this antagonistic outlook toward
                    the corporation; in his mind, industry was very much to blame for the economic inequities faced by
                    Gary's African Americans. Furthermore, the mayor could afford to antagonize US Steel
                    because he did not rely on the business community for political support and because the corporation
                    held little influence among African-American voters. Many years later, Hatcher recalled,
                    "What helped was that US Steel could not control the black community politically. It was
                        mine."45 Once in office, Hatcher distinguished himself from
                    previous mayors with his antagonistic stance toward US Steel. Initially, the main issue of
                    contention between the mayor and the steel company was not the environment but corporate taxes. As
                    early as 1967 Hatcher pledged to raise corporate 
                  
                     44 Richard Betheil, "The ENA in Perspective: The
                            Transformation of Collective Bargaining in the Basic Steel Industry," Review of Radical Political Economics, X (Summer, 1978), 1–24.
                  
                     45 Richard Hatcher, interview with author, Gary, Indiana, May 26,
                            1989.
               
                     taxes on the grounds that US Steel property was grossly
                    underassessed. Hatcher required revenue to finance his social programs; hence, he interpreted the
                    company's unwillingness to pay its fair share of taxes as a direct attack on the
                    city's needy. In 1968 the Hatcher administration roused the company's ire by
                    demanding to inspect US Steel's financial records. The company refused to comply, provoking
                    court battles and several years of negotiations between US Steel and the city.46
            
            Meanwhile, Hatcher opened a second front against industry, waging war against corporate polluters.
                    Hatcher understood that the quality of physical surroundings constituted an important problem for
                    Gary's African-American population. Viewed from the vantage point of leader of the black
                    community, the environmental problem, for Hatcher, was the deplorable physical condition of
                    Mid-town, the neighborhood where most blacks lived. Midtown suffered from rapid physical
                    deterioration in the decades following World War II. Overcrowding—the product of a
                    racially segregated housing market—strained the neighborhood's resources so that
                    by the 1960s, garbage piled in the streets, rats proliferated in abandoned lots, and homes became
                    dilapidated. But while Hatcher directed much of his attention to these problems, he also accorded
                    high priority to air pollution. A study indicating an unusually high level of respiratory disorders
                    in the Gary area caught Hatcher's attention during his tenure on the city council. The
                    report convinced him that factory discharges constituted a public health threat for residents near
                    the steel mills, including most of the city's black population.47 To
                    Hatcher, then, African Americans’ exposure to some of the highest air pollution levels in
                    the city represented yet another facet of corporate exploitation of the black community. Midway
                    through his first term, after many of his social programs were in place, Hatcher showcased a new
                    environmental program, calling on US Steel to slow production during temperature inversions, create
                    a steel reclamation facility, and provide a rapid transport system for its workers.48 Shortly thereafter, the mayor engineered an overhaul of the city's air pollution
                    bureaucracy, making personnel changes to improve enforcement of the local air pollution ordinance.
                    In 1971, he appointed Herschel Bornstein, a feisty local physician, as commissioner of the Gary
                    health department. 
                  
                     46 Greer, Big Steel, 161–181. Not all
                            analyses of Gary politics have emphasized Hatcher's confrontational stance toward
                            US Steel. Levine, for instance, has argued that Hatcher attempted to persuade US Steel to
                            become involved in tackling the city's social ills, particularly with regard to
                            housing. See Levine, Racial Conflict and the American Mayor,
                            76–78. Yet Hatcher's relationship with the company was far less cordial
                            than were previous mayors’ relations with the company.
                  
                     47 Hatcher interview.
                  
                     48 Gary Post-Tribune, September 16, 1970, press
                            clipping scrapbook (Gary Air Pollution Division).
               
                     Bornstein stirred controversy with his surprise factory
                    inspections. To complement Bernstein's appointment, Hatcher also reversed the pro-business
                    orientation of the Air Pollution Advisory Board by stacking the agency with environmentalists.49
            
            As part of his commitment to combat industrial pollution, Hatcher raised awareness of the problem
                    among African Americans. Prior to 1970 no black leader in Gary had emphasized air quality. Most
                    African Americans believed that pollution had little to do with them. Hatcher attempted to shatter
                    this notion. At public appearances and press conferences, the mayor hammered away at the same theme:
                    industrial emissions damaged the health of Gary's black residents; this was indeed a black
                        issue.50 A 1972 survey of African Americans suggested Hatcher's
                    effectiveness; respondents identified pollution control as one of their top concerns.51 Several black citizens became prominent advocates of environmental protection during
                    the 1970s. At times Hatcher was directly responsible, appointing blacks to government positions that
                    involved environmental matters such as director of city planning, chief of the air pollution
                    division, and manager of the Marquette Park pavilion. In other instances, black activism emerged
                    independently of the mayor, as in west Gary, where several black residents helped found the Grand
                    Calumet Task Force to combat water pollution in the Grand Calumet River.52
            
            A strong stand on air pollution, while consistent with Hatcher's attempt to improve the
                    living conditions of African Americans, also held forth promise for unifying a divided city. At a
                    time of severe racial polarization, Hatcher searched for issues that might heal racial rifts.
                    Certainly Hatcher's priorities remained with Gary's African Americans, but he also
                    coveted the support of whites in an effort to establish himself as leader of the entire city.
                    Attempting to formulate a public agenda that would address social inequities without intensifying
                    racial animosities, Hatcher directed attention to US Steel's abuse of the community. When
                    Hatcher visited homes and attended meetings in white neighborhoods, he discovered that taxes and
                    pollution were the only issues on his platform he could discuss without alienating his audience. Of
                    the two, pollution incited the greatest public response. When 
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., January 17, 1971, press clipping scrapbook (Gary Air Pollution
                            Division); ibid., April 20, 1971, personal collection of Herschel
                            Bornstein (Gary, Indiana); Herschel Bornstein, interview with author, Gary, Indiana, April
                            8, 1986; Greer, Big Steel, 190–91; Gerald W. Grandey, Lawrence
                            S. Grossman, and Alan P. Donaldson, "The Manischewitz Caper," May, 1971,
                            p. 16, unpublished term paper, Northwestern School of Law, 
                        Chicago, Illinois
                     .
                  
                     50 Hatcher interview.
                  
                     51
                            Gary Info, December 28, 1972, p. 4.
                  
                     52 Ann Anderson, Grand Calumet Task Force, interview with author,
                            Gary, Indiana, May 20, 1989.
               
                    
                    
                  RICHARD HEATCHER ADDRESSES A CARP GATHERING Courtesy Calumet Regional Archives, Indiana
                            University Northwest.
               
                     framing the pollution issue, he stressed that big business, not
                    any particular race, stood at the root of Gary's misfortunes. Hatcher summarized his
                    position in a critique of the local media for their coverage of crime in Gary, asking, "Why
                    don't the major news media in Gary subject their readers to an incessant exposure of the
                    most damaging criminal activity in all of 
                        Lake County
                    , that of US Steel, that giant industry which wrecks the health of the people by
                    belching out smoke containing two pounds of particulate matter per Gary citizen per
                        day?"53 Few issues in 1970 matched the environment in its potential
                    to appeal to diverse constituencies. By seizing the air pollution issue, Hatcher could fulfill his
                    own environmental objectives, divert public attention from racial bitterness, and maintain some
                    political support in the white community.
            Out of the social turbulence of the late 1960s arose an opportunity for Hatcher to reframe the
                    pollution issue in a way that encouraged the participation of diverse groups in an environmental
                    movement. The theme of steel company irresponsibility, propounded most explicitly by the new mayor,
                    resonated with the critique offered by disgruntled blue-collar families active in the Calumet
                    Community Congress. Suburban whites from Miller, concerned primarily with neighborhood stability,
                    were prepared to forge alliances with others who promised to support their demanding environmental
                    objectives. Thus, in the wake of social turmoil newly mobilized political forces found common ground
                    fighting industry over matters of environmental quality.
            The drive to impose harsher environmental controls on US Steel culminated in the 1970 controversy
                    over coke oven pollution. Coke manufacturing formed a vital part of US Steel's operations
                    in Gary. The company used coke to smelt iron ore in its blast furnaces. It manufactured coke by
                    baking coal at high temperatures, a process which generated enormous quantities of waste. Every time
                    workers opened an oven, either to insert coal or to remove finished coke, smoke escaped in billowing
                    black clouds. Carbon particles, sulfur oxides, hydrocarbons, and carbon monoxide drifted into
                    Gary's atmosphere uncontrolled. The carbon particles alone totaled 40,000 tons each
                        year.54 These emissions were perfectly legal because, at US Steel's
                    behest, Gary's air pollution regulations exempted coke ovens. To local environmentalists,
                    this omission was unacceptable; coke oven pollution constituted the most serious environmental
                    threat to Gary's citizens. Dense smoke from the coke plant obscured visibility on the
                    nearby interstate highway, 
                  
                     53
                            Gary Info, December 11, 1970, pp. 1, 4.
                  
                     54 Community Action to Reverse Pollution, "Why We Need
                            Ordinance #70–60," December 1, 1970, p. 1, folder 7, box 1, Community
                            Action to Reverse Pollution Collection; Grandey, Grossman, and Donaldson, "The
                            Manischewitz Caper," p. 5.
               
                     causing traffic accidents. Toxic fumes seeped into homes.55 Local physicians noted that Gary residents suffered from abnormally high
                    levels of carbon accumulation in their lungs, thus heightening the risk of cancer, emphysema, and
                        bronchitis.56 Without the compulsion of law, US Steel showed no indication
                    of ameliorating the hazardous conditions.
            The Hatcher administration initiated the process of amending the municipal smoke abatement ordinance
                    by submitting legislation to the city council during the summer of 1970.57 From
                    that point, citizen groups took charge. US Steel vehemently opposed the bill, insisting that coke
                    emission controls were technologically in-feasible. Unsure of the company's claims, the
                    city council moved in September to table the bill for three months. This delay gave community groups
                    the time to mobilize citizen pressure and to investigate US Steel's assertions. CARP
                    members read technical literature and consulted with chemists, engineers, and union officials. They
                    discovered that US Steel was wrong; methods existed to reduce coke oven smoke.58
                    Meanwhile, the Calumet Community Congress devoted its energies to publicity. Its members convened
                    public meetings, circulated petitions, and held demonstrations to convince local legislators of the
                    widespread community support for the bill.59 War On Poverty volunteers, working
                    in Gary under the auspices of the VISTA program, provided a bridge between white environmentalists
                    and concerned citizens in the black community. VISTA assigned young men and women from around the
                    country to community projects in inner city neighborhoods; between 1969 and 1971, VISTA staffers in
                    Gary, who were predominantly white, established a recreational center, organized a food cooperative,
                    administered a breakfast program, and encouraged parents to become more involved with local schools.
                    Because they lived in Midtown and interacted with residents there daily, VISTA workers were among
                    the few whites who earned the trust of African Americans. When Hatcher raised the issue of coke oven
                    pollution, two VISTA staffers, Phil Starr and Robert Baer, assumed the role of coordinating the
                    activities of the various social groups. Starr and Baer solicited 
                  
                     55 Testimony of Ted Falls, Northwest Indiana Clean Air Co-Ordinating
                            Committee, before Gary Air Pollution Control Advisory Board, September 3, 1970, Beck
                            Collection.
                  
                     56 Jack 
                                Troy
                            , M.D., Committee on Environmental Health, Indiana Chapter, American Academy of
                            Pediatrics, to Gary, Indiana, City Council, December 15, 1970, folder 7, box 1, Community
                            Action to Reverse Pollution Collection; Gary Post-Tribune, April 22, 1973,
                            press clipping collection (Gary Public Library).
                  
                     57 Gary Post-Tribune, March 8, 1970, B-l; ibid., September 12, 1970, press clipping scrapbook (Gary Public Library);
                            Hatcher interview.
                  
                     58 Helen Hoock, testimony before Gary, Indiana, city council on behalf
                            of CARP, December 15, 1970, folder 7, box 1, Community Action to Reverse Pollution
                            Collection.
                  
                     59 Gary Post-Tribune, December 15, 1970, B-3.
               
                     support by talking with people in the housing projects and
                    settlement houses. Starr and Baer proved particularly successful with young gang members, convincing
                    them to appear at city council hearings. The mayor's strong position on coke oven pollution
                    undoubtedly helped Starr and Baer; Hatcher had made a special effort to cultivate a healthy
                    relationship with black youth gangs.60
            
            Reflecting widespread hostility toward US Steel, the community campaign for coke oven control assumed
                    a confrontational tone. The corporation remained adamant in its refusal to compromise. Company
                    representatives warned that any such amendment might force it to curtail coke manufacturing, thus
                    placing thousands out of work.61 The citizen groups, too, adopted a hard line
                    and directed venomous criticism against the steel company. The Calumet Community Congress's
                    rhetoric attacked US Steel's exploitation of Gary's citizens. The group pestered
                    steel executives, challenging the superintendent of Gary Works to appear before its membership to
                    defend his position.62 Hatcher chided US Steel for its "thinly veiled
                    blackmail threats that the corporation might have to close down the mills."63 Black youths appearing before the city council accused US Steel or ruining their lives
                    by subjecting them to unhealthy conditions. Emotions ran so high that "Donut," the
                    defense minister of a black youth gang, warned the council that his entourage would be waiting in
                    the parking lot for anyone who failed to vote for the amendment.64
            
            The campaign to arouse public indignation against the steel company and to unleash citizen pressure
                    on the city council succeeded. In one week, the Calumet Community Congress gathered 2,500 signatures
                    on a petition in favor of the ordinance.65 On the night of the city council
                    vote, the Congress marshalled a crowd of 350 angry citizens into the chamber to demonstrate public
                    support for the measure. Mayor Hatcher made a personal appearance to plead before local legislators.
                    Although several weeks earlier the chances for the bill's passage seemed uncertain at best,
                    public pressure contributed to a unanimous city council vote in favor of coke emission control.66
            
            
               
                  60 Starr interview; Frady, "Gary, Indiana," 38.
               
                  61 Gary Post-Tribune, September 16, 1970, press clipping
                        scrapbook (Gary Public Library, Gary, Indiana)
               
                  62
                        Ibid., December 15, 1970, p. 1.
               
                  63
                        Ibid., December 16, 1970, p. 1.
               
                  64 Not all groups were so indignant or hostile to US Steel. The Junior
                        Chamber of Commerce, a major proponent of the 1962 ordinance, lent a qualified endorsement to
                        the coke oven bill; it specifically noted in its letter to the council that the Jaycees were not
                        "anti-US Steel." Gary Post-Tribune, December 15, 1970, B-3;
                        Starr interview.
               
                  65 Calumet Community Congress Executive Committee Meeting Minutes for
                        December 16, 1970, Wright Collection.
               
                  66 Krickus, "Organizing Neighborhoods: Gary and 
                            Newark
                        ," 78–79.
            
            
            The confrontation with US Steel over coke ovens forced the issues of manufacturing procedures and
                    technology into the realm of public debate. Prior air pollution regulations had set permissible
                    emission levels and left the matter of attainment to the corporation. The coke oven affair
                    demonstrated that by 1970 citizens no longer accepted the corporation's authority to decide
                    what was technologically feasible. While city officials and environmentalists conceded that full
                    compliance with the new law would have to wait until US Steel had time to install sophisticated
                    pollution control devices, they insisted that the company take specific interim steps. Some of these
                    measures involved minor housekeeping improvements: sealing cracks on oven doors, replacing oven lids
                    immediately after charging, and using only the cleanest furnaces at times of lowered production.
                    Other demands required more substantial changes in the production process. One of the sore points
                    among environmentalists was a technique known as the "green push" whereby the
                    company baked coke prematurely for the sake of speeding production. CARP argued that incomplete
                    cooking increased the amount of unfused coke particles released into the atmosphere; the group
                    insisted that the company be required to keep coal in the ovens until it was fully baked.
                    Furthermore, it recommended that US Steel reduce the amount of coal baked during each cycle.67 When Judge James Richards upheld the coke oven law in federal court in May,
                    1972, he incorporated these procedures in his decision.68 By the mid-1970s, US
                    Steel management had acquiesced; the company rebuilt oven doors, improved furnace maintenance, and
                    required workers to pay attention to proper coking times.69
            
            The citizen coalition behind the coke oven crusade represented a novel social alignment. Groups that
                    often stood on opposite sides of issues joined forces against industrial pollution. For instance,
                    the coke oven campaign marked the first time that Gary's black citizens worked
                    cooperatively with white environmentalists. While young people played the most active role, several
                    black organizations publicly endorsed the coke oven amendment. Hence, the list of groups in support
                    of the measure contained some odd bedfellows; the National Asssociation for the Advancement of
                    Colored People and the Aid to Families with Dependent Children Mothers Organization stood alongside
                    the Dune Homemakers Club and the League 
                  
                     67 Community Action to Reverse Pollution, "Friend of the
                            Court Statement to Gary Air Pollution Appeal Board," July 7, 1971, personal
                            collection of 
                                Milton
                             Roth (Highland, Indiana); Community Action to Reverse Pollution, "Why
                            We Need Ordinance #70–60."
                  
                     68 Donald Dreyfus, Attorney, Gary Health Department, "Coke
                            Plant Decision Affirmed," press release, May, 1972, Bornstein Collection.
                  
                     69 Victor Nordlund, USX Corporation, interview with author, Gary,
                            Indiana, May 20, 1986; Gary Post-Tribune, June 29, 1972, press clipping
                            scrapbook.
               
                     of Women Voters.70 Further enhancing the
                    novelty of the social alignment was the limited contribution made by Gary's traditional
                    organized power groups. Ethnic associations were nowhere to be found while organized labor played
                    only a minimal role in the affair. Orval Kincaid, the sub-district director of the steelworkers
                    union, promised to circulate petitions among workers, but he never submitted the completed forms.
                    Indeed, the only show of support from organized labor occurred on the night of the city council vote
                    when Kincaid and another union leader testified on behalf of the bill.71
            
            Gary's coke oven regulations, imposed on US Steel despite company resistance, resulted from
                    the emergence of a political coalition that did not hold economic growth as its primary objective.
                    Certainly, neither the recently mobilized black community nor the white organizations opposed
                    material prosperity. Yet, these groups did not always see their interest served by unbridled
                    industrial production. Mayor Hatcher could hardly place undying faith in economic growth when blacks
                    had been denied the rewards of prosperity. Gary's white environmentalists sought further
                    limitations on private enterprise when the consequences of industrial production threatened the
                    amenities that came to define the middle-class lifestyle. CARP's slogan,
                    "Opposition to blind progress, not blind opposition to progress," neatly captured
                    the tempered middle-class attitude toward economic expansion. Although the social developments
                    responsible for the reorientation in values took place gradually in the decades after World War II,
                    it was not until racial tensions destroyed the growth-oriented political structure in the late 1960s
                    that the new coalition was able to transform the basis of public policy.
            Within a few years after the coke oven victory, the fragility of the environmental coalition became
                    apparent. A downturn in the local economy exposed cracks in the once solid community front against
                    industry. US Steel laid off thousands of workers at Gary Works during the steel slump of the 1970s.
                    By the end of the decade, Gary's unemployment rate topped 14 percent.72
                    For those whose livelihoods depended on steel production, economic security became an overriding
                    concern once again. Citizens grew more susceptible to the steel company's threats to shut
                    down operations if it were pushed too hard on environmental matters. Hence, those who felt most
                    vulnerable to job loss, blacks and lower-income whites, withdrew their support for stringent
                    environmental controls. 
                  
                     70 Helen Hoock, testimony on behalf of CARP, December 15, 1970.
                  
                     71 Hoock interview; Gary Post-Tribune, December 16,
                            1970, p. 1.
                  
                     72 U.S. Census, 1980 Census of Population and Housing,
                                Census Tracts, Gary-
                                    Hammond
                                -E. 
                                    Chicago
                                , Ind., PHC-80–2–169, page P62.
               
                    
                    
                  CARP PICNIC NEAR LAKE MICHIGAN Courtesy Calumet Regional Archives, Indiana University
                            Northwest.
                Only affluent professionals from Miller, at least one step removed from the steel economy,
                    could afford to maintain constant vigilance against industry without fear of immediate retribution.
                    Local political leaders found it increasingly difficult to take a strong stand against industry when
                    public pressure on behalf of environmental reform came from only one section of the city.
            The fissures in the environmental coalition appeared most clearly in 1974 when the Environmental
                    Protection Agency attempted to close US Steel's open-hearth furnaces. In an earlier
                    agreement with local, state, and federal authorities, US Steel had vowed to replace its open-hearth
                    furnaces with cleaner basic-oxygen furnaces by the end of 1974. As the deadline approached, the
                    corporation asked for an extension, threatening to dismiss 4,000 workers if the authorities refused.
                    The local steelworkers union, which had previously refrained from active engagement in pollution
                    matters, begged the city to keep the mills open. Miller activists, on the other hand, argued that
                    the furnaces should be closed as scheduled. Mayor Hatcher, lobbied intensively by labor, civil
                    rights leaders, and environmental groups retreated from his uncompromising environmental stance and
                    attempted to occupy a middle ground. Hatcher supported a six-month extension with the  stipulation that US Steel pay a hefty fine.73 By
                    shifting the debate away from health and community power to an issue of jobs, Hatcher could no
                    longer determine the form of community outrage; hence, industry regained the upper hand in the
                    formulation of environmental policy.74
            
            Gary's history demonstrates how the political activities of lower-income groups influenced
                    the character and effectiveness of environmental reform. The roles played by African Americans and
                    ethnic industrial workers in Gary's environmental struggles varied considerably, from
                    non-involvement, to active support, to blatant opposition. Where they stood along this spectrum at
                    any given time made a difference. Only when the environmental movement incorporated these groups,
                    along with affluent whites, did Gary's environmentalists attain the clout necessary to
                    challenge the steel company successfully. While historians, most notably Samuel Hays, have
                    convincingly explained the rise of environmentalism among affluent Americans, the factors that
                    inspired minority and working-class involvement in the movement are less understood. Gary's
                    history illuminates the social and political forces that, in one instance, produced a multi-racial
                    and multi-class environmental coalition. Timing was critical. The collapse of the old political
                    regime that had placed primacy on economic growth permitted 
                  
                     73 Gary Post-Tribune, December 11, 1974, press
                            clipping scrapbook; ibid., December 19, 1974, press clipping scrapbook;
                                ibid., December 20, 1974, press clipping scrapbook; ibid., December 21, 1974, press clipping scrapbook; ibid., December
                            23, 1974, press clipping scrapbook; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, January 5, 1975, p. 43; Greer, Big Steel,
                            194–95; Ezell Cooper, NAACP and United Steelworkers of America, interview with
                            author, Griffith, Indiana, May 16, 1989.
                  
                     74 Indeed, anxiety about offending industry eventually led voters to
                            turn Hatcher out of office in 1987 in favor of a candidate who promised to cultivate
                            friendlier relations with big business. 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, May 7, 1987, sec. A, p. 16. The shift in local environmental
                            politics prefigured a parallel shift in the realm of national politics. Between 1973 and
                            1977, the Environmental Protection Agency launched a series of lawsuits against US Steel for
                            violating national air and water quality standards. While municipal government reverted to
                            negotiating with the steel company, the federal government preferred to prosecute. See Gary
                                Post-Tribune, January 25, 1973, B-l; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Sun-Times, December 11, 1975, press clipping scrapbook (Calumet Regional
                            Archives); Edgar Speer, chairman of US Steel Corporation to Management, February 23, 1976,
                            Beck Collection; Greer, Big Steel, 201–202. By the late 1970s,
                            however, the federal government's enthusiasm began to wane. Pressure from organized
                            labor to protect jobs and high inflation rates convinced the Jimmy Carter administration to
                            consider the economic cost of regulation when pursuing environmental criminals. The Reagan
                            administration demonstrated even more sensitivity to the costs incurred by businesses
                            subjected to environmental controls. In particular, sympathy for the ailing steel industry
                            prompted the federal government, in 1981, to pass the Steel Industry Compliance Extension
                            Act which allowed steel companies to defer pollution control expenditures for three years.
                            By the 1980s, the steel industry encountered little governmental pressure to further reduce
                            air pollution. See Walter A. Rosenbaum, Environmental Politics and Policy (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1985), 23; Hays, Beauty, Health, and Permanence,
                            298–300, 313; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 6, 1987, F-6; Edward Wojciechowski, Environmental
                            Protection Agency, Region V, interview with author, 
                        Chicago, Illinois
                     ,
                            May 19, 1989.
               
                     Mayor Hatcher to reconstruct the environmental agenda. By
                    embedding the air pollution problem in a comprehensive critique of corporate power in urban society,
                    Hatcher articulated a version of environmentalism that appealed to a diverse constituency.
            While the social turbulence of the late 1960s called existing political arrangements into question
                    throughout urban America, the dynamics of community revolt varied considerably. In many cities, the
                    broad outlines of political change mirrored the situation in Gary: heightened racial conflict
                    redirected civic priorities from urban redevelopment and business prosperity to the politics of
                    neighborhood played out in controversies over schools, housing, and the distribution of city
                    services. For African Americans, the crucial issues were control of community institutions and an
                    end to racial discrimination. Where they enjoyed numerical majorities, African Americans attempted
                    to elect black mayors, a strategy that met with success in 
                  Cleveland, Newark, Detroit
               , and 
                        Atlanta
                     between 1967 and 1973. But blacks were not alone in employing spatial concentration as
                    a political resource. Many white residents formed neighborhood organizations to defend their
                    communities against rapid racial change, highway construction, and unsightly commercial development.
                    Affluent white activists around the country—those who opposed the winter Olympics in 
                        Denver
                    , or blocked the Mount Hood expressway in 
                        Portland
                    , or organized to stop high-rise construction in Seattle—all rejected growth
                    schemes in the name of preserving neighborhood stability and environmental amenities. Lower-income
                    residents launched similar protests when urban renewal projects threatened to displace them from
                    their neighborhoods. According to some worried observers, the full effect of these citizen demands
                    for social justice, neighborhood stability, and the preservation of residential amenities,
                    articulated through grass-roots organizations, amounted to no less than a "community
                        revolution."75 While this political upheaval involved a wide range
                    of social groups, the formation of alliances was difficult to predict. Many groups advanced their
                    causes independently; mutual distrust between blacks and whites often impeded collaborative efforts.
                    Exceptions occurred when political entrepreneurs deliberately engineered broad-based coalitions, as
                    in 
                        Atlanta
                     where Maynard Jackson, the city's first African-American mayor, won election
                    in 1973 with the support of disaffected blacks and 
                  
                     75 See Daniel Bell and 
                                Virginia
                             Held, "The Community Revolution," The Public
                                Interest, XVI (Summer, 1969), 142–77. For information on the dynamics of
                            community protests in specific cities see: Carl Abbott, The New Urban America:
                                Growth Politics in Sunbelt Cities (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 1987), 200–201, 214–43; John H. Mollenkopf, The Contested City (
                                Princeton
                            , 1983), 180–212. On the potentials of anti-growth coalitions in
                            urban politics see Harvey Molotch, "The City as a Growth Machine: Toward a
                            Political Economy of Place," American Journal of Sociology,
                            LXXXII (September, 1976), 325–27.
               
                     white liberals concerned with community amenities.76 In 
                        Boston
                     and 
                        San Francisco
                     black and white residents facing the common threat of displacement by urban renewal
                    projects joined forces in opposition to local governments that placed a higher priority on economic
                    growth than social welfare.77
            
            A rejection of growth politics, however, did not require a frontal assault on corporations; despite
                    the political challenges posed by protest groups and neighborhood associations, the community
                    revolution rarely translated into a sweeping attack on corporate power. Ira Katznelson, a political
                    scientist, suggested that African Americans in the late 1960s had the unique ability to develop a
                    comprehensive critique of power relations in urban society because they detected a common thread of
                    racism pervading both workplace and community.78 By this standard, the
                    performance of most African-American mayors was disappointing; few confronted local business elites.
                    Carl Stokes of 
                        Cleveland
                    , Tom Bradley of 
                        Los Angeles
                    , and Kenneth Gibson of 
                        Newark
                     cultivated ties with local business leaders to cement their political coalitions.79 Revolts against development projects in low-income neighborhoods usually
                    targeted local governments rather than specific corporations. Hence, those most capable of
                    developing a class analysis of corporate power in the community failed to do so. Ironically, the
                    most significant assault on business prerogatives in the late 1960s came from those affluent whites
                    who championed environmental protection. Certainly, environmentalists benefitted from the
                    reorientation of American politics as the weakening of pro-growth politics opened a wedge for causes
                    that affluent citizens identified as pressing public needs. But African Americans and working-class
                    whites remained largely on the periphery of the drive to reduce pollution. Thus, environmentalists
                    found little incentive to extend their critique of corporate behavior beyond those matters that
                    affected the quality of residential life.
            What then accounted for the difference in Gary? What factors brought together disparate elements of
                    the revolt against growth politics into an anti-corporate environmental coalition? Certainly Hatcher
                    deserves credit for seizing a unique historical opportunity by recasting the pollution issue to
                    incorporate environmental concerns and a more comprehensive critique of US Steel's role in
                    the community. But certain circumstances peculiar to Gary made his 
                  
                     76 Abbott, The New Urban America, 229–32.
                  
                     77 Mollenkopf, The Contested City,
                            184–90.
                  
                     78 Ira Katznelson, City Trenches: Urban Politics and the
                                Patterning of Race in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1981), 106, 114–15.
                  
                     79 Manning Marable, Black American Politics: From the 
                                    Washington
                                 Marches to Jesse Jackson (
                                London
                            , 1975), 166, 169; Levine, Racial Conflict and the American
                            Mayor, 56–61.
               
                     task easier. First, in a one-industry town US Steel provided an
                    obvious target, bringing community antagonism to a convenient focus. The company's callous
                    attitude toward environmental protection merely added fuel to the fire. Second, the severity and
                    pervasiveness of air pollution made it easy to convince diverse members of urban society that
                    environmental reform was in their interest. Third, and perhaps most importantly, economic prosperity
                    defused US Steel's threats about job loss. With a low unemployment rate, steelworkers did
                    not fear that their environmental stance would cost them their jobs. The rapid collapse of the
                    environmental coalition with the onset of recession exposed the vulnerability of lower-income
                    groups, even as resentment toward the steel company lingered. Here again the broader historical
                    context was crucial. Shortly after the political empowerment of lower-income groups opened the way
                    for a more aggressive environmental agenda in Gary, the economic downturn reduced the
                    community's leverage against industry, thereby shattering the coalition.
            Although the history of environmental politics in Gary was unusual, the chronology of environmental
                    regulation—mild measures until the late 1960s, tough, anti-corporate policies around
                    1970, and then a lenient approach toward industry by the mid-1970s—paralleled national
                    trends. And while blacks and working-class whites rarely occupied leadership positions in the
                    environmental movement, their public position often affected the outcome of national environmental
                    controversies. The 1973 energy crisis marked a turning point in environmental politics; as the
                    economy deteriorated environmentalists suffered a series of setbacks caused, in part, by overt
                    opposition from trade unionists and African Americans. Driven by the promise of new jobs, the
                    AFL-CIO, United Automobile Workers, National Oil Jobbers Council, and the Seafarers International
                    Union of North America lobbied successfully for congressional authorization of the Trans-Alaska
                    pipeline in 1973, a project opposed by the Wilderness Society, the Environmental Defense Fund, and
                    Friends of the Earth. Four years later, the United Automobile Workers, frightened about layoffs,
                    foiled environmentalists’ attempts to strengthen automobile emission standards.80 Likewise, black members of Congress who consistently backed tough
                    environmental legislation in the early 1970s offered only lukewarm support later in the decade.
                    Whereas in 1970 the League of Conservation Voters gave black members of 
                  
                     80 Lynton 
                                Caldwell
                            , Lynton K. Hayes, and Isabel MacWhirter, Citizens and the
                                Environment: Case Studies in Popular Action (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1976), 227–38; Kazis and Grossman, Fear at Work,
                            249.
               
                     the House of Representatives an average score of 90 for their
                    environmental voting record, by 1980, the figure dropped to 77.81
            
            These developments underscored the limitations of a movement restricted to affluent whites, prompting
                    several scholars and activists to recommend a broader social foundation. In a recent book on the
                    future of environmental politics, Robert Paehlke argued that any political program constructed
                    around narrowly defined environmental goals will not generate the mass support necessary for
                    political success. Environmentalists, he emphasized, must construct coalitions with those groups
                    concerned about excessive military spending, funding for education, health, and the arts, and social
                        justice.82 Barry Commoner pressed the matter further by renewing the call
                    for an anti-corporate environmental movement, claiming that such an emphasis could unite a wide
                    array of social groups dismayed with corporate behavior, including those with concerns about racial
                    discrimination, uneven tax burdens, and consumer safety. Commoner argued that only this sort of
                    coalition would likely confront the production technologies employed by industry, an essential
                    strategy for meaningful environmental reform.83 If environmental activists do
                    follow the path suggested by Commoner and articulate an anti-corporate environmental philosophy,
                    they may find themselves duplicating the spirit of Gary's broad-based coalition.
            
               
                  81 The highest rating given was 100. Michael Barone, Grant Ujifusa, and
                        Douglas Matthews, The Almanac of American Politics: The Senators, the
                            Representatives, their Records, States, and Districts, 1972 (1972); Michael Barone and
                        Grant Ujifusa, The Almanac of American Politics: The Senators, the Representatives,
                            their Records, States, and Districts, 1983 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1983).
               
                  82 Robert Paehlke, Environmentalism and the Future of
                            Progressive Politics (
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., 1989), 276–77.
               
                  83 Barry Commoner, "The Environment," New
                            Yorker, LXIII (July, 1987), 57–69.
            
         
         
         
            Two Hoosiers and the Two Food Laws of 1906
            
                    James Harvey Young
                    *
                
            On a broiling day in the nation's capital at the end of July, 1906, the first session of the
                    Fifty-ninth Congress came to an end after a frantic flurry of last-minute legislating. President
                    Theodore Roosevelt journeyed from the White House up Pennsylvania Avenue to sign bills into law
                    before departing the same afternoon for the comparative coolness and quiet of Oyster Bay.1
            
            Among the new laws, two are of particular interest: one, a measure providing the first broad
                    authority enacted by the Congress to control adulteration and misbranding of foods and drugs; the
                    other, an agricultural appropriations act containing an amendment aimed at safeguarding the domestic
                    meat supply.2 Both of these laws had linked to them, at the time and in
                    subsequent history, the names of men closely associated with Indiana. Harvey 
                        Washington
                     Wiley, Hoosier born and raised, has been properly called "father" of
                    the Pure Food and Drugs Act. Albert Jeremiah Beveridge, a Hoosier beginning with his college days,
                    has been accorded paternity of the meat amendment. Roosevelt sent Beveridge the pen with which he
                    signed the agriculture law. Wiley asked the president for the pen used in signing the food and drug
                    law, but too late; Roosevelt had given it already to a member of Congress.3
            
            
               
                  * James Harvey Young, Charles Howard Candler Professor of
                        American Social History Emeritus, Emory University, 
                     Atlanta, Georgia
                  , presented this
                        paper at the annual meeting of the Indiana Historical Society on November 2, 1991.
                        Young's research has centered on the history of health quackery and of food and drug
                        regulation in America. He is at work on a book concerning the way in which the Food and Drugs
                        Act of 1906 was enforced until replaced by the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938.
               
                  1 Genevieve Hoehn Bellis, "Passage of the First Food and Drugs
                        Act," Food and Drug Review, L (June 30, 1966), 182–84,
                        213–15.
               
                  2 34 U.S. Stat. 768 and 674.
               
                  3 Theodore Roosevelt to Albert J. Beveridge, June 30, 1906, Albert J.
                        Beveridge Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.); William Loeb, Jr. (Roosevelt's secretary) to Thomas R. Shipp, July
                        12, 1906, Harvey W. Wiley Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress).
               INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY. LXXXVIII (December, 1992) 1992 Trustees of Indiana
                    University.
            
            
            In July, 1906, Wiley was sixty-one, Beveridge forty-three.4 Wiley had been born
                    in October, 1844, in a log cabin on a farm not far from 
                        Madison
                    . His formal elementary schooling was scanty, supplemented by home teaching. In
                    1863—the year before Beveridge was born in a more elegant farmhouse in southeastern 
                        Ohio
                    —Wiley had walked the five miles from his home to enroll in 
                        Hanover
                     College. A year later he dropped out of school to join the Union Army. Sent to
                    Tullahoma, 
                        Tennessee
                    , he helped guard a supply depot, where once on picket duty he exchanged fire with
                    Confederate troops. Wiley sensed the ironies of existence: "Had I been born seven miles
                    farther south," he later observed, "I probably would have been a Confederate
                        soldier."5 In 
                        Tennessee
                    , Wiley became ill with malaria and severe diarrhea, which in later years he assumed to
                    have been caused by hookworm infection. Invalided out of service after five months of duty, he
                    returned to 
                        Hanover
                     and graduated in 1867.
            Beveridge's father had been a Union officer away at war at the time of his son's
                    birth. In the postwar depression the father lost the 
                        Ohio
                     farm and, in 1866, moved his family across Indiana to another farm in east central 
                        Illinois
                    , near Sullivan. But he was not successful there, either as farmer, butcher, or
                    storekeeper. Young Albert had to work hard at various jobs—on farms, on the railroad, in
                    lumber camps—to help support the family. He nevertheless managed to get more formal
                    elementary and high school training than Wiley had received. In 1881, with financial help from a
                    local lumberman, Beveridge crossed the state line and enrolled at Indiana Asbury University, soon to
                    change its name to DePauw.
            College played an important role in the development of both Wiley and Beveridge. From boyhood both
                    had been voracious readers, so, although both came to college deficient in requirements, they
                    quickly made these up and consistently got excellent grades. Wiley seemed more impressed than
                    Beveridge with the academic aspects of college, especially his chemistry course taught by the acting
                    president, John W. Scott, father-in-law of Benjamin Harrison. Both young men, however, found the
                    extracurricular literary clubs as valuable as the classroom. Wiley was initially timid in front of
                    audiences, but his club forced him into public speaking. He rehearsed his declamations in the open
                    at a waterfall with trees 
                  
                     4 The summaries of Wiley's and Beveridge's lives are
                            taken from Wiley, Harvey W. Wiley: An Autobiography (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1930); Oscar E. Anderson, Jr., The Health of a Nation: Harvey W.
                                Wiley and the Fight for Pure Food (
                                Chicago
                            , 1958); William Lloyd Fox, "Harvey W. Wiley: The Formative
                            Years" (Ph.D dissertation, George 
                                Washington
                             University, 1960); Claude G. Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive
                                Era (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1932); and John Braeman, Albert J. Beveridge: American
                                Nationalist (
                                Chicago
                            , 1971). Footnotes to these works will be supplied below only for quotations.
                  
                     5 Wiley, Autobiography, 73.
               
                     and rocks for audience. One of his presentations, on health,
                    Wiley remembered as a precursor of his entire career. "Not only does physical beauty and
                    symmetry depend in a great degree upon the kind and quantity of food," his speech
                    concluded, "but also mental power and moral excellence."6
            
            Beveridge, who had taken to public speaking in high school, earned fame and prize money as an orator
                    in college. In his senior year he won the Interstate Oratorical Contest, a signal honor, and he made
                    campaign speeches throughout Indiana for the Republican presidential candidate, James G. Elaine.
                    Like Wiley earlier, Beveridge went into the woods alone to practice his orations.
            Both Wiley and Beveridge were staunch Republicans and regarded Lincoln as their hero. (Incidentally,
                    they both admired Napoleon too.) Both were patriotic, Wiley less flamboyantly so than Beveridge,
                    although Wiley remained a member of the Grand Army of the Republic all his life. Religion had been
                    central to the upbringing of both young men, Wiley in the Campbellite persuasion, Beveridge a
                    Methodist. Beveridge's first college oration explained how Christ transcended Confucius,
                    Buddha, and Plato. Wiley, however, moved away from orthodoxy beginning in college where fellow
                    students accused him of harboring Unitarian perspectives. Both young men were intensely ambitious to
                    rise above their humble origins, and each left college having in mind the profession in which to
                    make his mark, for Wiley medicine, for Beveridge the law.
            In 1868 Wiley crossed the river to 
                        Kentucky
                     and served a short apprenticeship with a physician whom he had met while serving in the
                    army. He then came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     simultaneously attending the newly opened Indiana Medical College and teaching Greek
                    and Latin at Northwestern Christian University, shortly to be renamed 
                        Butler
                    . In 1871 he received his M.D. degree. Wiley then taught chemistry at three schools at
                    once, the college, the medical school, and the city high school, as well as giving an evening quiz
                    course for medical students. He interrupted these labors in 1873 to spend less than six months at 
                        Harvard
                     adding to his M.D. a B.S. degree in chemistry.
            All this while Wiley retained the expectation that he would soon enter medical practice, but this
                    plan receded further from reality in 1874 when he was appointed chemistry professor at newly
                    launched Purdue University. An imaginative and innovative teacher, Wiley also became increasingly
                    interested in research, in particular the analysis of foods. In 1878 he spent some months in 
                        Germany
                    , the heartland of food chemistry, learning the techniques of the scientific pioneers.
                    Back at Purdue Wiley functioned also as 
                  
                     6 Cited in Anderson, Health of a Nation, 8.
               
                     state chemist by action of the legislature and wrote his first
                    report on adulteration, in which he revealed how sugar syrups sold in Indiana were mixed with
                    unlabeled cheaper glucose. He worked at trying to make sorghum a satisfactory source of sugar. By
                    presenting papers at scientific and food trade meetings and by publishing articles, Wiley developed
                    an expanding reputation in the scientific community. In 1883, there having developed a rift between
                    the commissioner of agriculture in 
                        Washington
                     and his chief chemist, the former decided to fire the latter and offer Wiley the job.
            On campus, Wiley had met problems that caused him unhap-piness: financial stringency, the lack of a
                    free spirit of inquiry, and petty regulations. Typical was the infamous bicycle incident of 1880.
                    Wiley bought a nickel-plated bike with a high front wheel and small back wheel and, wearing the
                    fashionable costume that included knee britches, rode his machine over the 
                        Wabash
                     bridge onto the campus. Later, summoned to a meeting of the trustees, he was chided for
                    discrediting faculty dignity. Wiley immediately wrote out his resignation, but the trustees did not
                    accept it. The Purdue presidency had become vacant by the time Wiley received his offer from 
                        Washington
                    . He actively campaigned for the post, but his unorthodox opinions and bachelor status
                    stood in his way. The trustees picked another man, and Wiley departed his native state to take up
                    residence in the nation's capital. Beveridge, be it noted, was at this time halfway through
                    his college career.
            Before Wiley received the post of chief chemist in the Department of Agriculture, two other chief
                    chemists had been chosen from Indiana. Charles Mayer Wetherill was living in 
                        Lafayette
                    , having married a woman from that town, when President Abraham Lincoln appointed him
                    the first chief chemist in 1862.7 Before going to 
                        Washington
                    , Wetherill had issued a warning in the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Daily Courier about the hazards of candy dyed with poisonous colors. He had found
                    arsenite of copper in confections that had made some 
                        Lafayette
                     children sick. The other Hoosier to hold the position, Ryland T. 
                        Brown
                    , had been one of Wiley's own professors at Indiana Medical College.8
            
            During the first decade of Wiley's career in 
                        Washington
                    , his energies were devoted almost entirely to expanding domestic sources of sugar, a
                    subject of bitter controversy. Along the way, Wiley researched methods of making alcohol from
                    sorghum and cornstalks, predicting that alcohol would be "the fuel of the autocar of the
                        future."9 Wiley was the third resident of 
                        Washington
                     to get 
                  
                     7 Edgar Fahs Smith, "Charles Mayer Wetherill,
                            1825–1871," Journal of Chemical Education, VI
                            (September, 1929), 1472.
                  
                     8 Wallace F. Janssen, "FDA's First
                            Scientists," memorandum, June 14, 1982, History Office, U.S. Food and Drug
                            Administration, 
                        Rockville, Maryland
                     ; Wiley, Autobiography, 98.
                  
                     9 Cited in Fox, "Harvey W. Wiley,"
                            380–81.
               
                    
                    
                  HARVEY WASHINGTON WILEY IN His BUREAU OFFICE OF CHEMISTRY Courtesy History Office, U.S. Food
                            and Drug Administration.
               
                     a car, the first to have an accident. However, in a period
                    during which governmental scientific bureaus were developing the problem-solving method of wrestling
                    with their tasks, the Division of Chemistry required a broader concern than sugar if it was to
                    compete successfully for status and funds. Wiley found that mightier mission in the purity of all
                    food. While at Purdue he had investigated the adulteration of syrups, and he addressed this problem
                    anew in his first annual report as chief chemist. Soon he began a systematic analysis of different
                    categories of foods and how they might be tampered with by unscrupulous or hard-pressed processors.
                    In 1887 the first volume of Foods and Food Adulterants was published, dealing with
                    butter, oleomargarine, and milk. Over the next sixteen years nine more parts of this famous Bulletin
                    13 were to follow, the total filling 1,400 pages and examining virtually all the contents of a
                    well-stocked pantry.10
            
            As consumers moved ever farther from the growers of food, and as manufacturers sought to supply the
                    expanding urban marketplace, food processing became more complicated. Wiley noted great advantages
                    in this trend—the remote logger could now enjoy a wider variety of viands than Queen
                    Elizabeth could have dined on—but he also detected tumbling ethical standards in labeling
                    and increasing risks to health. The chief chemist became especially suspicious of copper and zinc
                    salts, aniline dyes, and chemical preservatives—borax, formaldehyde, salicylic and
                    benzoic acids—put into cans with food. In the mid-1890s Wiley joined with state
                    agricultural chemists in an effort to revive an earlier movement, now sagging, to secure a national
                    law protecting the purity of foods.
            The first such broad bill had been introduced into the Congress four years before Wiley came to 
                        Washington
                    .11 The initiative behind it came not from public health reformers
                    but from businessmen threatened by competitors who could cut prices by adulterating their wares.
                    Such bills had been before Congress ever since, making progress only once, in 1892 at the peak of
                    Populism, when a bill did pass the Senate but not the House. A few one-product bills fared better:
                    in 1886 irate farmers got a tax put on oleomargarine, calling it a "greasy
                    counterfeit" food that was often sold as butter.12
            
            The efforts of Wiley and his allies among state chemists began to bear fruit. In 1898 government
                    officials, along with representatives 
                  
                     10 Bulletin 13, Foods and Food Adulterants: Vol. I,
                                Dairy Products (
                                Washington
                            , B.C., 1887).
                  
                     11 The history of the developing food and drug bill is traced in
                            Anderson, Health of a Nation, and in James Harvey Young, Pure
                                Food: Securing the Federal Food and Drugs Act of 1906 (
                                Princeton
                            , 1989).
                  
                     12 Thomas Palmer in Congressional Record, 49 Cong.,
                            1 sess., 1886, p. 7088.
               
                     from farm groups, professional societies, food and drug
                    manufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers, convened the National Pure Food and Drug Congress in 
                        Washington
                    . They sought to revise the terms of the current draft bill to make it sufficiently
                    satisfactory to all interests that Congress would finally pass it. Some progress was made, but
                    neither this conference nor two similar ones in succeeding years managed to frame a document that
                    Congress would accept. Too many disparate points of view prevented the perfect compromise, and
                    public opinion did not yet feel deeply about the issue.
            Wiley played a central negotiating role at the private sector conferences, but these events did not
                    garner him many headlines. He continued quiet diplomatic efforts at coalition building by letter and
                    conversation, thereby winning the medical profession, women's club members, segments of the
                    business community, and key members of Congress to stronger and more active support of a food law.
                    Moreover, the chief chemist emerged more prominently into the public eye, becoming recognized as the
                    most ardent champion of the pure food cause. In 1899 and 1900 a Senate committee held the most
                    extensive hearings the food and drug bill had yet been given, taking testimony in
                            
                  Washington, New York
               , and 
                        Chicago
                    . Wiley was scientific adviser to the committee as well as major witness, and his name
                    figured prominently in the heavy press coverage.13
            
            The chief chemist stepped up his speaking schedule. Still a bachelor, he had no home ties to
                    complicate his bookings. He was gregarious: he enjoyed mingling with people in a democratic manner
                    and knew how to put them at ease. He believed fervently in his cause: the religious enthusiasm of
                    his youth had found a noble secular outlet. His early declamatory style, practiced by the waterfall,
                    had become perfected by long experience. He spoke with conviction but informally, with wit and
                    concrete example, in easy rapport with those who listened. Wiley was tall—six feet
                    one—and weighed over two hundred pounds. His face was oval and full, his black eyes
                    piercing and slanted, his nose prominent, his black hair receding, the lush black beard and mustache
                    he brought to 
                        Washington
                     shrinking in size and disappearing altogether with the new century. Wiley's
                    persona as well as his passion helped him persuade.
            The chief chemist's pure food lecturing got reported in the press, and his "Poison
                    Squad" experiments, beginning in 1902, received even more publicity. In these scientific
                    tests Wiley sought to find out if chemical preservatives in food would harm healthy young men eating
                    all their meals at a training table. The plan of 
                  
                     13 Young, Pure Food, 140–45; Adulteration of Food Products, Senate Report 516, 56 Cong., 1 sess., 1900.
               
                     deliberately putting people at risk intrigued
                    journalists—it was a reporter who coined the term "Poison
                    Squad"—as it fascinated and frightened citizens throughout the country. Although
                    Wiley deplored distortions in reporting, he got along well with most reporters, and their coverage
                    of his words and deeds made him a figure of national importance.
            Magazine journalism at this time had entered the muckraking era. Eager writers sought to reveal evils
                    associated with the growing trusts, including the way in which politicians had become beholden to
                    industrial interests. Food and proprietary medicine manufacturers were not exempt from such
                    critical, sometimes savage, exposure. Journalists working in this field went to Wiley for
                    information and became his allies in the quest for a regulatory law.
            It was into this political atmosphere that Albert Beveridge came to 
                        Washington
                     as a senator in 1899. Fourteen years had passed since his graduation from DePauw. Bone
                    weary, Beveridge spent the first year out of college recouping his strength with an outdoor life in 
                        Kansas
                     aiding new settlers to get located on their tracts. Then he came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and entered a law office. The next year he was admitted to the bar and began practice;
                    he also married his college sweetheart. A skillful attorney, always scrupulously prepared as to the
                    law and the facts, persuasive and dramatic in his courtroom appearances, Beveridge won major cases,
                    including one in which his client had been a close college friend of Wiley.
            Besides practicing law, Beveridge continued his oratory and appeared throughout the Midwest and East
                    at lawyers' meetings, college commencements, patriotic assemblies, and political rallies.
                    Although he once gave a paper arguing that William Shakespeare's plays must have been
                    written by Sir Walter Raleigh, mainly Beveridge preached staunch conservative Republican doctrine,
                    that to be powerful nations needed big industries, big navies, and big foreign trade. Farmer and
                    labor challenges of the 1890s disturbed him and gave him concern about the future of the nation and
                    of the Anglo-Saxon race.
            Always hoping that the law might lead to politics, Beveridge saw the Spanish-American War, which he
                    held to be a "holy" cause, as a springboard into public office.14 He overcame a severe split in state Republican ranks in Indiana to secure election in
                    January, 1899, to the 
                        United States
                     Senate at the age of thirty-six. Beveridge stopped practicing law, never to resume it,
                    and became the nation's leading voice for an aggressive imperialism by which the 
                        United States
                     should annex as spoils of war the Spanish insular possessions. Wiley held similar
                    convictions.
            
               
                  14 Cited in Braeman, Albert J. Beveridge, 23.
            
            
            
               THE AMERICAN PRESS GENERALLY SUPPORTED WILEY'S EFFORTS TO ENFORCE THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT
                        OF 1906 Courtesy Lewiston (
                            Maine
                        ) Weekly Journal.
            
            
            
               ALBERT JEREMIAH BEVERIDGE Courtesy Library of Congress
            
            The new senator was of medium height, broad of shoulder, and with a slender, muscular body. He had a
                    lean, alert face, a determined set of jaw, flashing blue-grey eyes, and fair hair. His mode of dress
                    was formal, almost old-fashioned, and won him the sobriquet of Senate "fashion
                        plate."15 His stride was rapid, his carriage confident. His
                    self-centered "grand manner"16 and unabashed
                    ambition—Beveridge sought immediate placement on the important Senate committees and did
                    not hide his desire to become president—irritated his senior colleagues and rubbed many
                    newsmen the wrong way so that he became a target at the Gridiron Club. Beveridge thus possessed
                    poorer press relations than did Wiley, although both had special intimates among journalists to whom
                    they wrote their most personal plans and hopes and fears. Both saved their correspondence, and the
                    Beveridge and Wiley papers are major collections in the Manuscript Division of the Library of
                    Congress.
            Beveridge, during his early service in the Senate, was almost completely occupied with problems of
                    imperialism. These were also 
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 35.
                  
                     16 William Allen White cited in Ibid., 37.
               
                     the years in which the pure food crusade was growing in
                    intensity. In December, 1902, the House passed the food bill and the Senate Committee on
                    Manufactures reported out a substitute that seemed certain to pass if brought to a vote. Wiley
                    sought to build pressure on the Senate to get its members to agree to such a vote. He wrote letters
                    to his allies throughout the country and even to senators themselves. The chief chemist, counting on
                    the Indiana connection, was disappointed when Senator Beveridge let it be known he was too busy to
                    give the food and drug bill his active support.17 The Senate did not vote, so
                    the bill died.
            At about the same time, however, Beveridge was beginning a shift in perspective that would make him
                    more amenable to reform and willing to give much time to it. In 1902 he gave a lecture devoted, as
                    many earlier lectures had been, to a strong defense of the trusts as an asset to American life. In
                    this speech, however, the senator admitted for the first time that occasional evils arose in the
                    conduct of such gigantic business entities. In a private letter Beveridge revealed the specifics of
                    what he had referred to only generally in his lecture. "The idiotic relations of the beef
                    trust in unjustly and arbitrarily raising prices," he wrote, "is causing, and very
                    justly, indignation throughout the country. It gives demagogues an unjust opportunity to answer my
                    [pro-trust] arguments."18 Such rare transgressions, Beveridge believed,
                    could be eliminated by the supervision of the national government. Muckrakers had indeed found the
                    business practices of the beef trust a convenient target for attack. The more severe barrage was yet
                    to come, in a series of articles in Everybody's Magazine during 1905 by
                    Charles Edward Russell calling the packers’ combination "The Greatest Trust in
                    the World,"19 Theodore Roosevelt, who had ascended to the presidency
                    upon William McKinley's assassination, had begun striving to restrain packer corporate
                    abuses by taking them to court.
            Beveridge pushed his inquiries into packer affairs beyond economic practices to hygienic
                        conditions.20 Like Roosevelt, he had been upset by the "embalmed
                    beef scandal during the Spanish-American War. The senator now looked into the law of Moses by 
                  
                     17 Anderson, Health of a Nation, 145.
                  
                     18 Cited in Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive
                            Era, 178.
                  
                     19 Russell's articles were immediately published in a book,
                                The Greatest Trust in the World (
                                New York
                            , 1905).
                  
                     20 Beveridge's role in securing the strengthening of meat
                            inspection statutes to protect American consumers is discussed in both the Bowers and
                            Braeman biographies. The theme receives more detailed treatment in John Braeman,
                            "The Square Deal in Action: A Case Study in the Growth of the ‘National
                            Police Power,’ " in John Braeman, Robert H. Bremner, and Everett
                            Walters, eds., Change and Continuity in Twentieth-Century America
                                    (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1964), 35–80; Robert M. Crunden, Ministers of Reform: The Progressives’ Achievement in American
                                Civilization, 1889–1920 (
                                New York
                            , 1982), 163–99; and Young, Pure Food,
                            221–52.
               
                     which the ancient theocracy had controlled the Jewish diet, and
                    he investigated a contemporary kosher slaughterhouse. He checked on the state of American law,
                    finding that Congress had enacted statutes in 1890 and 1891 providing inspection of meat destined
                    for export but that there was scarcely any protection of meat sold to the American people. Beveridge
                    was pondering what to do when, in February, 1906, Upton Sinclair's novel The
                        Jungle was published. Aiming at people's heads by presenting the grim lot of
                    Packingtown workers so as to convert readers to socialism, Sinclair observed that he had hit their
                    stomachs instead with his few pages describing the filthy conditions under which meat was processed.
                    The book brought on a national trauma, and the sale of meat fell by half. Beveridge sent a copy of
                        The Jungle to the president and began to draft an inspection bill to remedy
                    the dire situation.
            It was not only the meat crisis that pressed on Beveridge, and Roosevelt, too, to convert them from
                    conservative Republicans to Progressives. Other issues were involved, for example, contention over
                    the admission of new states in the West. Beveridge in 1905 published an article in the Saturday Evening Post in which he asserted that, if big businessmen clung "to the
                    mediaeval doctrine that what a man shall do with his wealth is nobody's business but his
                    own," then public opinion would force Congress to decree that great fortunes be used in the
                    public interest.21 Unclean meat, of course, transcended statehood as a matter of
                    national concern.
            Beveridge sensed public service, political advantage, and personal recognition in assuming leadership
                    of the pure meat battle. He checked out his assumptions with two editor friends, one of whom, George
                    Lorimer of the Saturday Evening Post, had once been advertising manager of the
                    Armour company and had recently published the Armour rebuttal to Sinclair's fictional
                    critique. Both editors told the senator what a tough fight he faced. Beveridge next confided his
                    plans to two officials high in Roosevelt's administration, Gifford Pinchot and James A.
                    Garfield, son of the former president. They both encouraged him in his proposal to draft and
                    introduce a bill expanding the inspection in packinghouses to include meat going through interstate
                    commerce to American consumers. Beveridge then took his idea to the president.
                    "Bully!" Roosevelt exclaimed, but he urged waiting until his two investigators got
                    back from 
                        Chicago
                    .22 Beveridge did not know the president had sent two social
                    workers, one of them the commissioner of labor, to check out Sinclair's charges about the
                    packers’ shortcomings. Sinclair himself had urged this step on Roosevelt while visiting
                    at the White House. So Beveridge went on with his 
                  
                     21 Cited in Braeman, Albert J. Beveridge, 98.
                  
                     22 Cited in Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive
                            Era, 229.
               
                     drafting. Shortly, dining at the Pinchot home, the senator
                    learned from Secretary of Agriculture James Wilson that his staff also was drafting an inspection
                    bill. Beveridge got Roosevelt to give his efforts priority and to tell Wilson to turn his
                    department's draft over to the senator.
            After drawing up some twenty versions, Beveridge reached the stage of satisfaction and on May 21,
                    1906, after notifying Roosevelt, introduced his bill into the Senate. Beveridge was proud of his
                    document, both as a consumer protection measure and as an expression of national authority. In a
                    letter he stated in capital letters that his proposed law represented "THE MOST PRONOUNCED
                    EXTENSION OF FEDERAL POWER IN EVERY DIRECTION EVER ENACTED."23
            
            The bill panicked the packers and the wider business community, and there ensued a month of intense
                    maneuvering. Quickly Beveridge got his version attached to an agricultural appropriations bill and
                    passed by the Senate. The packers and their allies, now persuaded a law was bound to come, got their
                    supporters in the House agriculture committee to approve a less stringent form. This bill would cut
                    out two of Beveridge's favorite provisions: charging the packers fees to cover the cost of
                    inspection and requiring that canned meats carry on their labels the date of their inspection. The
                    president played the mixed role of threatener and compromiser, with minimal success, for the
                    packers’ friends in the House yielded little. Beveridge's fervent oratory kept
                    the Senate firm in support of his more rigorous bill until the midnight hour. Then, to get any law
                    at all, the senator capitulated.
            Despite what was omitted, the law provided basic protection to consumers, paid for by a permanent
                    appropriation from general funds of three million dollars a year. In the packinghouses Department of
                    Agriculture inspectors made antemortem and postmortem inspections of meat animals destined for
                    interstate and foreign commerce, with carcasses unfit for food destroyed in their presence.
                    Processed meats also must be inspected, not only to assure whole-someness but also to detect
                    dangerous preservatives and dyes. The law let the secretary of agriculture set rules for the
                    maintenance of sanitation in the plants. Fines and possible prison terms were heavy for convicted
                    violators of the law's provisions.
            In succeeding sessions of the Congress, Senator Beveridge sought to add to the regulatory system the
                    two key provisions of his original bill eliminated by the House, can dating and fee paying by the
                    packers, but in vain. Popular panic had been appeased, and Congress had lost interest. Thus, both
                    the tale of securing the basic law to protect the meat Americans ate and the account of 
                  
                     23 Beveridge to Albert Shaw, May 26, 1906, Beveridge Papers.
               
                    
                    
                  A SKETCH OF ALBERT BEVERIDGE FOCUSING ON His INTENSE EARNESTNESS Courtesy Library of
                            Congress.
               
                     Beveridge's involvement with the nation's
                    food are really the same short story, occurring between February and July of 1906. The effort was
                    exhausting. "I was about played out when Congress closed," the senator wrote a
                    friend, "I was not much more than a fish worm physically."24
                    But Beveridge was elated and proud over his achievement. The meat bill, he wrote, "is the
                    most important exercise of federal power ever sanctioned by Congress."25
            
            The campaign to enact a broad food and drug law, by contrast, required over a quarter century. The
                    coalition of supporters for a law kept growing, but obstacles continued. Three groups lobbied
                    against the mainline bill with particular vigor: makers of blended whiskey, food processors relying
                    on chemical preservatives, and proprietors of patent medicines. The arrival of muckraking did begin
                    to arouse greater interest in the issue among the general public. Writers pointed to individual
                    members of Congress who fought a law at the behest of some special interest in their state or
                    district. In 1905 a series of articles in Collier's by Samuel Hopkins
                    Adams exposed the hazards of proprietary remedies: inert mixtures labeled to cure dread diseases and
                    concoctions loaded with alcohol or morphine or cocaine not mentioned on the label.26 Public support for the law was thus rising before The Jungle came out in
                    February, 1906, on the day after Adams's final patent medicine article appeared.
            Almost simultaneously with these events the Senate passed the food bill, and in this moment of drama
                    Beveridge played a role. "The Senate was in a jam," he later explained,
                    "and public feeling had become intense. [Senator] Aldrich came to me one afternoon and
                        said:
                        Tell Heyburn if he asks consideration for the Pure Food bill there will be no objection.
                            (Some fight was going on between us [Progressives] and the Old Guard, and this was obviously
                            a manoevre, to save something else they thought more important; I think perhaps they counted
                            on killing the Pure Food bill in the House later….) So I went to Heyburn and told
                            him to bring up the Pure Food bill instantly and the Old Guard would not block him. Heyburn
                            could not believe it and said he was tired of being made a fool of by asking useless
                            consideration which he had asked so many times before. However, I insisted, for I never knew
                            Aldrich to promise anything that he did not make good. I told Heyburn there was no time to
                            waste, and to act without any questions. I sat down beside him and told him that I would be
                            responsible. Finally, about the middle of the afternoon, Heyburn got up…,27
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     24 Beveridge to Francis E. Baker, August 1, 1906, ibid.
                  
                  
                     25 Beveridge to Robert A. 
                                Brown
                            , July 28, 1906, ibid.
                  
                  
                     26 The American Medical Association published Adams's
                            articles as a book, The Great American Fraud (
                                Chicago
                            , 1906).
                  
                     27 Cited in Mark Sullivan, Our Times (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1926–1935), II, 533–34.
               
                     An agreement was reached to vote a week later, and after
                    several days of intense debate the Senate, with Harvey Wiley sitting in the gallery, passed the food
                    bill sixty-three to four.
            The House dallied from February to June, and at times it appeared as if the bill's foes
                    would keep it bottled up. But, as the session neared its end, clever strategy by House leaders,
                    urging by the president, lobbying by the pro-law coalition, and excitement generated by the meat
                    bill fight combined to bring a voice vote. The mainline bill passed. In contrast with the meat bill,
                    differences between Senate and House versions were smoothly reconciled in conference committee. Both
                    Beveridge and Wiley agreed that without the public worry over meat a pure food law would have been
                    again delayed.
            The Food and Drugs Act was in some respects a weaker law than that governing meat.28 Its penalties for convicted violators were smaller, and its point of control was not before
                    products entered interstate commerce but after, or at least after they were offered for interstate
                    shipment. The meat law protected the consumer by not letting defective meat get to the dinner table.
                    The food law could treat "filthy, decomposed, or putrid" foods and those
                    containing added poisons in a similar way by seizure actions. But mainly the food and drug law
                    rested on a different premise, that if purchasers were adequately informed they could protect
                    themselves against deception and danger. Even for narcotic proprietary medicines that had killed
                    babies and enslaved adults, what the law required was only honest labeling, not purging these drugs
                    from formulas.
            Wiley's Bureau of Chemistry was placed in charge of generating cases under the new law to
                    take to the courts, and he determined on tough enforcement, even reading into the law powers not
                    indisputably there.29 Many abuses were remedied, but some growers and processers
                    thought themselves attacked unfairly. President Roosevelt came to doubt Wiley's science and
                    hedged his authority with higher structures of review. The chief chemist had similar problems with
                    President William Howard Taft. Finally, in 1912, a frustrated Wiley, now with a wife and soon with a
                    baby son to support, resigned to accept a higher paying job. Abandoning his Republicanism, Wiley
                    campaigned for Woodrow Wilson and his running mate, Governor Thomas Riley Marshall of Indiana, who
                    had publicly supported Wiley in one of his disputes with Taft.30
                    
                  
                     28 The provisions of the two laws are compared in Young, Pure Food, 262–72.
                  
                     29 Anderson's Health of a Nation describes
                            Wiley's role as regulator. See also James Harvey Young, "The Science and
                            Morals of Metabolism: Catsup and Benzoate of Soda," Journal of the
                                History of Medicine and Allied Sciences, XXIII (January, 1968), 86–104.
                  
                     30 Wiley to Thomas Riley Marshall, October 7, 1909, Wiley Papers; H.
                            E. Barnard to Jas. Thompson & Bros., November 23, 1912, ibid.;
                            "Why I Support Wilson and Marshall," pencil draft, 1912, ibid.
                  
               
                     There was speculation that President Wilson might return Wiley
                    to his post as food law enforcer or even make him secretary of agriculture, but this did not happen.
                    For the rest of Wiley's life the pure food cause continued to be his foremost concern. He
                    sought to accomplish through journalism and lecturing what he had been hampered from achieving as
                    administrator.
            Beveridge served two terms as senator, then was defeated in 1910. He followed Roosevelt out of the
                    Republican party and ran unsuccessfully on the Bull Moose ticket for the Indiana governorship in
                    1912 and for the Senate in 1914. Again a Republican, he tried once more for the Senate in 1922, but
                    lost. Beveridge gained contemporary renown and continuing respect for his biographies of Abraham
                    Lincoln and Chief Justice John Marshall. Meat in 1906 had been for Beveridge an important but
                    circumscribed chapter in his varied life, not the central theme of an entire career as food was for
                    Wiley. Beveridge died in 1927 at the age of sixty-four, Wiley three years later at eighty-five.
         
         
         
            The 1920 Federal Census: A Note
            
                    Robert G. Barrows
                    *
                
            In early 1992, following the expiration of the seventy-two-year waiting period now prescribed by law,
                    the manuscript population schedules of the 1920 federal census were opened for research and made
                    available for purchase on microfilm. The Indiana portion of the census schedules comprises fifty-six
                    rolls of microfilm and costs $1,288. (By way of comparison, 
                        New York
                     state requires 201 rolls and costs $4,623; Alaska, still a territory in
                    1920, takes two rolls at a mere $46.) Most Hoosiers who need access to the entire
                    collection will probably rely on the few state repositories that plan to puchase all the Indiana
                    materials. As of midsummer, 1992, the Indiana State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and the 
                        Allen County
                     Public Library, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , had acquired the entire Indiana set. Persons concerned with a specific geographic
                    area, however, may wish to purchase the roll(s) of microfilm concerning their area of
                    interest—or to urge their local historical society, public library, or genealogical
                    society to do so.1
            
            As is the case for the 1880 and 1900 censuses (but not 1910), there is a Soundex index available for
                    the 1920 Indiana population schedules. The index is, in fact, substantially larger and more
                    expensive than the census itself: 230 rolls of microfilm costing $5,290. As those who
                    have used it can attest, however, once one becomes accustomed to the coding scheme employed by
                    Soundex the system can save considerable time, especially if one's research problem
                    involves locating specific individuals in the midst of the enormous manuscript census haystack.
                    Visiting a repository that has acquired the Soundex index can often substantially reduce the 
                  
                     * Robert G. Barrows is assistant professor of history at
                            Indiana University-Purdue University 
                                Indianapolis
                            , where he is also managing editor of the Encyclopedia of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     .
                  
                     1 The 1920 census schedules comprise National Archives Microfilm
                            Publication T625; the Indiana material is on rolls 420–475. For a list of the
                            counties included on each roll, see page 57 of The 1920 Federal Population
                                Census: Catalog of National Archives Microfilm (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1991), which is available from: National Archives Trust Fund, NEPS Dept.
                            M1920, P.O. Box 100793, 
                        Atlanta, Georgia
                      30384.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXVIII (December, 1992)." 1992, Trustees of
                            Indiana University.
               
                     number of hours spent squinting at a microfilm reader. Users of
                    the 1920 census should also be aware that—as for previous censuses—the
                    enumeration district descriptions are available on microfilm. This source, used in conjunction with
                    city directories and maps, may be especially useful for researchers working on large urban areas.2
            
            The 1920 population schedules repeated many of the questions that had been asked ten and twenty years
                    earlier. The four left-hand columns list information regarding the "place of
                    abode" whose residents were being enumerated: name of street or road on which the dwelling
                    was located; the house number (when relevant); and the order of visitation by the census taker. The
                    enumerator then recorded for each person: name, relationship to head of family, sex, race, age at
                    last birthday, marital status, school attendance (including college) during the preceding four
                    months, ability to read, write, and speak English (for those ten years of age and older), place of
                    birth, place of birth of parents, trade or profession, and type of industry or business in which
                    employed.
            Other questions applied only to specific categories of respondents. The head of
                    each family was asked whether the family's living quarters were rented or owned and, if the
                    latter, whether owned free or mortgaged. Persons with an occupation were asked whether they were an
                    employer, salaried employee or wage worker, or self-employed ("working on own
                    account"). Foreign-born persons were asked when they had immigrated to the 
                        United States
                    , their naturalization status, and, if applicable, the year of their naturalization. The
                    1920 schedule also had a separate column for the "mother tongue" of foreign-born
                    respondents. (Enumerators had been instructed to ask about immigrants' native language in
                    1910; the response, however, was written in the same column as the country of birth, an awkward and
                    sometimes ambiguous procedure that was revised in 1920.)
            Several questions asked in 1910 were deleted a decade later. No longer were employees asked whether
                    they had been out of work on the census day (January 1 in 1920) or how many weeks they had been out
                    of work the previous year. Regrettably for demographic historians the 1910 question regarding
                    duration of marriage was dropped, and women were no longer queried about how many children they had
                    borne and how many of those children 
                  
                     2 The Soundex index for Indiana is National Archives Microfilm
                            Publication M1560; contents of each of the 230 rolls is detailed in The 1920
                                Federal Population Census, 22–23. The enumeration district descriptions
                            for Indiana in 1920 are on roll 45 of National Archives Microfilm Publication T1224.
                            Enumeration district maps are also available for many Indiana counties, cities, and towns;
                            see ibid., 6–7, for details.
               
                     were still living. Also deleted were inquiries about whether
                    the person being enumerated was blind or deaf and dumb. Finally, a question previously asked
                    regarding service in the Union or Confederate army or navy was dropped, partially because the number
                    of potential respondents was dwindling by 1920 and partially because responses had been so
                    inconsistent ten years earlier.3
            
            The Indiana Magazine of History has previously published several articles detailing
                    ways in which the manuscript census might be used by students of family and community history.4 Most of those suggestions apply to the 1920 census as well. One may, of
                    course, employ the census simply to seek out biographical information concerning particular Hoosier
                    residents—from the famous to the average to the infamous. For example, with the
                    assistance of the Soundex index someone studying the state's early twentieth century
                    literary history can quickly locate a residence at 1100 North Pennsylvania Street in 
                        Indianapolis
                     where the head of household was one Newton B. Tarkington—better known by his
                    middle name, Booth. Tarkington, who had already won a Pulitzer Prize by 1920 and would soon win
                    another, is listed in the census simply as a "writer" who worked "at
                    home." His household included, in addition to his wife Susanah and sister-in-law Mary
                    Kelfer, three servants—a butler, maid, and cook. There were no servants, however, in the
                    modest house at 2053 Cooper where fifty-three-year-old John Dillinger (occupation:
                    "retired") lived with his wife Elizabeth and three children. John, Jr., age
                    sixteen, who became notorious for his criminal exploits in the early 1930s, was a helper in a mill
                    in January, 1920. The enumerator recorded that the youth had not attended school during the previous
                    fall term.5
            
            
               
                        
                     3 For a more detailed discussion of the 1920 enumeration, see Kellee
                            Green, "The Fourteenth Numbering of the People: The 1920 Federal Census,"
                                Prologue, XXIII (Summer, 1991), 131–45.
                        Individuals working with the population census should be aware of the detailed instructions
                            given the enumerators, since this can affect the interpretation of data on the schedules.
                            For example, the directions for the school attendance question are as follows:
                            "Write ‘Yes’ for any person who attended
                            school, college, or any educational institution at any time since September 1, 1919, and
                            Wo' for any person of school age—5 to 21 years—who has not
                            attended school since that date. For persons below or above school age, leave the column
                            blank, unless they actually attended school." Thus, in theory at least, a blank in
                            this column means something, rather than just being an absence of
                            information. The instructions to enumerators are available most conveniently in U.S. Bureau
                            of the Census, 200 Years of U.S. Census Taking: Population and Housing
                                Questions, 1790–1990 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1989).
                    
               
                  4 Robert G. Barrows, "The Manuscript Federal Census: Source for a
                        ‘New’ Local History," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, LXIX (September, 1973), 181–92; Barrows, "The 1900 Federal
                        Census: A Note on Availability and Potential Uses," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXIV (June, 1978), 146–52; Barrows, "The 1910 Federal
                        Census: A Note," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII (December,
                        1982), 341–45.
               
                  5 The Tarkington and Dillinger households are both located in the
                        microfilm rolls for 
                            Marion
                         County (the Dillingers moved to rural 
                            Mooresville
                         later in 1920); the former is in enumeration district 142, sheet 3, line 30, the
                        latter in enumeration district 35, sheet 23, line 85. On Dillinger see also David L. Haase,
                        "Secrecy lid lifted from 1920 census," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, March 5, 1992.
            
            
            As the articles cited in note 4 suggest, however, uses of the manuscript census go well beyond
                    locating specific individuals such as Tarkington, Dillinger, or one's forebears. And,
                    although similar to previous enumerations, the 1920 canvass does present some new research
                    possibilities. As the first census to collect information regarding the naturalization of
                    foreign-born persons of both sexes and all ages, and the first to ask naturalized citizens the year
                    of their naturalization, it affords students of immigration some new subjects to explore. Likewise,
                    the questions regarding specific place of birth asked of those who immigrated from (or whose parents
                    immigrated from) one of the countries whose boundaries were altered in the aftermath of World War I
                    will be especially important for those studying areas where such persons settled. For example, it
                    may be possible to highlight patterns of "chain migration" from a specific
                    European community to a specific Indiana locale.
            Thus, the 1920 federal manuscript census joins its predecessors as one of the richest sources for
                    community historians willing and able to invest the time and effort required to uncover patterns
                    hidden within the raw data. As historian Sam Bass Warner observed in his now-classic Streetcar Suburbs, "census enumerations remain a vital source of information. If
                    local historians are to write modern histories which can establish meaningful traditions for their
                    communities they will have to rely upon statistical material to give them some of the general
                    outlines of the common life of the past."6
            
            
               
                  6 Sam Bass Warner, Jr., Streetcar Suburbs: The Process of
                            Growth in 
                                Boston
                            , 1870–1900 (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1962), 174. The quotation is from Appendix A, "A Local
                        Historian's Guide to Social Statistics."
            
            
            
            
            
               
                        Section 1
                    
               
                        Section 2
                    
               
                        Section 3
                    
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            Always a River: The 
                        Ohio
                     River and the American Experience. Edited by Robert L. Reid. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1991. Pp. xvi, 250. Notes, illustrations, figures.
                    Cloth-bound, $35.00; paperbound, $12.95.)
            Recently I stopped in Cairo, 
                        Illinois
                    , to picnic at the confluence of the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     rivers. Seeing these two mighty waterways merge was a powerful moment. That special
                    point on the map—the mouth of the 
                        Ohio
                     River—is part of a long and distinguished heritage that reaches from Cairo
                    to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     that is the subject of the seven essays collected for Always a River: The 
                        Ohio
                     River and the American Experience. This compendium grew out of a major project of the
                    same name that included public programs, televised news stories, and a floating museum exhibit on a
                    barge.
            Scott Russell Sanders's essay winds and rambles like the river itself through a series of
                    thoughts on history, pollution, commerce, recreation, and Native Americans. Yet his style is also
                    part of the appeal, in that it is the only essay which places people at the center. John
                    Jakle's work compares two travelers on the river, English fortune seeker Nicholas Cresswell
                    and historian Reuben Gold Thwaites. One writing in the 1770s and the other in the 1890s saw the
                    river in the process of fundamental change—Cresswell on the verge of peopling, Thwaites
                    in the midst of industrialization.
            Hubert Wilhelm and Michael Allen deal with the impact of outside forces on the river. Wilhelm tracks
                    settlement patterns based on early town arrangements, barn styles, and log cabins. Allen's
                    work on the river as an "artery of movement" links boats and people, fact and
                    mythology. The remaining three essays are impersonal and abstract in their tone and subject. Boyd
                    Keenan discusses the ecopolitical system, Leland Johnson describes the efforts of the Army Corps of
                    Engineers to change the river for public service uses, and Barrel Bigham writes on economics and
                    commerce. These three works lack a sense that actual people were involved in the processes.
            It is easy to imagine different essays or approaches. Reid's introduction suggests a
                    stronger social history approach, for example. The imagery of the 
                        Ohio
                     River is only superficially examined, and the place of the 
                        Ohio
                     River as a symbol of freedom for slaves is an important topic barely mentioned.
                    Nonetheless, this collection of essays attempts to grapple with a difficult and complex subject 
                    
                  A PRINT OF KARL BOOMER'S "CAVE-IN-ROCK, ON THE OHIO" (1832)
                            Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                and suggests some new ways of thinking about the relationships between waterways and their
                    surroundings over time.
            JEFFREY SMITH is executive director of the 
                        St. Louis
                     Mercantile Library, which operates the Herman T. Pott National Inland Waterways
                    Library. He is completing a book linking industrial league baseball, welfare work, and
                    progressivism.
         
         
            
               Letters from New 
                            France
                        : The Upper Country, 1686—1783. Translated and edited by Joseph L.
                    Peyser. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1992. Pp. xv, 248. Maps, tables, figures, notes, illustrations, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. $34.95.)
            Joseph L. Peyser has collected and translated French manuscripts, mostly official, dealing with
                    affairs in the pays d'en haut, the region surrounding the Great Lakes and
                    upper 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley. His twelve-year project began as a historical celebration of Fort 
                        St. Joseph
                     (Niles, Mich.) but expanded into "a sequential picture of the struggles,
                    growth and ultimate defeat of the French empire in North America" (p. xi). The
                    book's contents have been selected from about two thousand manuscript pages relating to  Fort 
                        St. Joseph
                    , supplemented by other prime sources. It was a "fascinating" job for
                    Peyser, and it is very interesting for readers who usually approach the period through English
                    sources.
            Peyser's editing is thorough and conscientious. He does not gush about the romance of it
                    all, nor does he slant materials in the too familiar manner of racial partisanship. His objectivity
                    is especially plain in the documents regarding the Fox Wars that comprise about a fifth of the
                    total. After carefully showing that Governor General Beaharnois "was attempting to secure
                    New 
                        France
                    , assure its economy, and maintain his own position," Peyser concludes that
                    "Beaharnois's treatment of the Foxes is a dark chapter in the history of French
                    and Indian relations in colonial North America" (pp. 132, 133). Peyser's French
                    did not "embrace" the Indians.
            For a reader there is a lesson on strategy in the different fates of the Foxes and the farther south
                    Chickasaws. French troops and allied Indians stood between the Foxes and their Iroquois allies,
                    blocking access to firearms and reinforcements, so that the Foxes suffered almost total massacre.
                    For the Chickasaws, however, English South Carolinians provided arms and other help. When the French
                    launched a campaign to repeat their Fox triumph, "Bien-ville's forces were cut to
                    pieces by their enemy's crossfire, planned and directed by the English" (p. 160).
            Except for such indirect references to English colonials, they remain unnoticed until George 
                        Washington
                     appears. It should be repeated that the book's contents are not only French,
                    but almost entirely official French. If there is a serious fault, it lies in the lack of attention
                    to coureurs de bois and those other Frenchmen who did "embrace"
                    the Indians, the missionaries, and metis.
            Appendixes contain useful and otherwise hard-to-find data: chronologically listed officials and
                    Jesuit missionaries; terms for money; and equivalents for weights and measures current at the time.
            FRANCIS JENNINGS, senior research fellow at the Newberry Library, 
                        Chicago
                    , is the author of The Founders of America (1992).
         
         
            
               "Yours for the Revolution": The Appeal to Reason, 1895–1922. Edited by John Graham. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1990. Pp. xii, 332. Illustrations, notes, index. $45.00.)
            Given Indiana's generally conservative reputation, it is ironic that the Hoosier state has
                    played a significant role in the history of American socialism. Eugene V. Debs and Robert Dale Owen
                    are well known, but the more obscure Julius Augustus Wayland of 
                        Versailles
                    , Indiana, founder of the Appeal to Reason, the premier socialist
                    newspaper in the 
                        United States
                    , is arguably just as influential.  Upon converting
                    to socialism, Wayland launched the Coming Nation in 1893. Published in 
                        Greensburg
                    , Indiana, and boasting over 60,000 readers, the Coming Nation
                    constituted "the most widely circulated socialist newspaper in America" (p. 3).
                    Eventually, Wayland left Indiana for 
                        Kansas
                     City, created the more renowned Appeal to Reason in 1895, then
                    reestablished the paper in Girard, 
                        Kansas
                    , where it weathered a number of internal and external challenges, including
                    Wayland's suicide in 1912. The paper finally ceased publication in 1922, the result of
                    government repression and factionalism within the socialist movement.
            John Graham, editor of "Yours for the Revolution," admirably
                    captures the history and spirit of the Appeal, one of the most lively and savagely
                    irreverant, yet earnest and profound, newspapers in the history of the 
                        United States
                    . This collection of essays, editorials, and cartoons not only documents the history of
                    the Appeal but also chronicles the fortunes of the Socialist party, Wayland, and
                    many who were intimately connected with the paper.
            Imposing order on diverse material gleaned from a newspaper that ran for almost thirty years is a
                    daunting task, but Graham's editorial skills are considerable. In an engaging introductory
                    essay, he details the history of the Appeal and its symbiotic relationship with
                    the Socialist party. Then, by wisely classifying the material thematically into seven units, he is
                    better able to illuminate ideas, personalities, and events that might otherwise be obscured in a
                    strictly chronological arrangement or in a traditional narrative history of the paper. These
                    thematic units include various aspects of socialist political philosophy, economic and social
                    justice issues, the nature of radical poetry and fiction—Upton Sinclair's The Jungle was first serialized in the Appeal—and the
                    divisive effects of World War I on the socialist movement. When focusing on these themes, Graham
                    skillfully juxtaposes the writings of the famous—Eugene Debs, Jack 
                        London
                    , Helen Keller, and Sinclair—with a multitude of unknown but equally devout
                    socialists, many of whom wrote poignantly about the conditions of the working class and the promise
                    of the Socialist party. Graham also deserves praise for including a number of graphic artists in his
                    collection, especially the acerbic and witty Ryan Walker whose single-panel art work and his
                    exceptionally funny "Henry Dubb" cartoon strip are well represented.
            Clearly, Graham is a first-rate editor and superb writer. One may quibble with his notion that an
                    anti-capitalist working class has been "ignored" in our "standard history
                    texts" (p. x) and in our "selectively written national history" (p. 1),
                    especially in light of recent historiographical trends where inarticulate, anonymous Americans have
                    been the subjects of significant studies. Despite his claims, Graham has provided an enormous
                    service by bringing  the Appeal to Reason and
                    its Hoosier founder to the attention of what one hopes will be a wider audience.
            STEPHEN L. Cox is the senior historian at Conner 
                  Prairie, Noblesville
               , Indiana. At
                    one time he served as editorial assistant on the Eugene Debs Papers at Indiana State University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
         
         
            
               Indiana Railroad: The Magic Interurban. By George K. Bradley. (
                        Chicago
                    : Central Electric Railfans Association, 1991. Pp. 224. Illustrations, maps, appendixes,
                    bibliography. $55.00.)
            The electric interurban, once the backbone nationally of short distance travel, shouted its last
                    hurrah in Indiana. As systems rapidly disappeared elsewhere, most surviving Hoosier lines gathered
                    under the umbrella of the newly created Indiana Railroad, which breathed a few more years of life
                    into a dying industry.
            George K. Bradley, an experienced interurban writer, describes not only how Indiana Railroad operated
                    but why it appeared. Its roots revert to a utility empire that controlled scattered electric rail
                    and power properties through a holding company, ultimately named Midland United, headed by Samuel
                    Insull of 
                        Chicago
                    . Efforts to merge Insull properties had been unsuccessful until 1930 when
                    Indiana's two largest interurban systems, Union Traction and later 
                  Terre Haute, Indianapolis
                and Eastern, were purchased at receiver's sales and
                    slipped into an available corporate shell. Management of three existing properties was added. At 800
                    miles, the system became the country's largest.
            Misreading the developing impact of the private automobile, Indiana Railroad immediately pruned weak
                    lines and boldly ordered thirty-five high speed, one man cars, hoping to cut costs and improve
                    ridership. But it was not enough, and in 1933 Indiana Railroad slipped into receivership. The
                    receiver was a surprise, politically motivated appointment—Bowman V. Elder, a
                    non-railroad man. Bradley considers this fortunate because Elder fought tenaciously to keep the
                    system operating, something that a railroad-oriented receiver might not have done.
            Within four years the system had become marginally profitable, but a 1937 strike called to enforce
                    excessive wage demands was, according to Elder, "the final straw that broke the
                    camel's back" (p. 124). The court ordered dissolution but relented under pressure
                    of a belated employee petition. From this weakened position, the course was all downhill. More lines
                    were abandoned each year as management, sometimes substituting buses, fought a stubborn rear guard
                    action. The last lines were abandoned in January, 1941, although one survived eight months longer
                    under a sister company.
            Bradley's book also describes twelve Indiana Railroad city operations and three freight
                    lines that outlived the system. A complicated 
                    
                  INTERURBAN RUNNING ON MARKET STREET IN INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA Courtesy Indiana Historical
                            Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     color map shows the system and details dates of abandonment,
                    yet, additional maps, particularly of city systems, a corporate structure chart, and an index would
                    have been helpful. Nevertheless, the book is a valuable addition to the literature of an important
                    transportation era.
            RICHARD S. SIMONS, 
                        Marion
                    , Indiana, is vice-president of the National Railway Historical Society and president of
                    the Board of Trustees, Indiana Historical Society.
         
         
            
               English, Indiana: Memories of Main Street. By E. C. Roberts, as told to Nick
                    Roberts. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1991. Pp. ix, 144. Illustrations, maps. $17.95.)
            Under closer examination the good old days oftentimes turn out to be a bit tarnished, burnished only
                    by convenient memory. That is not the case, however, with English, Indiana, as remembered by E. C.
                    Roberts. Of course, his timing was right, and the town's history is perfect for
                    reminiscence, as ideal as his timing.
            Roberts was born in English in 1908. He was present when the first automobile arrived in a town
                    resistant to knee-jerk change. He grew up in an era when going seven miles to Fargo was an all-day
                    undertaking. Roberts lived through outdoor plumbing, small town morals, prohibition, the arrival of
                    paved roads, the rise and demise of spas, the days of clubhouses for boys, and a time when Saturday
                    night surpassed all others in excitement.
            As for the town, English stayed small enough to sidestep the explosion of industrialization. It was
                    part of a region synonymous with a quieter lifestyle. And the focus of the citizens, their ethics,
                    would translate to many Indiana towns of similar size and potential during the same era.
            Then history and weather conspired. After the disasterous flood of 1990, the last of several, English
                    residents determined to move to higher ground. The old town was to be abandoned. It appears almost
                    providential that Roberts and his son, Nick, a writer and photographer, should be able to
                    collaborate on what English was. The father knew the town's history from some of the
                    founders and lived the rest. The son had the skills to bring his father's reminiscences to
                    print. It was an unusual instance of a town dissolving while a historian was present to paint its
                    past at the moment of fading.
            For all those reasons, English will be especially welcomed on the shelves of those
                    readers from or in similar Indiana towns. Do not expect fireworks. The smalltown mainstreets of
                    yesterday had pot-bellied stove atmospheres. Look for the joy in learning the origin of the
                    nicknames; many small-town residents have them. There are tales of horses and buggies, fixing flats,
                    waiting for the election news, doing your bathing at the swimming hole, maturing and earning a
                    living, and marrying as a natural progression.
            
            
               MAIN STREET FLOODED Courtesy James E. Hankins.
            
            
            One might wish that Roberts had lived a more adventurous life. But he tells it like it was. And if
                    you take this book in a single seating (it is only about a two-and-one-half-hour read), the sense of
                    relaxed satisfaction fills the bill.
            FRED D. CAVINDER writes for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star and is the author, most recently, of Amazing Tales From
                    Indiana (1990).
         
         
            
               Early American Methodism. By Russell E. Richey. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1991. Pp. xix, 137. Appendix, notes, index.
                    $25.00.)
            In an era when American denominations are so beleaguered that many wonder about their long-term
                    viability and significance, it is rare to find fresh perspective. Conventional wisdom about their
                    financial crises, the widening gap between pew sitters and denominational bureaucrats, and the loss
                    of denominational identity abounds. There is much talk about the restructuring of Ameri-can
                    religion, about new non-denominational religious entrepreneurship, and about the problem of
                    institutional decline. Taken together the prevailing wisdom and rhetoric indicate a pervasive
                    confusion about what a denomination is and ought to be.
            In a compact, dense, and insightful series of essays, Russell E. Richey of the Duke Divinity School
                    proposes a new way to look at denominations. Part of the current denominational malaise is the poor
                    type of institutional history written about them, which has yielded far too many monotonous accounts
                    of who held what office when and which denominational statement followed this or that crisis.
                    Richey's antidote, a powerful piece of revisionism, is to look at a denomination not first
                    and foremost as an institution but as a living religious discourse. By auditing the discourse of the
                    prototypical American denomination, Methodism, Richey proposes to uncover its hidden original
                    character. Early American Methodism (1770–1810) spoke four languages, not one, he
                    concludes. Pondering whether Methodists’ early experience was "Babel or
                    Pentecost," Richey identifies: 1) a popular language of piety spoken by all who shared in
                    the great evangelical revival of post-Revolutionary America; 2) a distinct trans-Atlantic Wesleyan
                    language; 3) the episcopal language of the Church of 
                        England
                    ; and 4) the republican language of Whiggery, the civic rhetoric of British political
                    dissent and the young 
                        United States
                    . These four languages tumbled together in the early discourse of Methodism, co-existing
                    in circuit riders’ journals and conference minutes. The mere fact of their co-existence
                    suggests that Methodism was something far more complex than the institutional histories, which
                    listened primarily to the third language, portray.
            This "vernacular" reading traces the fall of early Edenic Methodism, with its rich
                    fraternal community of faith, to a situation  where
                    "they settled into a world where the episcopal language and the American vernacular
                    prevailed" (p. xvii). Within its first forty years this denomination had lost its full
                    timbred voice, or to put it in Richey's terms, Methodism had missed its opportunity to
                    clarify "the powerful, coherent but unarticulated ecclesiology" which it
                    in-choately bore (p. 79).
            Richey's concentration on vernacular Methodism leads him to explore the place where the
                    fledgling denomination was most distinctly and most fully itself, the quarterly conference. Few
                    contemporary readers will find it easy to imagine that a denominational meeting could be as
                    inspiring, community building, even faith forming as Richey suggests these meetings were. To be
                    sure, the early Methodists conducted denominational business when they came together. But the
                    meetings were much more: "however strange it may seem, this four-times-a-year phenomenon
                    might indeed be construed as the church of Methodism" (p. 70). Richey's
                    description of the early conferences resonates with anthropologist Victor Turner's
                    descriptions of communitas, that extraordinary flow or wholeness which came when
                    one crossed the threshold into a powerful religious reality. Conference, at least in its early days,
                    was where a "Methodist construction of reality" (p. 79) presented itself fully and
                    was internalized. When the episcopal language began to dominate the workings of the conference and
                    when the camp meeting, once a part of the larger conference event, spun off on its own, Methodism
                    became, in this reading, something tragically less than it could have been.
            Some of Richey's discoveries about Methodist origins will be of interest primarily to
                    specialized students of Methodistdom. Other findings, for example his description of how the
                    denomination lost its southern accent, or how black Methodists carried the authentic Methodist
                    vernacular in their spirituals after the rest of the denomination lost its voice, will be of much
                    wider interest. Most important of all is the model Richey provides of a new way to think about
                    denominations—in past and present times. His challenge to other students of American
                    religion is to move past institutional cliches about denominations and to unearth their vernaculars,
                    to focus on the complex, multilingual cultural negotiations which gave birth to the American
                    denominations and which still go on underneath, behind, and around the thin official rhetorics still
                    too easily equated with American religion.
            JAMES P. WIND is author of Places of Worship: Exploring Their History (1990)
                    and has recently completed work as co-director of the Congregational History Project, which was
                    based at the Institute for the Advanced Study of Religion at the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . He is program director, Religion Division, Lilly Endowment, Inc., 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
         
            
               Logistics of Liberty: American Services of Supply in the Revolutionary War and
                    After. By James A. Huston. (
                        Newark
                    , N.J.: University of 
                        Delaware
                     Press, with the Associated University Presses of 
                        London
                     and 
                        Toronto
                    , 1991. Pp. 373. Maps, illustrations, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $49.50.)
            In the writing of military history, the "who" and the "why" of
                    warfare normally overshadow the "how." In this book, by contrast, James A. Huston
                    brings to center stage that "how" of hostilities known as logistics.
            Huston quotes from an army manual: "Logistics is that branch of administration which
                    embraces the management and provision of supply, evacuation and hospitalization, transportation, and
                    service. It envisages getting the right people and the appropriate supplies to the right place at
                    the right time and in the proper condition" (p. 9). Huston begins with a background
                    description of the American colonial experience with logistics. Advancing to the Revolutionary War,
                    he describes the development of an army organization to address logistical requirements. The paucity
                    of domestic manufactured goods forced the Americans to obtain supplies from overseas. French aid
                    throughout the war was indispensable. Nevertheless, there were major difficulties in acquiring small
                    arms, artillery, gunpowder, and clothing. Food could be obtained locally but was often in short
                    supply. The great hindrances in transporting supplies and troops in eighteenth century America were
                    immense impediments to operations. This also was an era of primitive medical methods and conditions.
                    All of these problems, Huston explains, were compounded by an incredible financial morass.
            A large portion of the book details the specific American logistical obstacles presented by Benedict
                    Arnold's Canadian expedition, the Saratoga campaign, George 
                        Washington
                    's operations with the main army in the central states, George Rogers
                    Clark's activities in the Old Northwest, John Sullivan's moves against the
                    Iro-quois, and southern efforts concluding at Yorktown.
            The chapter devoted to George Rogers Clark provides a good summary of his operations in 1778 and
                    1779. Huston gives special attention to the movement of Clark's troops that culminated in
                    the defeat of Lieutenant Governor Henry 
                        Hamilton
                     at 
                        Vincennes
                    . This incredible midwinter trek across the 
                        Illinois
                     country is the best known aspect of Clark's campaign so the author is plowing
                    familiar ground. More emphasis instead could have been placed on an in-depth exploration of
                    Clark's efforts to procure food and supplies from Spanish-held 
                        New Orleans
                     via the 
                        Mississippi
                     River and from the French settlements in the 
                        Illinois
                     country. Although merchants Oliver Pollock and Francis Vigo are properly credited for
                    their important assistance to Clark, absent from the notes and bibliography  are the two most important works on this subject: Oliver
                        Pollock: The Life and Times of an Unknown Patriot (1937), by James Alton James, and
                    "George Rogers Clark's Service of Supply," 
                  
                            Mississippi
                         Valley Historical Review (1921), by James G. Randall.
            Overall, Huston's book is an interesting one. The important and critical role of logistics
                    is given its proper due.
            ROBERT J. HOLDEN is the historian at George Rogers Clark National Historial Park in 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana. He serves as the coordinator and editor for the annual George Rogers Clark
                    Trans-Appalachian Frontier History Conference, now in its tenth year.
         
         
            
               Gentry and Common Folk: Political Culture on a 
                            Virginia
                         Frontier, 1740–1789. By Albert H. Tillson, Jr. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1991. Pp. 228. Map, tables, figures, notes, index. $30.00.)
            
               Gentry and Common Folk joins a growing list of recent local studies of the
                    backcountry of British North America in the second half of the eighteenth century. Albert H.
                    Tillson, Jr.'s contribution is a portrait of the upper Valley of 
                        Virginia
                    —essentially the southwestern corner of the present-day state—as a
                    truncated version of what he calls the deferential world of Tidewater 
                        Virginia
                    .
            In the upper Valley, wealthy local notables aped the manners of the eastern gentry, governed through
                    the same institutions (courts and vestries), and took advantage of kinship and patronage ties to
                    strengthen both their status and their authority. But they did not command the respect that Tillson
                    believes eastern gentlemen did; problems peculiar to the frontier, such as Indian hostilities and
                    the newness of the social structure, forced would-be great men to compromise with their less
                    affluent neighbors. The rejection of gentry leadership was most noticeable in the militia, perhaps
                    the most important political unit on the frontier. Ultimately, the American Revolution ratified
                    localistic and democratic tendencies by encouraging the development of direct, issue-oriented
                    political campaigns.
            Tillson does a good job of describing a backcountry area that is both recognizably 
                        Virginia
                     and yet somewhat different. He might have done more with ethnicity and religion. The
                    fact that large numbers of Scotch-Irish and other peoples migrated south from Pennsylvania rather
                    than east from 
                        Virginia
                     raises the question of whether a comparison with the Tidewater is the most appropriate
                    one. Similarly, the predominance of Presbyterians suggests a cultural division of some importance
                    from the Anglicans, Methodists, and Baptists to the east.
            
               Gentry and Common Folk is valuable mainly for the richness of Tillson's
                    research. His conclusions are conventional, adding detail 
                    rather than nuance to an understanding of backcountry political culture, and his prose and
                    organizational structure are little more than adequate. Still, competent local studies like this one
                    remain vital to the ongoing process of making sense of life in the borderlands of Great
                    Britain's North American colonies during an age of revolution. In particular, scholars
                    interested in the origins of the states of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley will find this book useful in understanding cultural assumptions about the
                    nature of power and authority many settlers brought with them.
            ANDREW CAYTON, associate professor of history at Miami University in 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               ,
                    is the author of The Frontier Republic: Ideology and Politics in the 
                            Ohio
                         Country, 1780–1825 (1986) and, with Peter S. Onuf, The
                        Midwest and the Nation: Rethinking the History of an American Region (1990).
         
         
            
               Army of Manifest Destiny: The American Soldier in the Mexican War,
                        1846–1848. By James M. McCaffrey. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        New York
                     University Press, 1992. Pp. xvi, 275. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $45.00.)
            James M. McCaffrey tells the story of America's regular and volunteer ground forces, from
                    the perspective of the enlisted man, in the war with Mexico. The first chapter provides a brief
                    treatment of the war's causes and coverage of the battles of Palo Alto and Resaca de la
                    Palma. The next six chapters are devoted to soldier life: recruitment, the rendezvous, shoulder
                    arms, experiences en route to Mexico, medical conditions, the soldiers’ racist attitudes
                    and reactions to the Mexican people and Mexican institutions, attitudes toward officers, rations and
                    other sources of food, sexual mores, disciplinary lapses, military justice, and related topics.
                    Chapters eight through ten treat the war's major campaigns. The last chapter covers
                    occupation duty in Mexico City and the volunteers’ homecomings.
            Readers familiar with such recently published works as Robert W. Johannsen's To
                        The Halls Of The Montezumas (1985), Robert Ryal Miller's Shamrock and
                        Sword (1989), and Allan Peskin, ed., Volunteers (1991) will find that
                    most of McCaffrey's conclusions echo discoveries and interpretations in previously
                    published works. McCaffrey is by no means the first historian to note, for example, how the
                    volunteers’ enthusiasm waned once they had seen "the Elephant" or that
                    they considered "fragging" unpopular officers. An exception concerns desertion.
                    McCaffrey observes that desertion was rare compared to the American Revolution and Civil War and
                    comes up with a figure of less than 7 percent of total strength; Miller, on the other hand, found a
                    desertion rate of over 8 percent and stressed that it was the nation's highest rate for a
                    foreign war. However, Army of Manifest Destiny shines as synthesis, makes an
                    effort to place military behavior within the context of psychological  theory, and demonstrates meticulous concern with details. Some of these
                    details, such as how soldiers collected buffalo chips for fuel (they skewered them on their
                    ramrods), concern the unimportant. But much of the detail brings the soldiering experience home with
                    unusual clarity. For instance, McCaffrey provides an extended explanation of the difficulties of unloading muzzle-loading weapons—a helpful piece of information since
                    there were 361 accidental fatalities of American troops as compared to 1,429 American soldiers
                    killed or mortally wounded in battle.
            McCaffrey stresses commonalities linking Mexican War soldiers to their counterparts in other American
                    wars, but he also isolates several aspects of soldiering which set the conflict with Mexico apart.
                    Memories of brutal Mexican efforts to repress the 
                        Texas
                     Revolution and punish consequent incursions by the Republic of 
                        Texas
                     into Mexican territory meant that revenge provided a motivation for wartime recruitment
                    and a rationale for atrocities committed against Mexican soldiers and civilians. The war's
                    unusual brevity allowed the nation to avoid conscription. The fleetness with which the American
                    forces accomplished their mission contributed to high morale in the ranks for much of the conflict
                    and helped ensure that American soldiers would never gain the kind of grudging respect for their
                    Mexican antagonists that northern and southern troops acquired regarding each other during the Civil
                    War.
            
               Army of Manifest Destiny benefits from prodigious research in unpublished and
                    published primary sources: its bibliography identifies hundreds of manuscript collections at
                    thirty-six repositories and includes an eight-page list of published diaries, letters,
                    reminiscences, and other documents. Readers of this journal will delight in meeting an ample
                    sampling of Hoosier volunteers in the narrative. Attention, naturally, is devoted to the Second and
                    Third Indiana regiments at the battle of Buena Vista. But Hoosiers also appear on a more
                    individualized level—such as the intoxicated volunteer who kept jumping off a 
                        Mississippi
                     river vessel while on the way to war. However, McCaffrey slights or ignores several
                    aspects of Mexican War soldiering, including the Alvarado campaign, the experiences of Americans
                    captured in battle, the role of soldier-artists, the importance of daguerreotypes to soldiers and
                    their families, soldiers’ reactions to political news from the home front, and the
                    enlistment of volunteers in a filibuster to Yucatan at the war's close. McCaffrey provides
                    a fine overview of his topic and plugs a gap in the literature about American soldiering, but he
                    also leaves room for a more comprehensive study of Manifest Destiny's warriors.
            ROBERT E. MAY is professor of history, Purdue University, West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. He is the author of John A. Quitman: Old South Crusader
                    (1985).
         
         
         
            
               Bloody Dawn: The Story of the Lawrence Massacre. By Thomas Goodrich.
                            (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1991. Pp. 207. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $26.00.)
            "Bloody Dawn" for the three thousand residents of Lawrence, 
                        Kansas
                    , came on August 21, 1863, when 400 Confederate partisans led by William Quantrill
                    swooped into the sleeping town and embarked on an orgy of murder and arson. Within hours more than
                    150 lay dead, and most of the survivors were left homeless. The terror and hatred unleashed a decade
                    earlier in "Bleeding 
                        Kansas
                    " reached a frightful climax that summer day.
            Thomas Goodrich, a native of Lawrence, convincingly captures the visceral horror that erupted in the
                    West during the Civil War era. The fight between "jayhawkers" and
                    "bushwackers" was truly "a very personal war, a war among
                    neighbors,…a vendetta" (p. 4). The people of Lawrence clearly understood this,
                    of course; but after numerous false alarms of impending attack and the Union military victories in
                    July, they dropped their guard. Quantrill's raiders achieved complete surprise, and the
                    result was a massacre. Cowering, unarmed townsmen pleaded for mercy as their wives and children
                    looked on, only to be shot down in cold blood. In one grisly episode, two merchants were lashed
                    together and tossed into their burning store; when the flames finally extinguished their shrieks,
                    the drunken guerrillas burst into "a new round of applause and laughter" (p. 115).
            Goodrich is a fine storyteller, but this work is flawed. The well-written narrative is jarringly
                    disrupted by frequent leaps in chronology, and the author's perspective is likewise
                    disjointed. Goodrich portrays slaveholders—particularly Missourians—more as
                    victims than aggressors. Beleaguered southerners viewed the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act as "simply a question of survival" (p. 2). Fanatical northerners,
                    typified by John 
                        Brown
                    , willing to tear down the Union to keep 
                        Kansas
                     free, ultimately pushed the South into a sectional showdown. The author seemingly
                    cannot comprehend why northerners were reluctant to accept 
                        Nebraska
                     as a free state and concede 
                        Kansas
                     to slaveholders. He ignores the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise (which supposedly settled the controversy in 1820), the election frauds
                    perpetrated in 
                        Kansas
                     Territory by proslavery Missourians, and the decidedly unrepresentative Lecompton
                    Constitution. The historical background to the events leading to the Lawrence raid is so simplistic
                    it is misleading.
            The author's treatment of the Civil War years is similarly skewed. It is unlikely, for
                    example, 
                        Kansas
                     was any more "liberally laced with thieves, rogues, and scoundrels"
                    than its eastern neighbor (p. 210). Granted, some jayhawkers were "evil-looking,
                    evil-acting men" interested solely in plundering 
                        Missouri
                     farmers;  yet, again, the blame was not so
                    one-sided. The most obnoxious major character in the entire volume is a former Hoosier, James Lane,
                    who was indeed a grasping politician; but it is too much to make William Quantrill a semi-heroic
                    figure in comparison. The "romantic, blue-eyed cavalier," according to Goodrich,
                    imparted "a degree of humanity, even gallantry" to the bitter conflict (pp. 74,
                    76). Quantrill's bold assault of Lawrence earned him "the eternal respect and
                    admiration of thousands who…felt that though it had come ever so slowly, justice had
                    after all come ever so surely" (p. 149). Kansans were amply repaid for their earlier
                    transgressions.
            Readers interested in a well-told account of the Lawrence massacre will appreciate this book.
                    Scholars seeking a broader understanding of the partisan warfare along the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Missouri
                     frontier will be better served by the more balanced and thoroughly researched efforts
                    of Albert Castel and Michael Fellman.
            WILLARD CARL KLUNDER is an assistant professor at 
                        Wichita
                     State University, 
                        Wichita
                    . 
                        Kansas
                    . He teaches antebellum and Civil War courses and recently completed a biography of
                    Lewis Cass.
         
         
            
               Neither Ballots nor Bullets: Women Abolitionists and the Civil War. By Wendy
                    Hamand Venet. (
                        Charlottesville
                    : University Press of 
                        Virginia
                    , 1991. Pp. xii, 210. Illustrations, table, notes, essay on sources, index.
                    $25.00.)
            Recent scholarship has added greatly to an understanding of women in the antebellum period. The
                    antislavery and pro-women's rights activism of women like Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B.
                    Anthony, Angelina Grimke Weld, Harriet Beecher Stowe, and Lydia Maria Child are well known. However,
                    all of these women lived through the Civil War, but their story is often truncated by that event.
                    Wendy Hamand Venet has chosen to follow these women through the 1860s, charting their movement from
                    moral suasion into the political sphere.
            Despite stating a Civil War focus in the preface Venet's first two chapters review the
                    generally well-known antislavery activities of women before the war. Chapter three follows the
                    lecturing career of the flamboyant young Anna Dickenson. Chapters four to six contain the real
                    substance of Venet's research and her contribution to the literature in discussing the
                    various ways in which abolitionist women responded to the war. Venet argues that women such as
                    Harriet Beecher Stowe and Fanny Kemble 
                        Butler
                     "provided abolitionists with new arguments and antislavery women with
                    additional role models" (p. 92) through their writing and lecturing in 
                        England
                    . Stowe and 
                        Butler
                     tried to convince the English that the war was a conflict between slavery and freedom
                         and that 
                        England
                    's response should be support of the Union and not the Confederacy.
            Venet's final two chapters discuss the presidential election of 1864 and the rift within the
                    women's movement brought about by controversy over the inclusion of women's
                    suffrage in the Fourteenth Amendment.
            Venet's centerpiece chapter is on the Women's National Loyal League (Chapter 5).
                    She opens the chapter with Susan B. Anthony's observation in 1863, from which Venet takes
                    her title, that "women can neither take the ballot nor the bullet to settle this question;
                    therefore, to us, the right to petition is the one sacred right which we ought not to
                    neglect" (p. 94). The Women's National Loyal League, founded on May 14, 1863, and
                    headed by the dynamic organizing team of Stanton and Anthony, made the most of their right to
                    petition. Utilizing the league motto, "In emancipation is national unity," Venet
                    emphasizes that the league, having learned from experience of the limited appeal of strong feminism,
                    promoted its work by carefully appealing to "republican motherhood" and by
                    claiming the Civil War as the completion of the American Revolution. A petition of 100,000
                    signatures, including 3,666 from Indiana, was presented to Congress in 1864 calling for a
                    constitutional end to slavery.
            While subtitling her book "Women Abolitionists and the Civil War," Venet gives
                    selective attention to the northeastern, white, middle-class leadership. It is, of course,
                    legitimate to limit a work to such a focus. However, those looking for midwestern abolitionists will
                    be disappointed. The officers of the Women's National Loyal League were from
                            
                  New York, New Jersey
               , Pennsylvania, 
                  Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        California
                    . However, women from Indiana did attend their meetings, and Venet quotes one nameless
                    Hoosier who wanted to "arouse the smoldering fires of patriotism" (p. 108).
                    Josephine Griffing and Frances D. Gage of 
                        Ohio
                     and Hannah Tracy Cutler's lecture tour of 
                        Illinois
                     each receive only brief mention. Moreover, Venet argues that "leadership of
                    the national antislavery movement fell almost entirely to white men and women," (p. 110) a
                    position that has been challenged for nearly seventy years as erroneously identifying certain
                    white-led organizations with the entire antislavery movement. Thus her title is broader than her
                    focus.
            As a study of what these white women contributed during the war years, Venet has succeeded in filling
                    an important gap in women's studies literature. Her discussion of the Women's
                    National Loyal League is a major contribution. Although the book suffers from unevenness and the
                    lack of cohesive analysis, the work of female abolitionists during the Civil War is important,
                    particularly as it enhances an understanding of the postwar years.  The book is rightfully included as part of The Nation
                        Divided: New Studies in Civil War History, a series edited by James I. Robertson.
            CAROL HUNTER is assistant professor of history, Earlham College, 
                        Richmond
                    . She is working on African-American abolitionists in Indiana.
         
         
            
               Black Troops, White Commanders, and Freedmen during the Civil War. By Howard C.
                    Westwood. (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1992. Pp. ix, 189. Notes, index. $19.95.)
            The truth about the role of slavery and African Americans in the Civil War was one of the victims of
                    the Lost Cause, that large counterfactual myth that for one hundred years dominated, and still
                    marks, Civil War history. Designed to decontaminate secession and the Confederacy of slavery, this
                    myth removed blacks from their true role as the issue, ignored their actual participation in the
                    struggle, and portrayed them as unconcerned about their own enslavement. Today's generation
                    of historians has sought to exorcise this myth, but American history has not yet fully recovered
                    from it. Howard C. Westwood's book is another major step in correcting the record.
            The book is a series of topical essays, some of which have been previously published in historical
                    journals. The first four are concerned with the issue of black enlistment in the Federal army. With
                    fine insight and thorough familiarity with the facts, the writer details the halting and sometimes
                    inept Federal course that began in 1861 with a prohibition of black soldiers and ended with 180,000
                    of them, largely former slaves, in the 
                        United States
                     armies. Lincoln's role in this politically and socially complicated story is
                    carefully described, as is the sad tale of discrimination against these soldiers.
            Westwood devotes one chapter to a detailed accounting of the story of Robert Smalls, the slave
                    wheelman of the Confederate steamer Planter. In 1862, Smalls and several other
                    slaves captured this vessel in 
                        South Carolina
                     and delivered it to the Federal blockading squadron. Pronounced by Rear Admiral Samuel
                    F. DuPont as "one of the coolest and most gallant naval acts of the war," the
                    Smalls incident is well known, but Westwood tells it in unique and compelling detail.
            In other chapters, Westwood goes into the nooks and crannies of blacks’ roles. Here he
                    plows new ground, examining subjects that have previously received little or no attention: the
                    Confederacy's treatment of captured black Federal soldiers, including former slaves; the
                    army's reaction to black soldiers’ mutinies; early and unsuccessful efforts to
                    make land available for the freedmen; and the only known criminal case enforcing the Emancipation
                         Proclamation. These chapters are fascinating, and they also
                    serve to illuminate the tragic character of race relations at the time that abolition of slavery was
                    finally confronted by Americans.
            
               Black Troops is a valuable book. Concerned with an important aspect of the Civil
                    War, it is thoroughly researched, finely written, and highly informative. It reminds us that the war
                    cast a long shadow. We stand in that shadow today.
            ALAN T. NOLAN is a practicing lawyer and historian. In addition to numerous periodical articles,
                    he has written The Iron Brigade (1961), a Civil War military history, and, most
                    recently, Lee Considered: General Robert E. Lee and Civil War History
                (1991).
         
         
            
               United We Stand: The United Mine Workers of America, 1890—1990. By
                    Maier B. Fox. ([Silver Spring, Md.]: United Mine Workers of America, 1990. Pp. vii, 609. Notes,
                    sources, illustrations, table, bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            "Coal fueled the industrial revolution" (p. i). With that bit of wordplay, Maier B.
                    Fox opens his centennial history of the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA), probably the most
                    influential union in the nation's history. Fox traces the life of the UMWA in what will
                    certainly become a key source for students of that union and of coal mining in general. Just as
                    important, he provides a powerful reminder of the contributions made by progressive, socially
                    conscious unionism.
            Fox begins by briefly stressing the importance of the UMWA, noting that it has not only focused on
                    improving the lot of miners but has at times provided vital leadership to the 
                        United States
                     labor movement and has been a pioneer in the field of social legislation and innovative
                    contractual arrangements. He further notes that, while individual leaders and events associated with
                    the union have been studied, there is no available comprehensive history of the organization.
            With the stage set, Fox moves on to a roughly chronological discussion of the union's first
                    century. This is, by design, primarily an institutional history, focusing on leaders, organization,
                    strikes, contract negotiation, and legislation. Of course, the expected high points appear: the
                    union's birth struggle in the late nineteenth century; the exciting John 
                        Mitchell
                     period; the emergence of John L. Lewis as leader; Lewis's purges of opponents
                    in the 1920s, especially those on the Left, and his sudden (some would say opportunistic) embrace of
                    aggressive organizing and politicking during the 1930s; and the difficulties, political and
                    economic, of the post-Lewis years. Moreover, Fox frequently makes brief forays into such matters as
                    community, ideology, and similar topics of current interest to working-class historians.
            
            Fox also goes beyond what might be expected. For instance, he devotes significant attention to health
                    and welfare issues, which were of particular importance to workers engaged in a dangerous occupation
                    like mining but are often glossed over as merely another job benefit issue by outside observers. His
                    attention to Canadian members reminds readers that the United Mine Workers of America was not solely of the 
                        United States
                    .
            Unfortunately, the Hoosier state receives relatively little attention. Strikes, minor incidents,
                    state legislation, and other Indiana items briefly appear, as do some Hoosier labor leaders, but on
                    the whole other midwestern states receive more notice, particularly 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . This presumably reflects both the role played by the various states in the
                    union's history and the paucity of District 11 records.
            Although this book is published by the UMWA, Fox has not painted a uniformly positive picture. For
                    example, he describes Lewis's frequently dictatorial methods and discusses the 1969 murder
                    of defeated UMWA presidential candidate Jock Yablonski. While there is room for more serious
                    critique of some topics—for instance, a strong case can be made that Lewis's
                    purges in the 1920s robbed the union of a corps of effective, visionary leaders—on the
                    whole Fox provides a balanced presentation.
            A book of this type serves as a reference source. However, source notes are not used in the text;
                    rather, a list of sources appears at the end of each chapter. This makes it difficult to trace
                    Fox's sources. A glossary of coal mining-related terms and a more complete discussion of
                    the technical process of mining would be helpful, as would lists of national officers and tables of
                    membership totals.
            For those interested in coal mining and working-class history, United We Stand
                    provides a valuable overview of the union's history and countless ideas for future
                    research. It also provides a much-needed reminder of the vital role progressive unionism has played
                    in this nation's past and of the poverty of a body politic in which that influence has
                    become all too often weak and ineffectual.
            GARY L. BAILEY is assistant professor of history at Indiana University of Pennsylvania and
                    coordinates the university's participation in America's Industrial Heritage
                    Project. His research interests include working-class history and public history.
         
         
            
               Singing the Glory Down: Amateur Gospel Music in South Central 
                            Kentucky
                        , 1900–1990. By William Lynwood Montell. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1991. Pp. xi, 248. Map, illustrations, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $27.00.)
            The paucity of scholarly interpretations of American gospel music may stem from a failure among
                    historians to recognize the importance of the musical arts as an indicative component of culture.
                         It is not surprising then that twentieth-century gospel
                    music has received the attention of only a handful of scholars. Kip Lornell's recent study
                    of 
                        Memphis
                    -based black quartets, Happy in the Service of the Lord (1988), is a
                    significant exception to the rule. Folklorist William Lynwood Montell now provides a helpful
                    complement to Lornell's book with his examination of white gospel music in south central 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Montell investigates the gospel tradition in a nineteen-county area in southern 
                        Kentucky
                     and convincingly demonstrates that the heritage common to all local gospel groups can
                    be traced to the shape-note singing schools that appeared there around 1900. The shape-note system
                    offered an effective method for teaching four-part harmony to area residents who possessed little or
                    no musical training. The churches sponsoring the shape-note lessons also held public meetings
                    ("singing") devoted exclusively to the advancement of good congregational singing.
                    Sometime after 1910 churches within this area began holding countywide singing conventions that
                    afforded local congregations the opportunity to display their musical talents in an ecumenical
                    forum. Montell points out that the most talented singers from a given church or community often
                    formed quartets as a means of exhibiting the group's mastery of four-part harmony. After
                    World War II, rapid cultural change in the region precipitated the almost total demise of the
                    singing schools and conventions; the quartet movement endured, however. Montell chronicles the
                    influences that mass media have brought to bear on the gospel quartet movement since the 1950s and
                    concludes that despite many changes in the musical style, the tradition of the early shape-note
                    schools and conventions is still evident among many area groups.
            As in previous works, Montell corroborates his observations with a hefty dose of first person
                    accounts, many of which are beneficial to understanding his subject's view on music and
                    theology. Some portions of the text are, however, of dubious value to his study. Readers unfamiliar
                    with the people and communities of south central 
                        Kentucky
                     probably will not care that Lana Stuart married Maurice Miller, nor will they be
                    especially interested to read about Verna Vesse's open heart surgery in December, 1962. The
                    seemingly endless litany of names of individuals associated with the gospel music movement will cloy
                    all but the most loyal gospel music devotees. The same information, on the other hand, provides an
                    excellent reference source for those interested in the particulars of the region's gospel
                    music tradition. Parochial shortcomings notwithstanding, Montell's book is a significant
                    contribution to the understanding of white rural culture in the study area and of gospel music
                    within the broader American context.
            BRIANE K. TURLEY is a visiting assistant professor in the Religious Studies Department, West 
                        Virginia
                     University, Morgantown, West 
                        Virginia
                    . Turley's most recent published work is "A Wheel Within a Wheel:
                    Southern Methodism and the 
                        Georgia
                     Holiness Association," 
                  
                            Georgia
                         Historical Quarterly (Summer, 1991).
         
         
         
            
               Truman in the White House: The Diary of Eben A. Ayers. Edited by Robert H.
                    Ferrell. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1991. Pp. 402. Illustrations, index. $37.50.)
            President Harry S Truman began each morning in the Oval Office conferring around his desk with a
                    group of key aides. Unknown to those in attendance, Eben A. Ayers, Truman's assistant press
                    secretary until early December, 1950, kept a diary in which he recorded much of what was discussed.
                    Ayers also recorded conversations within the extended White House, especially those on board the
                    yacht 
                        
                            Williamsburg
                        
                    , where he joined the president and others on weekend outings. Robert H. Terrell's
                    edited version is about one-fourth the original length of Ayers's diary.
            This volume provides a human portrait of Truman that is familiar to historians. Ayers noted, for
                    example, that Truman once delighted in having made his wife "mad as a wet hen" (p.
                    340), awarded mock citations to assistants, lectured foreign journalists on how to represent
                    Americans abroad, and moved about the White House as though he were an ordinary employee. This is
                    also the portrait of a world leader, for Ayers recorded Truman's thoughts about weighty
                    matters such as the need for developing a hydrogen bomb. He also noted Truman's candid
                    appraisals of Joseph Stalin, Ernest Bevin, and other world leaders.
            Ferrell organized the diary into seven chapters, two for the year 1945 and one for each of the years
                    from 1946 through 1950. He introduces each chapter with a background statement sketching the
                    year's key events. He also provides editorial notes which identify unfamiliar persons,
                    elaborate on context, and comment on key issues in historical interpretation. Both the introductions
                    and the editorial notes are directed at the general reader. Indeed, though a fine source for
                    scholars, given Ayers's clear and informative writing style and Terrell's useful
                    editorial work, this volume belongs in public and undergraduate libraries. The diary provides an
                    entertaining and informative picture of a man whose presidency is crucial to understanding
                    international relations in the last half of the twentieth century.
            JAMES A. ZIMMERMAN is university professor of arts and sciences at Tri-State University, 
                        Angola
                    , Indiana. After several years in university administration, he is currently working on
                    American expansionism at the turn of the twentieth century.
         
         
            
               Divorce: An American Tradition. By Glenda Riley. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1991. Pp. xi, 262. Tables, illustrations, bibliography, notes, index.
                    $24.95.)
            Glenda Riley traces the chronological and regional patterns of American divorce. Individual states
                    took different paths: by 1850 
                        Utah
                     was granting consensual divorce; contrastingly 
                        South Carolina
                    
                     continued to outlaw divorce for any reason until after World
                    War II. Riley uses a wide range of primary sources, including archival material, statistics, and
                    interviews. She persuasively argues that the "historical conflict between anti-divorce and
                    pro-divorce factions has prevented the development of effective, beneficial divorce laws,
                    procedures, and policies" (p. vii). In an epilogue, she suggests six ways Americans and
                    American institutions could help reform divorce laws and reduce its long-term devastating effects.
            While older Americans remember the Nevada divorce mills, few realize that the first divorce capital
                    was 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Horace Greeley branded Indiana "the paradise of free lovers" (p.
                    62). Indiana gained notoriety by a combination of "lenient divorce statutes and sloppy
                    divorce procedures" (p. 62). It all began in 1852 when the Hoosier state abolished
                    legislative divorce, gave courts sole jurisdiction in divorce suits, and provided minimal residence
                    requirements and a "notice by publication" system. Thus a person could file for
                    divorce by posting an announcement in an Indiana newspaper which the spouse might never see. Since
                    Indiana divorce was recognized as binding by all states, "an un-notified spouse, divorced
                        in absentia, had no recourse" (p. 64). Under pressure from citizens,
                    the Indiana legislature in 1873 raised the residency requirement and allowed appeals on the matters
                    of alimony, child custody, and property. While Riley chronicled the public perception of the state
                    "full of divorce hunting men and women" (p. 67), she also examined the divorce
                    statistics and concluded it was "difficult to either brand the state a divorce mill or
                    absolve it of guilt" (p. 67). Whatever the reality in Indiana, by the latter part of the
                    nineteenth century, Reno had seized the title of divorce capital.
            Not only does Divorce provide a solid foundation for understanding the past
                    American record but it also should help readers view divorce as a common phenomenon in America
                    rather than an aberration; a symptom, not a disease. Too often, divorce has led to impoverished
                    female-headed households, to children who become problems in school and are themselves likely to
                    divorce, and to blended families which have difficulty adjusting to the "new"
                    family and overcoming the legacies of the broken marriage. As Riley argued persuasively,
                    "we need to reshape the institution of divorce with an eye to the people involved rather
                    than according to our own attitudes toward divorce" (p. viii).
            Riley's pioneering, ambitious, and well-written monograph should become the standard work.
                    Only two other historians have attempted a survey—the first almost a century ago, the
                    other thirty years ago—and neither ranks with Riley's work. Divorce: An American Tradition should be added to public libraries as well as college and
                    university collections.
            D'ANN CAMPBELL is dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, Austin Peay State
                    University, Clarksville, 
                        Tennessee
                    .
         
         
         
            
               Listening to Old Voices: Folklore, Life Stories, and the Elderly. By Patrick B.
                    Mullen. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1992. Pp. xii, 292. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $30.95.)
            Like many oral historians and folklorists, Patrick B. Mullen is drawn to
                    "tradition-bearing" elderly folk who enjoy nothing better than sitting on front
                    porches and spinning tales as soon as the "record" button on a tape recorder is
                    depressed. For Mullen, the experience is both rewarding and personal: "Ideologically, I am
                    an advocate for the elderly, for their right to be respected, to be heard" (p. 8). Listening to Old Voices is a collection of what Mullen calls life
                    reviews—very simply, old people telling personal experience stories—of nine
                    aged people from 
                        Ohio
                     and the Blue Ridge. Life reviews are no mere escapist desires for days gone by,
                    however; Mullen believes they are a major part of aging well and dying well. But as oral historians
                    examine the historical content of narratives, Mullen analyzes the folkloric content. His aim is to
                    interpret the way folk traditions are called upon when an elderly person tells his or her life
                    review.
            Mullen has carefully chosen his narrators to reveal the diversity of folk traditions. Mollie Ford is
                    a devoutly religious woman who preaches her values to the young; Bob 
                        Glasgow
                     uses the material culture associated with a family I-house to explain his past; Alva
                    Snell draws upon the occupational folklore of Lake Erie fishermen for his identity; and 
                        Quincy
                     Higgins is a trickster who loves to entertain his listener. Although the people are
                    different, they all function as teachers, preachers, or sages passing on their knowledge,
                    interpretation, and values to a new people in a new age. Herein reveals a problem with the book.
                    Reading the narratives is a wonderful experience, but the reader is teased with snippets from each
                    interview (those wanting to hear the entire interview are not given its location). Mullen's
                    methodological base is life review, but the reader does not get enough of each person's
                    review. Others may also find his choppy way of quoting scholars intrusive. These are ironic
                    objections: oral history has obviously come far since the days it was condemned for too little
                    analysis.
            Nevertheless, Mullen is an honest scholar never hesitant to admit ignorance or that tape ran out
                    during a particularly revealing description. Quibbles aside, Listening to Old
                    Voices demonstrates the extraordinary richness of oral history fieldwork and synthesizes
                    literature from history, folklore, anthropology, and psychology. It will be valuable to scholars
                    from these disciplines and may also lure into the field those reluctant to study people.
            CHAD BERRY is an editorial assistant with the Journal of American History. He
                    has interviewed a number of elderly people, most recently for his dissertation, "Social
                    Highways: White Southerners, Migration, and Indiana, 1920–1990."
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
