
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 37, Issue 3, pages 205-305. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:37+issue:3+year:1941&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Early Life of Lew Wallace
            IRVING MCKEE
            
            
               
                        Brookville
                    , all of twenty years old in 1827, was one of the foremost towns in Indiana, and Indiana
                    in turn was the shining goal of farm-hungry settlers by thousands. A land office had followed the
                    retreating Indians there and now offered plow-resistant acres at a dollar and a quarter. In
                    response, as soon as the 
                        Ohio
                     River became navigable and the road passable in the spring, came the immigrants, poling
                    flatboats up into the Whitewater or prodding teams across the state line.1
            
            The tavern in 
                        Brookville
                     was conducted by Andrew Wallace, a third-generation Scotch-Irishman whose experience,
                    at forty-nine, made him a capable host. He had kept a store at 
                        Carlisle
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , completed the first land survey at 
                        Troy
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , published books and a newspaper at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and fathered seven sons and a daughter.2 He had rubbed elbows with
                    William Henry Harrison, farmer and Indian-fighter. Since then, of course, Harrison had routed
                    Tecumseh's warriors at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and been elected 
                        United States
                     senator. As evidence of this connection Andrew cited the success of his eldest son,
                    "Colonel" David Wallace, whose brick house stood not far from the tavern. Harrison
                    had placed at the disposal of his 
                        Cincinnati
                     neighbor, Andrew 
                  
                     1 Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915, 1918), I, 239, 271, 306, 314; "The Whitewater
                            Valley…. " The Indianian, III (1899), 101-09; Amos W.
                            Butler, "Notes Concerning 
                                Brookville
                            , Ind., A Century Ago" in Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XIII, 148; Berry R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion
                                 County, Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884), 214B.
                  
                     2 Neander M. Woods, Woods-McAfee Memorial (
                                Louisville
                            , Ky., 1905), 355; Henry Howe, Historical Collections of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1902), II, 248; Charles T. Greve, Centennial History of 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 and Representative Citizens (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1904), I, 790; Lew Wallace, An Autobiography (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1906), I, 2, 3.
               
                     Wallace, an appointment to West Point originally earmarked for
                    one of Harrison's own sons. After graduation David taught mathematics at the Academy for
                    two years and then, no war being in sight, resigned from the army to return to 
                        Brookville
                     with the title of Colonel. A year's study at the office of Judge Miles C.
                    Eggleston—whose first cousin, once removed, was to write The Hoosier
                            Schoolmaster3
               —won admittance to the bar. Another year
                    brought sufficient prosperity to warrant marriage with Esther French Test of 
                        Brookville
                    , daughter of a judge and sister of a judge-to-be.4 Dark-eyed,
                    clean-shaven, David at twenty-eight was "a man of noble presence in the slender elegance of
                    youth," wrote David's son.5
            
            This last mentioned son, Lewis Wallace, was born on April 10, 1827, and named after Major Samuel
                    Lewis, U.S.A., an uncle by marriage.6 Other uncles, blood kin, were to attain
                    distinction—Benjamin Franklin Wallace in the 
                        Iowa
                     legislature, John Thomson Wallace in the 
                        United States
                     Adjutant General's office, and William Henson Wallace, Governor of 
                        Washington
                    , Governor of 
                        Idaho
                    , and delegate to Congress from both territories in turn—but their fame lay
                    in the future.7 So none of the Colonel's four sons—William,
                    born in 1825; Lewis, 1827; John Test, 1829; Edward Test, 1831—was named after one of his
                    three successful brothers.8
            
            Months of each year David saw little of his family. At first he accompanied the Third Judicial Court,
                    astride "Ball," a horse valued as high as forty dollars.9
                    Then, elected on the Whig ticket, he attended three consecutive sessions of the Assembly at 
                        Indianapolis
                     (the pay was two dollars a day).10 Meanwhile the land office, like
                    "the pillar of a cloud" in Exodus, 
                  
                     3 Harriet C. Goode (Judge Eggleston's granddaughter) to
                            Irving McKee, March 27, 1940.
                  
                     4 George S. Wallace (comp.), Wallace; (Genealogical
                            Data (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1927), 141; Wallace, Autobiography, I, 5, 32.
                  
                     5 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 4–5.
                  
                     6 George S. Wallace, Wallace, 143.
                  
                     7 Hubert H. Bancroft, Works (39 vols., 
                                San Francisco
                            , 1883–1890), XXXI, 71n., 211, 218, 442, passim.
                  
                     8 George S. Wallace, Wallace, 143; Wallace, Autobiography, I, 8.
                  
                     9 Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1858), 5, 118–19; Charles W. Taylor, Biographical
                                Sketches and Review of the Bench and Bar of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895), 140.
                  
                     10 William W. Woolen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 70; Indiana, Special Acts, 2nd Session,
                                1817–1818, ch. XXVIII, sec. 2.
               
                     had moved westward from 
                        Brookville
                     to the state capital.11 The Colonel, now Lieutenant-Governor (also
                    at two dollars a day), read the signs; joining brother Benjamin in
                    "merchandising," he transplanted his family across Indiana to 
                        Covington
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                     in the spring of 1832.12 En route two of his sons contracted
                    scarlet fever; John died at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but Lewis, despite scalding saffron tea, recovered, remembering till old age his
                    mother's eyes, swimming in tears.13
            
            
               
                        Covington
                     was in uproar, like 
                        Cincinnati
                     twenty years before (so the frontier went). In May a large body of hostile Sauks under
                    Black Hawk swooped out of the West coming within thirty miles, killing two settlers; another attack
                    was expected every day. No sooner had the Wallaces taken root in their one-story frame house than
                    the Colonel was raising and drilling a company of militia. They never marched to war, for
                    "Black Hawk soon suffered defeat, but the incident left a deep impression on the
                    five-year-old Lewis.14
            
            He embarked upon a school career in the best American —especially
                    Indiana—tradition: daydreams punctuated by floggings, truancies evoking maternal tears
                    and the paternal rod. One of these phenomena ceased with a vengeance when, in 1834, Esther Wallace
                    died of "galloping" consumption. Her friends remembered her as a devout and
                    charitable Methodist, but withal so irrepressible in social enjoyment that she could dance from
                    Sunday to Sunday. Her son Lewis, at 
                  
                     11 "The Whitewater Valley," The
                                Indianian, III, 101-09.
                  
                     12 Anna L. Lingelbach, "David Wallace" in Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928–1936); Woollen, Biographical Sketches, 70;
                            Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), I, 99, Constitution of 1816, Art. IV, sec. 15–16; The Revised Laws of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1831), ch. XXXVII, sec. 3; Ella Lonn, "Ripples of the Black Hawk War
                            in Northern Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XX,
                            288–307. Lew Wallace recalled that the family moved in "the first summer
                            month," but he was attending school during the Black Hawk episode, May-August; so
                            he must have moved to 
                                Covington
                             in May at the latest. Wallace, Autobiography, I, 9. Benjamin
                            Franklin Wallace was state senator from 
                                Franklin County
                            , 1831–1832, as well as merchant. Thomas F. Davidson, History of 
                                    Fountain
                                 County, 46, 96 [this work is paged separately but bound with Hiram W.
                            Beckwith, Historic Notes on the 
                                    Wabash
                                 Valley (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881)].
                  
                     13 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 9.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 9, 16–18; Lonn, "Ripples of the Black Hawk War
                            in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XX, 288–307;
                            Sanford C. Cox, Recollections of the Early Settlement of the 
                                    Wabash
                                 Valley (
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, 1860), 86–97.
               
                     seventy, paid tribute to "her eyes, large, sparkling,
                    and deeply brown—they follow me yet."15
            
            Education continued sporadically at 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , thirty miles east, where the three Wallace boys were boarded out while their father
                    earned a solid reputation as president of the Indiana Senate.16 The preparatory
                    department of 
                        Wabash
                    , 
                        Crawfordsville
                    's new Presbyterian college, as well as the county seminary there, were
                    uncongenial to the tow-headed Lewis; in each the inevitable bullying master ruled, and, fleeing
                    each, the truant learned more of woods and fields than of grammar, arithmetic, and Latin. At the end
                    of three years the Lieutenant-Governor returned to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     with his party's nomination for the governorship and with a new wife, the
                    former Zerelda Gray Sanders, nineteen, daughter of a well-to-do 
                        Indianapolis
                     physician.17 David Wallace had been one of the foremost proponents
                    of Indiana's impossible, grandiose Internal Improvement Act of 1836, fuse of an ultimately
                    unfortunate speculative boom; but he won handily in the gubernatorial election of 1837. With his
                    wife and four children (the new union had quickly borne fruit) he moved back to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Despite a current bank panic, the new Governor (whose salary was $1200 a
                    year) assured everybody that the outlook was glorious.18
            
            The Hoosier capital lived in the future. Stumps were frequent in its vacant lots; there was no
                    railroad, and it was a ten days' haul to the 
                        Ohio
                     River, the main line of extra-state commerce. Nevertheless, immigrants were swelling
                    the population of the city beyond the four-thousand mark, digging 
                  
                     15 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 20–33;
                            obituary of Esther Wallace, Western Constellation (
                                Covington
                            , Indiana), July 18, 1834. A silhouette of his mother with an inscription in his
                            handwriting hangs in the Lew Wallace Study, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            .
                  
                     16
                            Woollen, Biographical Sketches, 70.
                  
                     17 Sister-in-law of Dr. Richard J. Gatling, inventor of the Gatling
                            gun, she became first president of the W.C.T.U. and, according to Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana and Indianans (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), II, 1059, was "recognized everywhere as the foremost woman
                            speaker of the State." See also Frances E. Willard and Mary A. Livermore, American Women (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1897), II, 742, and William H. Smith, The History of the State of
                                Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1897), II, 870–72. The second Mrs. Wallace gained nationwide favor
                            in W.C.T.U. circles.
                  
                     18 Sulgrove, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 114; Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 417,
                            456–59; Alvin F. Harlow, Old Towpaths (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 270–71; George S. Wallace, Wallace, 143; Revised Laws of Indiana, 1831, ch. XXXVII, sec. 2, 256.
               
                     canals and laying track. Imminent wealth dominated the dusty
                    odors of construction. Nothing in 
                        Covington
                     or 
                        Crawfordsville
                     compared with the state house, gala in its fresh stucco. Overawed by this
                    sixty-thousand-dollar edifice, Lewis Wallace would have been the last to concur in the
                    historian's judgment that it was "spoiled by a contemptible little dome, about as
                    suitable as an army cap on the Apollo Belvidere."19
            
            New diversions, however, served merely as new motives for truancy, and the local seminary compared
                    favorably in brutality with those left behind.20 Watching Jacob Cox. pioneer
                    Indiana artist, execute a portrait of the Governor,21 the boy discovered in
                    himself a yearning for brush and pigment which, though temporarily stifled by his practical father,
                    remained with him through life. In the state house library, he made the acquaintance of Washington
                    Irving and James Fenimore Cooper, whose vistas succeeded those of Jesse Olney's Geography, Plutarch's Lives, and The Life
                        of Daniel Boone. As a member of "The Red Eye and the Hay Press Club,"
                    with quarters accessible only by trap-door, he engaged in garden-raids, feasts, bell-pullings, and
                    athletic contests in the woods.22 Berry R. Sulgrove, subsequently a prominent
                    local historian and newspaperman, was a favorite companion. Truancy reached a climax late in May,
                    1840, when 
                        Indianapolis
                     was the rallying-point for a mammoth Harrison-for-President celebration to be staged at
                    Tippe-canoe Battleground. Whig delegates and delegations, twenty thousand strong—in
                    carriages, on horseback, on foot— formed a column twenty-five miles in length up the
                    four-day route to the Battleground. His father away, Lewis Wallace joined the parade and lived
                    thrillingly under the "Log Cabin and Hard Cider" banner for twelve days.23
            
            By this time Governor Wallace was desperately striving 
                  
                     19 Sulgrove, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 16, 103–04, 122; Jacob P. Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), I, 105: Wallace, Autobiography, I, 47–48.
                  
                     20 Sulgrove, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 214B; Wallace, Autobiography, I, 51.
                  
                     21 The portrait was reproduced in Dunn, Indiana and
                                Indianans, I, 423.
                  
                     22 Sulgrove, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 59, 266–68; Wallace, Autobiography, I,
                            48–51, 52–55.
                  
                     23 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 73–75;
                            William R. Holloway, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                , a Historical and Statistical Sketch (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 70–71; Esarey, History of Indiana, I,
                        364.
               
                     to retrieve a hopeless political situation. His fortunes had
                    risen with the Internal Improvement Act, and they rapidly declined with it. At the end of 1838 he
                    dolefully "addressed the Assembly concerning the state balance sheet, riddled with bad
                    planning, incompetent administration, and outright embezzlement. His proclamation, November 28,
                    1839, of the first Thanksgiving Day in Indiana, was bitter irony in view of the fifty
                    years' debt and humiliation the state faced. Inevitably the Whigs repudiated him in their
                    1840 convention.24 The ex-Governor moved his household to a one-story,
                    weather-boarded log building on 
                        Massachusetts
                     Avenue, with a farm attached, and turned to consider the refractory Lewis again. In
                    four years the boy had failed in as many schools; people were branding him, at thirteen, as wicked
                    and destined for hanging.
            Professor Samuel K. Hoshour, specialist in German, was well spoken of as a moulder of the young; to
                    him, at 
                        Centerville
                    , a village seventy miles east, went Lewis. He and his older brother William, a model
                    student, were boarded by Aunt Rebecca Test of 
                        Centerville
                    .25 The expedient turned out surprisingly well. Jaws decorated by
                    fascinating yellow wattles, Hoshour was the first sympathetic teacher Lewis had met, or recognized.
                    Upon occasion he still received a flogging, but the pain was ameliorated by discrimination and sound
                    justice. Moreover Hoshour revealed the splendors of John Quincy Adams's Lectures on Rhetoric and Oratory, The Spectator, The Vicar of Wakefield, and the verses in
                    St. Matthew telling of the three wise men, later on to be the genesis of Ben-Hur.
               26
            
            
               
                  24 Harlow, Old Towpaths, 263–78; Sulgrove,
                            
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            , 379; Woollen, Biographical Sketches, 71.
               
                  25 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 55–56; Hoshour
                        taught at the "old seminary" at 
                            Centerville
                        , built in 1827, which became the nucleus of the short-lived Whitewater College
                        (1853–1870); see Helen V. Austin, "Historic Houses and Personages of 
                            Centerville
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, I, 180. David Wallace, as
                        president of an educational convention at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , heard Hoshour speak in 1839. The latter became Superintendent of Public
                        Instruction at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1862–1863, Sulgrove, 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            , 494. Charles H. Test lived for a time at 
                            Centerville
                        ; Taylor, Bench and Bar, 70–71. Test was married to Rebecca Davis, Commemorative Biographical Record of Prominent and Representative Men of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and Vicinity (
                            Chicago
                        , 1908), 91; Walter E. Spahr, History of 
                            Centerville
                        , manuscript in Indiana State Library, 111.
               
                  26 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 55–59. A fellow
                        student at 
                            Centerville
                         was Oliver P. Morton, who, as Governor of Indiana, in 1861, launched Wallace upon
                        his Civil War career, ibid., I, 260–62; Sulgrove, 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            , 186–99.
            
            
            Back at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     seminary after a year, Lewis suddenly found he could more than hold his own there. On
                    Friday evenings the classroom was the scene of the Union Literary Society's meetings,
                    throbbing with debates, recitations, readings, and parliamentary exercises. The chairman meted out
                    assignments and levied uncollectable fines; strangely enough, the Society lived for eighteen
                        years.27 With various young ladies for inspiration, lyrics flowed freely
                    from young Wallace's pen and were not only read to the members of the Society but,
                    occasionally, published in a friendly newspaper. In time there evolved a historical poem with John
                    Smith of 
                        Virginia
                     the hero, in the style of "Marmion" and "The Lay of the Last
                    Minstrel," its several hundred lines concluding, to the author's entire
                    satisfaction, with the rescue of Pocahontas.28 This was followed by a rather
                    elaborate epic called "The Travels of a Bed-bug," in which the main character
                    sprang from the quarters of a local lawyer, passed from office to office and from hotel to hotel,
                    until, like Alexander, it succumbed to overdrink. Here a poetic career also expired, for upon
                    publication Lewis found himself the object of search by several gentlemen with canes in their
                        hands.29
            
            With more profit the aspirant, now sixteen, turned to the novel. "Even then," he
                    recalled a half-century later, 
                  
                     27 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 60–61;
                            Sulgrove, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 106.
                  
                     28 Perhaps partly inspired by Robert Dale Owen's play, Pocahontas, performed by the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Thespian Corps in the winter of 1839–1840, with William Wallace in
                            the title role and Lewis as "Numony," Pocahontas's sister. Dunn,
                            Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            , I, 460.
                  
                            
                        29 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 61–62. In
                                addition, a poem of his entitled "Lines Addressed to the Lady Who Bandaged My
                                Cut Finger— An After-Thought," survives from this period. The first
                                of its five stanzas run: 
                                    " 'Twas a little thing, a simple kindness,
                                    Yet I cannot pass it by:
                                    The blood-drop from the wound you answered
                                    With a tear-drop in your eye."
                                
                     
                            Of the Sturm und Drang school is "The Dream," of
                                which the following lines are sufficiently suggestive: 
                                    "I lay in utter darkness of soul. My heart
                                    Was as morally diseased. Its blood
                                    Was still, and flowed laggard-like. Life was
                                    As a sky starless and cloud-veiled …
                                    … By my side stood a form
                                    Higher in the scale of beauty than aught
                                    Of angel e'er dreamed….
                                    
                              ‘I am thy Destiny,’ said the golden
                                        mist…
                                    My Destiny was good and from Heaven."
                                
                     
                            (Manuscripts in the Indiana State Library.)
                        
               
                     "the importance to a writer of first discerning a body
                    of readers possible of capture and then addressing himself to their tastes was a matter of instinct
                    with me." At the moment the Society's taste ran to G.P.R. James, who had
                    reiterated Richelieu (1829) with six other weighty tales of knighthood. James was
                    easier to imitate than Scott, who had served James for a model, as Thackeray's Burlesques had demonstrated.30
            
            Lewis Wallace's "The Man-at-Arms: A Tale of the Tenth Century" owed much
                    of its romanticized history and extravagant sentiment to James; for battle scenes the Hoosier
                    apprentice acknowledged a debt to James Macpherson's Ossian. In the
                    course of two hundred and fifty closely written pages of foolscap, Pedro, a valiant page, ran the
                    gamut from agony to bliss in his devotion to Inez, the Rose of Guadalajara (meaningfully aged
                    sixteen). Clandestine meetings led to Pedro's banishment, à la Romeo and Juliet, but a nurse and a hermit, also faintly Shakespearean, conspired to
                    effect a secret marriage. Betrayed, Inez was incarcerated by wrathful parents and her marriage
                    fraudulently annulled. She escaped a threatened match with an eligible prince by feigning madness. A
                    helmet hiding his identity, Pedro became a hero of the First Crusade, and in time the father of Inez
                    was overtaken with such remorse that he too, with his family, embarked on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem.
                    There, with Pedro apparently (but only apparently) dying, Inez' sanity returned and the two
                    were reunited.31
            
            The foolscap disappeared, happily, during the Mexican War, but at the time that it absorbed ink in
                    David Wallace's law office above a shoe shop and was read to an attentive Society, it
                    served a significant purpose. It left with the tyro the lifelong conviction that the sentimental
                    historical novel was not only a popular medium, but one which lent itself readily to his hand.32
            
            The impulse of truancy, though more often dormant, 
                  
                     30 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 62–63.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., I, 63–72; Meredith Nicholson, The
                            Hoosiers (
                                New York
                            , 1900), 181.
                  
                     32 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 72; Sulgrove, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 53.
               
                     still remained. It broke out one day when Lewis and Aquilla
                    Cook, two years older and "bright,"33 had been reading
                    accounts of the heroic fight at the 
                        Alamo
                     in 
                        Texas
                     a few years before, and of the giants who there met their death. Perhaps a vague desire
                    to avenge that barbaric massacre—or maybe the threat of a new Mexican
                    attack—impelled the two to leave home and school to reinforce Commodore Moore of the
                    Texan Navy. In any event, after a vain attempt at recruiting, the boys embarked on a skiff down the
                        White River, intent upon overtaking a flatboat bound for 
                        New Orleans
                    . Unfortunately they were successfully pursued by Dr. Sanders and a constable.34
            
            For David Wallace there was nothing picturesque about the 
                        Alamo
                     incident; it was the last straw. The former Governor had served a term in Congress (at
                    eight dollars a day), had been defeated for re-election mainly because he had championed fantastic
                    Professor Samuel F. B. Morse's side of the "electro-magnetic-telegraph"
                    issue, and was now re-establishing a legal practice.35 He felt it his duty to
                    speak realistically and decisively to the tall, thin, and olive-hued, but withal robust youth, who
                    suddenly seemed a stranger. He did it with his accustomed good address and unexceptionable manners:
                        
                        Were I to die tonight, your portion of my estate would not keep you a month. I have struggled
                            to give you and your brothers what, 
                        
                           33 He was the son of John Cook, the first State House
                                    librarian (1841–1843). Aquilla subsequently married a dancer in 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    , and killed a man on her complaint that she had been insulted. He was
                                    never heard of afterwards, except in a letter to a 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     paper boasting of the way he had fooled the police and escaped arrest.
                                    See Sulgrove, 
                              
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 258.
                        
                           34 Wallace, Autobiography, I,
                                    75–77. Wallace dates the Texan War of Independence 1842 or 1843; actually
                                    it was fought and won in 1836, though Mexico did not recognize the new state of
                                    affairs until 1843. Popular works of the time were Sketches and
                                        Eccentricities of Col. David Crockett (
                                        New York
                                    , 1833); A Narrative of the Life of David Crockett
                                        … Written By Himself (
                                        Philadelphia
                                    , 1834); An Account of Col. Crockett's Tour to the
                                        North and Down East (
                                        Baltimore
                                    , 1835); and Col. Crockett's Exploits and
                                        Adventures in 
                                            Texas
                                        
                            (
                                        Philadelphia
                                    , 1837). See William J. Ghent, "David Crockett" in Dictionary of American Biography. The Dr. Sanders mentioned was
                                    the father of the stepmother of Lewis Wallace.
                        
                           35 Wallace, Autobiography, I,
                                    5–6; Woohen, Biographical Sketches, 71.
                     
                             in my opinion, is better than
                            money—education. Since your sixth year I have paid school-bills for you;
                            but—one day you will regret the opportunities you have thrown away. I am sorry,
                            disappointed, mortified; so, without shutting the door upon you, I am resolved that from
                            today you must go out and earn your own livelihood. I shall watch your course hopefully.36
                  
                    
            
            The two parted with mutual politeness, father inscrutable, son dazzled by the vast prospect of life
                    unshadowed by home or school. Not that he gazed without regret, at least in later recollection.
                    David Wallace assumed an awesome stature as his son recalled his love of literature, especially
                    Macaulay and the English quarterlies, and his fireside readings, with voice and expression of
                    remarkable sensitivity, from the writings of Lamb, Shakespeare, Milton, Scott, and Byron; from the
                    sermons of Chalmers, Hall, Bossuet, and Bourdaloue,37 and from the chronicles of
                    Thucydides and the history of George Bancroft. The elder Wallace had assigned declamations to his
                    sons and criticized the performance, with special attention to enunciation. Material included Thomas
                    Campbell's "Hohenlinden," Fitz-Greene Halleck's "Marco
                    Bozzaris," extracts from Webster's speeches, Robert Emmet's
                    "Vindication," Charles Phillips's "
                        Washington
                    ," William Collins's "Ode to the Passions," Lord
                    Byron's "Corsair," and Sir Walter Scott's
                    "Marmion" and "Battle of Beal' and Duine."38
            
            From these things Lewis now turned to the office of County Clerk Robert B. Duncan, who was courting
                    Aunt Mary Sanders and coaching brother William in law.39 Duncan gave young
                    Wallace records to copy—captions, pleadings, orders, judgments, dates of
                    filing—at ten cents a hundred words. Soon he was earning eighteen dollars a week, living
                    in a boarding house, attending sociables, and practicing the quadrille in a class conducted by a
                    bandy-legged little Frenchman dubbed "Do-ci-do."40 When this
                    respectable routine failed to quench his thirst of the spirit, he found 
                  
                     36 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 78–79.
                  
                     37 These preachers were probably Thomas Chalmers, Robert Hall,
                            Jacques-Beninge Bossuet, and Louis Bourdaloue.
                  
                     38 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 82–84.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., I, 85; Sulgrove, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 214B, 496.
                  
                     40 Heath Bowman, Hoosier (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1941), 128.
               
                     time in the hush of the courthouse vault to apply himself to
                    Lindley Murray's English Grammar, while Professor Hosh-our's
                    ghost looked approvingly over his shoulder. Then, late that year (1843), he took down from David
                    Wallace's shelves, still accessible, a new three-volume work by the great William H.
                    Prescott: History of the Conquest of Mexico. In this the apprentice hewer of tales
                    saw his block of marble. "As a history, how delightful it was!" he rhapsodized in
                    1896, "as a tale, how rich in attractive elements!—adventure, exploration,
                    combat, heroisms, oppositions of fate and fortune, characters for sympathy, characters for
                    detestation, civilization and religion in mortal issue." And the field was
                    "absolutely" untouched in fiction.41
            
            He commenced weaving the plot and establishing the background of The Fair God,
                    which was to be his first published novel, springing Phoenix-like from "The
                    Man-at-Arms." He loaded Prescott with marginal notes, and then (after learning Spanish)
                    Bernal Diaz' Historia Verdadera de la Conquista de la Nueva
                    España. Later, during visits to 
                        Washington
                    , were to come annotations of other sources—"Her-vara,
                    Sahagún, Torquemada"42—as he familiarized himself
                    with the cloud-capp'd towers, gorgeous palaces, and solemn temples of old Mexico. The
                    manuscript was begun in a blank-book one winter's night with no thought of publication,
                    according to the author. For thirty years thereafter 
                  
                     41 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 88–89.
                            Actually the field had been opened by Robert 
                                Montgomery
                             Bird's Calavar; or The Knight of the
                                Conquest (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1834); and The Infidel; or The Fall of Mexico (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1835); but it is highly doubtful whether Wallace had read or even heard of
                            these forgotten novels. He may have perused Robert Southey's Madoc (Edinburgh, 1805), a romance in blank verse dealing with early Mexico.
                  
                     42 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 90. Wallace, no doubt,
                            meant to refer to the following histories: Antonio de Herrera, Historia General
                                de los Hechos de los Castellanos (8 vols. in 4, Madrid, 1601–1615);
                            Bernardino Sahagun, Historia de la Conquista de Mexico (Mexico, 1829), and
                                Historia General de las cosas de Nueva España (3 vols.,
                            Mexico, 1829–1830); and Juan de Torquemada, Primera [segunda,
                            tercera] parte de los Veinte i un Libros Rituales y Monarchia Indiana
                            (Seville, 1615).
                  
                     43 Walter J. Turner, "Romance," in Edwin Markham,
                                The Book of Poetry (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928), II, 2791; Wallace, Autobiography, I,
                            88–91. Preliminary titles of Wallace's The Fair God (
                                Boston
                            , 1873), included The Last of the Tzins, The Last Days of Montezuma, Guatamozin
                            the Aztec, and Montezuma, the God of the Aztecs. Ibid., II, 890.
               
                     it served as a pastime, something to pick up—by
                    memory if, as was often the case, the blank-book had been left behind—when business
                    slackened, a train-ride grew dull, or a wait extended itself. Then indeed
            "Shining Popocatepetl
            The dusty streets did rule."43
            
         
         
         
            Jeremiah C. Sullivan, Hoosier Jurist
            JOSEPH HERMAN SCHAUINGER
            
            In the history of the 
                        United States
                     it is noticeable that among those around whom the breath of political scandal never
                    lingered, whose lives were distinguished by a universal acclamation for their spotless integrity and
                    blameless character, were eminent judges of our higher courts and great lawyers who attained a
                    national reputation for their legal powers without sacrificing their standard of ethics. John
                    Marshall, Joseph Story, James Kent, Joseph Hopkinson, William Gaston of 
                        North Carolina
                    , and Thomas Grimke of 
                        South Carolina
                     were noble examples in their profession. On such a roll of honor may be placed the name
                    of Jeremiah C. Sullivan, who was a justice of the Supreme Court of Indiana from 1837 to 1846. He was
                    a soldier and a father of soldiers, a shrewd lawyer, a learned and able judge, but above all else a
                    deeply religious gentleman.
            He was a native of the Valley of Virgina, where at Harrisonburg, on July 21, 1794, occurred his
                    birth. His father, Thomas Sullivan, son of a distinguished Irish barrister of the Roman Catholic
                    faith, was born in 
                        Ireland
                     in 1761. Coming to America in 1784 he married Margaret Irwin in Augusta County, 
                        Virginia
                    , March 29, 1791. Of his boyhood, Jeremiah informed his son: "I was once almost
                    as weak as you are, but I passed through the trial & obtained good
                        health."1 The future Indiana judge was sent to William and Mary
                    College for his formal education. After serving in the War of 1812, during which he rose to the rank
                    of major, he returned to 
                        Virginia
                     to study law. He was admitted to the bar in 1816, but, like Henry Clay and many other
                    illustrious lawyers, he felt that 
                        Virginia
                     was not only crowded but even overrun with legal talent, so decided to find a career in
                    his profession in the distant backcountry where opportunity was rife, able lawyers not so plentiful,
                    and business fairly brisk. On his way to 
                        Louisville
                    , he stopped at 
                        Cincinnati
                     where he heard of the chances for success which were offered by 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, a new and 
                  
                     1 Judge Jeremiah C. Sullivan to his son, Algernon S. Sullivan, July 1,
                            1845, in the Judge Sullivan Collection, Indiana Historical Society, William H. Smith
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     growing town on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                    . He arrived there in the fall of 1816. His parents came the next fall and a year later
                    Charlotte R. Cutler arrived from 
                        Virginia
                     to be his wife. The two were married at 
                        Madison
                     on July 28, 1818.2 He entered whole-heartedly into the affairs of
                    the town, and during his early life was an active Free Mason. He was elected in 1818 Grand Orator of
                    the Grand Lodge of Indiana.
            Young Major Sullivan soon won the confidence and esteem of his fellow townsmen. In less than four
                    years after his appearance, he was elected to the General Assembly as one of the representatives
                    from 
                        Jefferson County
                     for the session of 1820. Indiana had been admitted to the Union only four years
                    previously and this was but the fifth session of the new state's Assembly. The House
                    convened on November 27 at Corydon, then the capital, and elected William Graham as its Speaker. The
                    young legislator, Jeremiah Sullivan, soon found himself involved in ample work as he was appointed
                    to the ways and means committee, the judiciary committee, the military committee, the committee on
                    the establishment of the state seminary, and the select committee on Clark's land grant.3 He was chairman of the committee of the whole when it studied the
                    governor's message on domestic manufactures and the state of the currency.4 He introduced a resolution to appoint a committee to inquire into the expediency of
                    providing a poor house for each county,5 and proposed an amendment to the bill
                    on taxation to exempt the working tools of a mechanic from taxation.6
            
            The most important act of this Assembly was probably that which finally resulted in the designation
                    and naming of the state capital in its present central position. To find a suitable name was a
                    perplexing problem for the legislators, and, for a time, each new suggestion met with blank silence
                    or derisive laughter. Some favored one of Indian origin, that of Tecumseh being best liked. The name
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    
                  
                     2 All the dates are taken from the Family Bible.
                            Miss Cutler was born on May 10, 1799.
                  
                     3
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indians, 1820, pp. 13, 14, 20,
                            21, 62, and 86.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 23.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 95.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 142.
               
                     occurred to Sullivan; it seemed especially appropriate in the
                    eyes of the scholar because the Greek word for city, polis, meant "center
                    of." He and Samuel Merrill sought out Governor Jonathan Jennings to obtain his approval and
                    support, after which they introduced a resolution in the Assembly.7 Although at
                    first, this name was greeted with howls of mirth it was finally adopted, to the disgust and
                    amazement of many newspaper editors.8 At this session, the legislature approved
                    the payment of $48.48 to Sullivan for his services as prosecuting attorney for 
                        Jefferson County
                     in collecting $808.00 from the sheriff.9 The House also
                    considered a resolution to be sent to Congress favoring the admission of 
                        Missouri
                    , but it was not adopted, probably because it contained a clause condemning slavery.
                    Among the bills finally passed was one to build a state prison, one to build a poor house in 
                        Knox
                     County, and two for the improvement of financial conditions.
            Sullivan did not serve again in the legislature, although later he made an unsuccessful race against
                    William H. Hendricks for Congress. His family was increasing and he found it necessary to work hard
                    at his private practice to provide for their wants.10 He did not altogether give
                    up public office, for, in October, 1829, he served as agent for Indiana to meet an agent from 
                        Ohio
                     to confer upon building part of the proposed 
                        Wabash
                    -Erie Canal in 
                        Ohio
                    , as it had been found that navigable points on the rivers could not be united without
                    building part of the canal in the neighboring state. He and Willis Silliman, the agent from 
                        Ohio
                    , met in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and agreed that 
                        Ohio
                     should take part of the land grant offered by Congress for building the canal and at
                    the same time dig the part of the canal which had to run through that state.11
            
            
               
                  7 William W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of
                            Early Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1883), 367. This information was found in a letter from Sullivan to Governor
                        Conrad Baker.
               
                  8 One of these editorial comments was quoted in ibid.,
                        367.
               
                  9
                        Journal of the House, 1820, p. 71.
               
                  10 Seven daughters and five sons were born to the Sullivans: Thomas L. was
                        born September 8, 1819; Margaret, March 25, 1822; Algernon, April 5, 1826; Charlotte, April 24,
                        1828; Jeremiah, October 1, 1830; and Eliza, July 28, 1832. Not all of the children lived. His
                        father died January 23, 1827.
               
                  11 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1915, 1918), I, 406.
            
            
            Two years later, James Blake asked Senator John Tip-ton if he could obtain the office of 
                        United States
                     District Attorney for their mutual friend, "Major Sullivan." Blake
                    told Tipton that because of "some facts that have been developed" Samuel Judah had
                    not been made the candidate for the senatorship, and rumor had it he would either resign or be
                    removed from the office of district attorney. Blake added that as Senator Tipton knew of
                    Sullivan's qualifications he would say nothing about them, but assured him that the
                    appointment would not only gratify himself but would also render general satisfaction.12 Although Judah was dismissed from his office, because he had criticized President
                    Andrew Jackson, Sullivan did not receive the appointment. Nevertheless, he was by this time
                    recognized as one of the most distinguished lawyers in the state.
            It must have occasioned little surprise when Governor David Wallace sent in Sullivan's name
                    to the state Senate for confirmation to the vacancy in the state Supreme Court, created by the death
                    of John T. McKinney, who died in May, 1837. At the same time the Governor nominated Isaac Black-ford
                    and Charles Dewey, who were confirmed unanimously by the forty-six members voting. The vote on
                    Sullivan, however, was twenty-five in the affirmative and twenty in opposition.13 At the time of his appointment he was forty-three years old.
            The cases which came up to the Supreme Court generally were upon such prosaic matters as slander,
                    libel, trespass, and the other usual legal problems. It may be said that while Blackford, Dewey, and
                    Sullivan were upon the bench together, Indiana's Supreme Court stood in high regard
                    throughout the country, as they were thought to be among the ablest to occupy this bench. In the
                    fall term of 1837, Sullivan delivered twelve decisions of the court. He held, in the action of Case
                        v. Winship, that if a man made an absolute sale of goods and continued in
                    possession of them as the visible owner, with the consent of the buyer, the sale 
                  
                     12 J. Blake to John Tipton, December 10, 1832, Tipton Collection,
                            Indiana State Library.
                  
                     13
                            Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1837, pp. 117–18.
               
                     was prima facie fraudulent as to creditors, and that a case
                    where goods had been mortgaged formed no exception to the general rule. He felt that such conduct
                    would enable the defendant "to impose upon mankind by false appearances." Nor
                    would he admit parol evidence in extenuation.14 In another case decided during
                    the same term, he declared that a lower court had been in error in not allowing the defendant to
                    question a juror under oath as to whether he had formed an opinion upon the case. Concerning this he
                    said: "We regard the law as being now well settled, that it is a good cause of challenge to
                    a juror that he has expressed an opinion…. The difficulty is in determining how proof of
                    such an expression of opinion is to be obtained—whether by extrinsic evidence, or by
                    questions put to the juror on the voire dire?" Although a juror could not
                    be required to admit something which might tend to his dishonor or discredit, the judge thought that
                    this would not occur in such a case. He held that in civil cases the rule of misbehavior did not
                    hold, and the juror could admit that he had formed an opinion without being guilty of misbehavior or
                    anything dishonorable.15
            
            Sullivan wrote fourteen opinions during the May term of 1838. In one he held that an action for
                    slander could be tried in Indiana for words spoken in another state, as the action was transitory,
                    and the defendant's liability followed him wherever he went. It was not necessary that the
                    slander be committed in the county in which the trial was held. The defendant had maintained that he
                    had a right so to speak as the plaintiff had stolen a horse in 
                        Kentucky
                    , but Judge Sullivan stated that justification in slander required the same kind of
                    proof to maintain it that was necessary to convict the plaintiff of the crime.16
                    Nor, in a suit against a husband and wife, for words spoken by the wife, was evidence of the
                    husband's efforts to prevent the circulation of the slander admissable in mitigation of
                        damages.17
            
            Naturally many cases of trespass in the young and 
                  
                     14 4 
                        
                                    Blackford
                                , 424.
                  
                     15 Maize v. Sewell, 4 
                        
                                    Blackford
                                , 447.
                  
                     16 Offutt v. Earlywine, ibid.,
                            460.
                  
                     17 Yeates & wife v. Reed & wife, ibid., 462.
               
                     growing state came before the court. In this same term. May,
                    1838, Judge Sullivan declared that when a court of limited jurisdiction exceeded its rightful powers
                    all concerned were liable to the party injured. Therefore, a justice of the peace who issued a writ
                    of domestic attachment, without requiring bond to be filed according to the statute, was in error
                    and liable. He, the party procuring the act, and the officers who executed the decision were all in
                        trespass.18 In Summy v. Mulford, he declared that if a
                    person erected a mill dam across a water course and so caused the land of another to- be overflowed,
                    without first taking out a writ of ad quod damnum, he could not by subsequently
                    taking out such a writ, have the damages assessed under it and then by tendering the amount of the
                    assessment, avoid an action by the parties injured for the damages sustained.19
                    In a celebrated case, now widely quoted as authority in commentaries and textbooks, the Hoosier
                    justice maintained that although the title may come in question it was not essential to an action in
                    trespass quare clausum fregit that it should. In the case of the State v. Newton, the defendant had entered a school section, cut down and carried away
                    lumber, and as a defense had sought to show that the state did not have title to the land and so
                    could not sue. Sullivan stated that although the grant of section sixteen was not to the state but
                    to the inhabitants of the respective townships in which the lands were located, yet the state might
                    have acquired, subsequently to such grant, a sufficient interest in the land to maintain the
                        suit.20
            
            The Constitution of Indiana at this time provided that the judges of the Supreme Court be appointed
                    by the governor, with the advice and consent of the state Senate, and serve for a period of seven
                    years. With the close of the November term of 1845, the terms of all three judges expired. Governor
                    James Whitcomb immediately sent to the Senate the name of that veteran jurist, Isaac Blackford, who
                    had already served almost three decades, and his appointment was promptly confirmed. He failed,
                    however, to send 
                  
                     18 Barkelov v. Randall & another, 4 Blackford, 475.
                  
                     19 5 Blackford, 201.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 455.
               
                     in either Sullivan's or Dewey's name but
                    instead sought to fill their places with others, and at once a furious controversy began to rage
                    throughout the state, as charge followed charge and accusations were hurled from all sides.
            Governor Whitcomb nominated several Democrats, but each of them was rejected. No settlement having
                    been made at the time of the Assembly's adjournment, the Governor made pro tern
                    appointments. The Whigs accused the Governor of not appointing Sullivan and Dewey because they were
                    not Democrats, as Blackford was, and because he wished to obtain his own election to the 
                        United States
                     Senate and thought to do so by pulling certain wires, by flattering certain powerful
                    individuals, such as editors, and by holding these positions as rewards. An article in the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Republican Banner, signed "Lex," reported that the members of
                    both branches of the legislature petitioned him to continue both men on the bench, but that in spite
                    of this the Governor made eight different nominations, all of whom were known as violent partisans,
                    generally editors, and that all were rejected. The legislators, according to this writer, went home
                    twice to ascertain the sentiment of their constituents and finding that it corresponded to their
                    own, renewed their petition.21 Two weeks later the same writer charged that the
                    Governor's action was unconstitutional, as two of the judges held their commissions at the
                    will of "James Whitcomb alone," and one of these against the will of the Senate,
                    three times expressed.22 The editor of the Indiana State
                    Journal, published in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , accused Whitcomb of prostituting the power of appointment of the Supreme Court for
                    purposes of partisan aggrandizement.23 A few months previously, this paper
                    stated that the session of 1844–1845 was notorious for its "wire-working and
                    intrigue," and that the contest between the Governor and the Lieutenant-Governor for the
                    senatorship was the cause of the conflict. In the same issued it was stated that the successor of
                    Sullivan, Samuel E. Perkins of 
                        Wayne
                     County, was a young editor with a limited law practice, who only a year before had
                        
                  
                     21
                            Republican Banner (
                                Madison
                            , Indiana), July 8, 1846.
                  
                     22
                            Republican Banner, July 22, 1846.
                  
                     25
                            Indiana State Journal (
                                Indianapolis
                            ), July 1, 1846.
               
                     made application to practice law in the Supreme Court. The
                    editor declared that his examination for that privilege had been a joke, and gave sample answers
                    from it, one of which read: "I cannot tell… not having practiced in the Supreme
                    Court, my attention has not been called to it …. I will look [it up]
                        tomorrow."24
            
            Another editorial in the Republican Banner was entitled
                    "Whitcomb's Mendacity." According to it, the Governor had stated in a
                    recent speech at 
                        Evansville
                     that the reason he had not renominated Sullivan was because the latter "had
                    become too aged and infirm to discharge the duties of his office!!" and that he had,
                    therefore, preferred younger and more active men. The editor wondered what the citizens of
                    Jefferson, Switzerland, Jennings, and Scott counties would say about this, knowing that Sullivan
                    was, comparatively speaking, a young man, even younger than the Governor, while Judge Dewey had
                    almost arrived at manhood when Sullivan was born.25
            
            While Governor Whitcomb was assailed, while his ears rang with denunciation, Sullivan's were
                    filled with words of praise and comfort. As long before as 1842, Pleasant Hackleman, editor of the
                        
                  
                            Rushville
                         Whig, had remarked that "amid the ruin and desolation which
                    surrounded Hoosier affairs, they have only one thing to be proud of, and that is their Supreme
                    Bench. This is an ornament to American jurisprudence."26 The Indiana State Journal pointed out that while these three men were on the bench
                    their decisions were held in the highest esteem and were regarded as good law in every state.27 In almost the same words the Republican Banner paid tribute
                    to the court, saying, 
                        No one has ever been heard to question their [Dewey and Sullivan] integrity or ability
                            … which reflects a signal honor to the state and themselves. The Reports of our
                            Court were esteemed among the best and of the highest authority.28
                  
                    
            
            An 
                        Evansville
                     correspondent for the latter paper, signing 
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., March 18, 1846.
                  
                     25
                            Republican Banner, July 22, 1846.
                  
                     26
                            Indiana Daily Journal, June 7, 1842, as quoted in Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 525.
                  
                     27
                            Indiana State Journal, March 18, 1846.
                  
                     28
                            Republican Banner, July 8, 1846.
               
                     himself "Flagellum," after reporting
                    Whitcomb's speech in 
                        Evansville
                     in which the Governor made the declaration concerning Sullivan, said that the Judge was
                    a man 
                        with an unimpeachable character, a name unsullied, even by the breath of malice, [he]
                            possesses at this moment, as vigorous a mental and physical constitution as any man in the
                            bounds of the State. His habits of business … are of the most indefatigable and
                            unwearied description. The decisions of the bench of which he was a prominent member, stand
                            among lawyers in the first class of this country. In his private life, those who have most
                            access to him, know him to be one of the most studious men in the West, constantly occupying
                            every leisure moment in the study of his profession, with no other avocation, to withdraw
                            him from it…. Judge Sullivan's fair fame is a portion of the heritage of
                            the State….29
                  
                    
            
            While tempers were at a white heat over the affair, it is interesting to note what the two principal
                    figures involved in this vortex of political maneuvering thought of it. Judge Sullivan's
                    emotions are revealed in a confidential letter to his son in which he mentioned that there was a
                    great deal of anxiety at the capital concerning the course the Governor would take in regard to
                    Dewey and himself. He then added: 
                        Nothing has yet transpired from which I can judge what his course fill be. One thing is
                            certain, however, and that is, I am in the hands of a kind 
                                Providence
                             who will I believe take care of me; and whether I am on the Bench or at the
                            Bar, my bread and my water will be sure. I therefore give myself no distressing thoughts
                            about it.30
                  
                     A year later, in mentioning the subject to his son, he remarked, "I have not yet
                    learned what is to be my fate, as it regards the Judgeship. I have reason to apprehend that the
                    Governor will not nominate me, and what will follow, I don't know. I however feel very easy
                    about it."31
            
            Judge Dewey, in a letter published in the Republican Banner of February 10, 1847,
                    charged Governor Whitcomb with bad faith, declaring that the latter had promised, in the presence of
                    witnesses, to renominate him, but had forgotten about this pledge when it became convenient to do
                    so.
            Despite all the outcry, however, Perkins finally secured the place, both Sullivan and Dewey being
                    forced out. An 
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., July 22, 1846.
                  
                     30 Judge Sullivan to his son, Algernon S. Sullivan, December 18, 1844.
                  
                     31
                            Idem to idem, December 12, 1845.
               
                     impartial investigator is forced to the conclusion that the
                    weight of evidence reveals Governor Whitcomb was not only acting against the bests interest of the
                    state, but was also playing politics for his own personal advancement. Jesse D. Bright, of 
                        Madison
                    , however, was elected to the 
                        United States
                     Senate, so Whitcomb did not secure the coveted place at this time, although he was
                    later successful.
            During his term of office, Judge Sullivan wrote nearly three hundred decisions of the court; in the
                    November term, 1838, he wrote the fewest, ten; while in the November term, 1843, he wrote the
                    largest number, twenty-seven. Although the court reporter noted that Sullivan "in
                    consequence of indisposition" was absent until the tenth day of the November term, 1845,
                    which was his last, he still managed to write eighteen of the court's decisions. The
                    Governor's statement that Sullivan was too old for his position was ridiculous, for when he
                    retired from the court he was but fifty-two. His judicial opinions revealed a vast fund of legal
                    learning and research, and were, in general, well written, brief, to the point, and well documented
                    with authorities. Of them a contemporary, William W. Woollen, wrote: 
                        It was while a judge of this court that he earned his fame … [as] he graced and
                            honored the place…. Sullivan was the ablest writer [of 
                                Blackford
                            , Dewey, and he] …. His opinions … are models of legal
                            composition…. [The] grace and perspicuity in his style [are] but seldom found and
                            had he chosen to be a writer of legal books he would unquestionably have won a reputation
                            even exceeding that which he earned upon the bench.32
                  
                    
            
            This learned judge was also a remarkable father and, while concerned with the grave problem of
                    writing legal decisions, found time to advise and direct his son, Algernon, who was attending 
                        Hanover
                     College. In his letters he told his son how to conduct his daily life, how to conserve
                    his health, even how to write letters, and, in them, he revealed his own character in all its
                        fineness.33 In one he discussed the good effects of fasting, saying that
                    good men in all ages had fasted frequently. His deep religious convictions and his fervent
                    patriotism were repeatedly expressed. Although 
                  
                     32 Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches,
                            368.
                  
                     33 Selections from a number of Judge Sullivan's letters are
                            printed, post.
                  
               
                     his beliefs were strong, he sometimes revealed a calmness and
                    tolerance that do not always accompany such strong convictions. When their minister lectured on the
                    points of difference between "the Romish & Protestant churches" he
                    observed that some thought that the minister was too severe."
            In some agitation, the judge wrote to his son Algernon, on December 2, 1844, that the Reverend
                    Erasmus D. McMaster, who was president of the college at 
                        Madison
                    , had been chosen president of Miami University, at 
                        Oxford
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and was determined to accept the position. If this change were made, he thought it
                    would be a death blow to their own college, and that his son might as well follow the educator to 
                        Oxford
                    . A week later he informed his son that he had received a letter from Doctor McMaster,
                    resigning his place and asking about the propriety of leaving by February. The educator left for
                    Miami University, and Algernon followed him there for his senior year. The same year that the Judge
                    lost his office, the son was graduated. He then took up the study of law and later moved to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to practice. After a few years he went to 
                        New York
                     City and continued in his profession.
            Another son, Thomas, was a member of the Assembly when the fate of the judgeship was a much discussed
                    subject. Of his reaction to the controversy, the Judge wrote: 
                        Tommy sat with me an hour or two on Saturday night. He seems already to be disgusted with
                            public life. He says he has seen more corruption & dishonesty during the last 10
                            days of his life than he ever saw before. I think he has probably spoken the truth. There
                            seems to be great doubt who will be elected Senator. My fate is also uncertain….
                                35
                  
                    
            
            The strife engendered by the dispute over the Supreme Court, however, soon vanished into
                    insignificance. It was overshadowed by the greater conflict in which the entire country soon found
                    itself as a result of the declaration of war against Mexico on May 13, 1846. The Whigs charged that
                    the Democrats brought on the war simply to add more territory to the nation and to aid the system of
                    slavery. 
                  
                     34 Judge Sullivan to Algernon S. Sullivan, May 9, 1845.
                  
                     35
                            Idem to idem, December 9, 1844. (Thomas married Laetitia
                            Smith, the daughter of Senator Oliver H. Smith, on November 16, 1842).
               
                     Thomas Sullivan immediately raised a company of men from 
                        Madison
                     and vicinity of which he was made captain. He was soon in Mexico, where he, like a
                    large number of American soldiers, caught a fever which almost, incapacitated him.311
            
            Judge Sullivan, in common with most Whigs, opposed this war from beginning to end. Under the
                    signature of "Col. Pluck," he wrote a series of articles for the Republican Banner concerning it. Previous to the declaration of war, in campaign speeches
                    at 
                        Madison
                    , Senator Jesse D. Bright and Congressman Thomas J. Henley had ridiculed the idea of war
                    with Mexico, then presaged by the administration's policy, and had declared that if it did
                    come they would clean out Mexico with a regiment of women, armed with broomsticks. These extravagant
                    promises became the target of Sullivan's pen, dipped in rich satire.
            In a letter to the Banner, printed on May 27, 1846, Sullivan praised the editor for
                    being one of the wise men who had lifted up their voices "against the unholy measures which
                    have brought about the present state of affairs." He stated that it was a war which would
                    have been avoided if the administration had been in competent hands. He asked if the
                    "democratic leaders who have been foisted into office by the cry of 
                        Texas
                     glory" would now share in the dangers, if they were as willing to shed their
                    blood in defense of 
                        Texas
                     as they had been to spend their breath. Throughout this letter he recurred constantly
                    to the warning of the Whigs on the consequences of the annexation of 
                        Texas
                    , and like a refrain ran the words, "Where are Thos. J. Henley, and James G.
                    Reed, Jesse D. Bright, and Michael G. Bright?" Following this cry, he said: 
                        Are you ready to meet the foe; or would you prefer to keep away from danger, and pass paper
                            resolutions, and make stump speeches abusive of the Whigs. … [I] believe that you
                            do not like the smell of Gunpowder…. The "Halls of the
                            Montezumas" are to be trodden by our victorious soldiery. Do not your gallant souls
                            burn within you to be of the number who shall revel there? Or would you rather stay out of
                            "harm's way," and tread the Halls of the American Capitol?
                            …
                        Michael Graham Bright, ah! he will not lag behind. He has held a lucrative office for the
                            last four years, obtained by party servitude, and has become very rich, his friends say. It
                            is even said that he is 
                        
                           36
                                    Republican Banner, January 13, 1847.
                     
                            
                            the owner of 10,000 acres of land on the line of the Canal intended to be
                                constructed from 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , to 
                                    Evansville
                                , according to the provisions of the "
                                    Butler
                                 Bill." It is also said that he gave only $10,000
                            for the land, cash up. Having made his fortune out of the office alluded to, does not
                            gratitude to his country and party call loudly for his services in the field, and is he not
                            too magnanimous to refuse….
                    
            
            "Col. Pluck's" next letter, of June 3, 1846, was replete with skillful and
                    humorous thrusts that must have caused the victims to grow hot with wrath. He asked these
                    "Democratic leaders" to take a part in the fighting, saying: "I would not
                    give a copper for their speeches and paper resolutions; we can do without them. We want no flashes
                    of wit, nor paper wads. It is the flash of gunpowder, and the whiz of the leaden ball that are
                    needed at this time." He spoke of Henry Clay's "Raleigh Letter,"
                    and noted that Henley had called Clay a fool; that the former had laughed "as men without
                    brains often do, at the language of wisdom and experience as uttered by Mr.
                    Clay…." Through a long-paragraph he spoke of the "brave and chivalric
                    Henley, the Sagacious Henley, the sapient Henley," and finally ended with this gibe: 
                        "Tis true we should lose a great deal of wisdom and eloquence in Congress if these
                            "stars" should fly off to the South; but still, Congress could, perhaps,
                            get along without them, and I am not sure the army can. And besides, they agreed to take
                            "the contract," and as men of honor? (save the mark,) they should remember
                            the promise and perform it. I long to see Thomas Jefferson Henley and Jesse David Bright
                            mounted on their charges, and bearing down on the Mexicans, with their arms aloft extended,
                            like Eternal Jove, "when Guilt brings down his thunder." What havoc, and
                            carnage, and blood, and glory.
                    
            
            A letter of June 17, 1846, continued along the same lines: 
                  
                     
                        My soul is on fire. I long for a revel in the "Halls of the
                                    Montezumas." What shall I do, Mr. Editor,—what shall I do?
                                    … The wreath that would adorn my victorious brow, is reserved for those
                                    pinks of chivalry, Henley and Bright! ! I have heard it—whispered— that neither of them was very fond of going where
                                    there was danger,— but that can't be true, … It is a
                                    slander on Thomas Jefferson Henley and Jesse David Bright.—Shame on Whig
                                    or Democrat that would make such an insinuation. I am looking out, every day, to see
                                    Henley and Bright pass by our city, puffing like two steamboats running a
                                    race—swearing, that if they can only find out where Mexico is, they will
                                    do the job…. They are a little too slow.
                                     … Mr. Baker, a Whig member from 
                                        Illinois
                                    , has gone home to volunteer … and Mr. Yell … has
                                    started off yelling, for Mexico…. Bright's bellowing would have been as terrific as Yell's yelling, and both united, what yelling, and groaning, and
                                    bellowing, there would have been in Mexico…
                     
                  
               
            
            In his next article he answered "Civis" who had written in the preceding issue of
                    the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier that it would never do for men occupying high stations to desert their
                    posts. According to this man, Sullivan said, the legislators were to plan, that is, do the wind
                    work, while the people should carry out the plan, that is, do the fighting.37
                    Finally, on July 8, 1846, "Col. Pluck" declared that he was off to Mexico, to see
                    how the war was being conducted, and to perform "deeds of noble daring." Stating
                    that his soul despised such "things" as Henley, Bright, and Whitcomb, he
                    proclaimed that "Governor Whitcomb, the man without a soul" could not hold him
                    back and keep him boiling in the sun until he decided whether he would accept money from banks to
                    clothe and feed him. Then, late in September, there appeared another letter from the sarcastic
                    Colonel, pretending to come from Mexico, at Taylor's camp. He avowed that his thirst for
                    glory continued unabated, but that he did not think there was any particular glory to be gained in
                    fighting for 
                        Texas
                     and slavery, and 
                        California
                     and slavery; that although there were opportunities for individual valor, most of the
                    soldiers felt they could gain as much glory by fighting an army of women. To his mind it was
                    shameful that a member of Congress from a free state would be willing to annex 
                        Texas
                     for the sake of extending slavery. He noted with indignation that the troops from 
                        Louisiana
                     had gone home while those from free states were left to defend "
                        Texas
                     and slavery."38
            
            In this last article, he wrote of the silence of Bright in Congress, concluding that since
                    "at home he was such a prodigious fellow to blow he must be reserving his wind for
                    Mexico." It is true that this Indiana Senator was somewhat silent at this session, but he
                    surely would have done considerable "bellowing" had he known that Sullivan was the
                        
                  
                     37
                            Weekly Courier (
                                Madison
                            , Indiana), June 20, 1846; Republican Banner, June 24, 1846.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., September 16, 1846. These statements, of course, are typical of
                            Whig propaganda of that time.
               
                     author of these articles. Although in opposite political camps
                    the two were warm friends. Sullivan was careful, therefore, to hide his identity, even, it is said,
                    going so far as to have the articles copied by another before sending them to the office of the
                    paper. Soon after the above mentioned letter appeared, the editor of the Banner
                    promised that another would soon arrive from Mexico, but that of September 16 seems to have been the
                    last. Of course, Sullivan was not in Mexico. He obtained his information about the campaign from the
                    newspapers or from the letters of his son, Captain Thomas L. Sullivan.
            Soon the war came to an end, Thomas returned home, as did several other soldiers who felt convinced
                    that their brave deeds fitted them for the presidency, and the country settled down to an uneasy,
                    fitful peace. Thomas soon moved to 
                        Memphis
                    ; Algernon, having passed his bar examination, went to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to practice; Jerry, a third son, joined the navy, and by 1850 had "a full
                    midshipman warrant on the sloop-of-war, 
                        Warren
                    ." The Judge still had over twenty years of life remaining, and although they
                    were spent in private life, each year was a busy one, fully occupied with business at the bar, while
                    during campaign years he actively entered the lists.
            When Algernon went to 
                        Cincinnati
                     his father gave him a letter to Judge John McLean, whom Sullivan informed his son was
                    "a good Judge & an excellent man, & loves to be thought
                        so."
               39 Judge Sullivan had little time for leisure as he was
                    almost constantly engaged in grave cases, some of which were important in the legal history of the
                    state. He, Samuel Judah, and Abner Ellis were retained by the 
                        Wabash
                     Navigation Company in a "very heavy case," for which Sullivan
                    received a fee of $250, while counsels for the plaintiff were the celebrated Joseph G.
                    Marshall and Randall Crawford. This was the historical Culbertson case, which went from court to
                        court.40 He was one of the attorneys in the important McNaughton and Cassily
                    case, as well as in the Godman Patent case. His effort in the last named case, 
                  
                     39 Sullivan to his son, Algernon S. Sullivan, April 27, 1849.
                  
                     40 Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and
                            Sketches (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1858), 231–34.
               
                     he told his son, was applauded by competent judges.
                    "That made me vain," he exclaimed. Although he did not succeed in winning his
                    point entirely, still he claimed to be "not much dissatisfied."
            Politics also kept him engaged to a limited extent. In 1850, delegates to the Constitutional
                    Convention were elected. Sullivan attempted to block the nomination of a Whig candidate, William M.
                    Dunn, a personal friend, because he was the son-in-law of J. F. D. Lanier, who had vast interests in
                    state banking and railroads. The Judge feared that the time would arrive when corporations would
                    dictate legislation, and so wished to see a delegate chosen from 
                        Jefferson County
                     not under such influence. His desire was frustrated for Dunn was sent to the
                    convention. After the adoption of the constitution he wrote an article, supposed to be the
                    reflections of a man in a barber chair, ridiculing the provision which prohibited the immigration of
                    Negroes and their employment in the state.
            President Zachary Taylor's death led Judge Sullivan to remark to Algernon: "God
                    seems to have a controversy with our nation. We cannot foresee the consequences of Gen.
                    Taylor's death. At present it looks like a chastisement, but it may be that He who sent it,
                    designs it for good."41 When General Scott visited 
                        Madison
                    , Sullivan made the speech of welcome. He thought the reception passed off very well,
                    and that Scott made friends by his visit. Immense numbers from the country were present. He reported
                    that the General was highly pleased, but Sullivan thought his own reception speech was badly
                    reported by the papers, although he made it "without much
                        embarrassment."42 That same month his son, Thomas, wrote his father
                    that 
                        Tennessee
                     was bound to go for Scott. The Judge felt, however, that there was no hope of doing
                    anything for their candidate in Indiana. He thought that if 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     went for him there would be hope of his election.43 But this was
                    not to be.
            The next presidential election deeply stirred Sullivan. A rumor that his son Algernon intended to
                    support the Democratic 
                  
                     41 Sullivan to his son, Algernon S. Sullivan, July 12, 1850.
                  
                     42
                            Idem to idem, October 5, 1852.
                  
                     43
                            Idem to idem, October 30, 1852.
               
                     candidate caused him some dismay. "I heard to my utter
                    astonishment & dismay a few days ago," he wrote, "that you intended voting
                    for Buchanan! Certainly it cannot be so. If you are so conscientious about [not] voting for Fremont,
                    why not vote for Fillmore?"44
            
            Naturally the Judge found time for relaxation and vacations. The entire family attended Jenny
                    Lind's concert at 
                        Madison
                    , and of this he wrote: "The girls were charmed, but your Ma & myself
                    thought we had heard better singing, & had seen prettier girls."45 During the summer of 1852 and again the following year, he and Mrs. Sullivan took a trip to
                    New England. At 
                        Hartford
                     he met the Speaker of the Canadian Parliament, Sandfield MacDonald. Hearing that
                    Algernon was to go to 
                        London
                    , the Canadian informed the Judge that the son must stay with him and that his visit
                    would be made pleasant. In the meantime Jerry was still in the navy and his father wrote to him:
                        
                        I often sit down & indulge in fancying that you may, at some day, be a distinguished
                            man in the navy, … and I sometimes fancy that you may be in a situation
                            … to do good by aiding missionaries & other good people in Foreign lands,
                            in spreading the Gospel, and extending the boundaries of civil & religious
                                liberty.46
                  
                     The Judge had his office now at the corner of Second and West streets, and he began to feel
                    that time was taking its toll, for although he could labor from morning till night he noted that he
                    was becoming more cautious in everything. Too, he found in 1857, that his earnings would amount to
                    but $1500.00 while a few years before they had reached from $2200 to
                    $2400.
            The years following the close of the Mexican War witnessed much political turmoil, bloodshed, and
                    outbursts of fanaticism, until finally the dam of pent-up hatreds burst and in the ensuing
                    convulsion that shook the nation few homes escaped unscathed. The Judge was clearly in the
                    anti-slavery camp; and as the Whig party disintegrated, he became a firm Republican. When the war
                    broke out his son, Jeremiah, 
                  
                     44
                            Idem to idem, July 9, 1856.
                  
                     45
                            Idem to idem, April 17, 1851.
                  
                     46 Judge Sullivan to Jerry C. Sullivan, January 3, 1849. A longer
                            portion of this letter is given post, 263–64.
               
                     raised a company, of which he was made Colonel. After
                    meritorious action he became a Brigadier, was mentioned in several reports for distinguished
                    bravery, and after serving as Inspector-General of the District of 
                        Tennessee
                     finally became Chief of Grant's staff.
            In the meantime, Algernon had become a successful attorney in 
                        New York
                     City. At the outbreak of the war, Seward had declared that the Confederate privateers
                    would be treated as pirates, and notified all lawyers not to assume their defense. Algernon, who had
                    a certain sympathy for the South, as he had married a Virginian, Mary Hammond, defied the Secretary
                    of State and took the case of the "Piratemen" in 
                        New York
                    . When he sent to 
                        Richmond
                     for copies of the commissions under which the men had sailed, he was arrested by
                    Seward, accused of treason, and sent to Fort 
                        Lafayette
                    . Seward claimed to have on file treasonable letters to southern men.47 Algernon's father believed this work legitimate and soon through powerful
                    influence secured his release, so his son was not brought to trial. The Judge continued to caution
                    Algernon and his wife to be loyal and very cautious in their statements and conduct, to give up any
                    sympathy with the South, and to avoid anything that might excite Secretary Seward.48 He was also worried about his son Thomas in 
                        Tennessee
                     whom he considered a strong Union man and therefore likely to get into trouble there.
                    He offered to help hire a substitute for Algernon in 1863, because he did not think that this son
                    could stand a campaign in the field.
            The letters which the elder Sullivan wrote during the Civil War period give some information about
                    conditions and sentiment in Indiana. Before the outbreak of hostilities, he noted that the farmers
                    in many parts of 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , and Indiana were withdrawing their money from the banks and converting it into gold
                    and silver; that southern money 
                  
                     47 A search in the Division of the State Department and the Division
                            of the War Department of the National Archives has not uncovered these letters.
                  
                     48 Judge Sullivan to Mary M. Sullivan (wife of Algernon), September
                            14, 1861, September 16, 1861, and October 23, 1861; and Judge Sullivan to Algernon S.
                            Sullivan, November 4, 1861, December 9, 1861, and December 19, 1861. Portions of these
                            letters are printed, post, 268–71.
               
                     was leaving this part of the country; and that the bank men
                    were worried. Although there were quite a number who sympathized with the South, the firing on Fort
                    Sumter caused a strong outburst of feeling. He thought that four-fifths of the people would fight
                    the South as they would an army of foreign invaders. Perhaps in this he permitted his own sentiments
                    to influence his judgement. "We have petted the South too much. We have even licked the
                    boots of her great men." But now, "If ever a set of men deserved the character of
                    thieves, murderers, and traitors, the leaders of this rebellion deserve it, and deserve the doom of
                    thieves and traitors." He asserted that the Northwest would never consent to the mouth of
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                     being within foreign and hostile boundaries. After the battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     the river towns of Indiana were filled with wounded soldiers and the women of 
                        Madison
                     met at the Sullivan home to prepare clothes and supplies. When the raids from 
                        Kentucky
                     threatened southern Indiana the men began to drill and make preparations for the
                    defense of their homes. Sullivan thought that General John H. Morgan and his raiders might have been
                    destroyed had they come to 
                        Madison
                    , but he feared that the town might also have suffered that fate. When riots broke out
                    in 
                        New York
                     over the draft he wrote that the law must be enforced if necessary with cannon and
                        bayonets.49
            
            Judge Sullivan survived the end of the war five years; he died unexpectedly at six o'clock
                    on the morning of December 6, 1870. On that very day he was to have taken office as judge of the new
                    criminal court of 
                        Jefferson County
                     which had been created the year before. He worked to the end. His fellow-Whig, Senator
                    O. H. Smith, stated that he stood high at the bar, being a fine lawyer of many years'
                    experience in one of the first schools of practice in the state. "The purity of his life
                    and character," continued Smith, "gave him a reputation when he took his seat upon
                    the bench, that stamped his opinions with high authority."50 Although
                    Judge Sullivan did not rise high in the political firmament, 
                  
                     49 Portions of the letters referred to in this paragraph are printed
                                post, 273.
                  
                     50 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches,
                        145.
               
                     his voice had great weight with his party and with the public,
                    particularly with the leaders of the Whig and Republican parties in the state. His best services to
                    his fellow Hoosiers were rendered in their highest court, and he will be remembered as a strong and
                    able lawyer, and as one of the great justices of Indiana.
         
         
         
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                     Iron and Steel: A Declining Industry
            ALDEN CUTSHALL
            
            The 
                        Wabash
                     Valley is interesting not only for its picturesque and colorful history, but also
                    because of its present-day economic activity. It is a changing region; an area that possesses a
                    mingling of the old and the new—quaint old homes and modern residential structures,
                    relict industries and modern manufacturing establishments. It has an economic structure that is a
                    combination of farms, mines, and factories. 
                        Terre Haute
                    , the largest city on the river, and one that boasts of considerable industrial and
                    commercial activity, is frequently termed "The Capital of the 
                        Wabash
                     Empire" or, more boldly, "The Crossroads of the Nation."
            Southwestern Indiana and southeastern 
                        Illinois
                     are predominantly mixed farming regions, but are severed by the winding fertile flood
                    plain of the lower 
                        Wabash
                     River which, by way of contrast, is characterized principally by cash-grain farms.
                    Besides the agricultural attachments, the area possesses a variety of cheap fuel. For example, coal,
                    petroleum, and natural gas are available within a few miles of the river. At least partially as a
                    result of these endowments, the cities of the lower 
                        Wabash
                     Valley contain numerous, diversified manufacturing establishments, of which the iron
                    industry is one of the oldest.
            Prior to the Civil War there was very little semblance of an iron industry in 
                        Terre Haute
                     or, for that matter, in the states of 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana. The 
                        Wabash
                     Valley lacked adequate resources and difficulties were encountered in transporting them
                    from other localities, all of which tended to retard the development of local industry. At this
                    early date, the oil and gas possibilities were unknown and the coal deposits, although known, were
                    not yet of economic importance. 
                        Evansville
                     and New 
                        Albany
                     were the nearest cities to manufacture machinery, but, for the most part, eastern
                    manufacturers continued to supply the needs of the area as the West lacked the necessary labor and
                    capital to establish a machinery plant.1
            
            The Census of 1840 mentioned five iron furnaces in 
                  
                     1 Isaac Lippincott, Manfacturing in the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Valley to the Year 1860, (
                                New York
                            , 1917), 156.
               
                     southwestern Indiana and southeastern 
                        Illinois
                    , three of these being within a relatively few miles of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , in Vigo, Parke, and 
                        Vermillion
                     counties respectively. This census report, however, "sometimes confounds blast
                    furnaces with foundries," so full reliance cannot be placed upon its statements.2
            
            In 1859 the state of Indiana had five charcoal iron furnaces, with Green and Vigo counties having one
                    each. The former used a bog ore and the latter, in operation for almost ten years, used a local
                    brown hemitite and some 
                        Missouri
                     ores. This initial activity, however, ceased about 1860 and the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley was left without a representative in the iron industry. In fact, it appears that
                    no furnaces were in operation in the entire state of Indiana from 1860 to 1867.3
            
            Shortly after the Civil War, the discovery that the famous 
                        Brazil
                     block coal was suitable for the industry encouraged local capitalists to erect several
                    blast furnaces in the vicinity of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . These used mainly 
                        Missouri
                     and Lake Superior (
                        Michigan
                    ) ores although ores from some local deposits were employed experimentally.4 Eight furnaces, five in 
                        Clay
                     and three in 
                        Vigo County
                    , were built between 1867 and 1872.
            A contemporary described the developments in 
                        Clay
                     County in enthusiastic terms.
            
                    There are five blast furnaces in 
                            Clay
                         County, that are making pig iron with raw block coal…. The total working
                        capital employed at these furnaces is about six hundred thousand dollars. Combined, they consume
                        daily: 300 tons of "Block" coal, 150 tons of Lake Superior and Iron Mountain
                        ore, 50 tons of limestone for flux.
                    The daily make of iron is about 110 tons, worth on an average, at the furnaces, forty dollars per
                        ton…. The total value of each day's run of iron is therefore, four thousand
                        four hundred dollars, or about one and a half millions [sic] dollars per
                        annum, after allowing a large margin for mishaps and loss from accidents. The number of men
                        employed at these furnaces, not including coal miners, is about two hundred.
                    All the furnace companies own collieries, and give employment 
                     
                        2 James M. Swank, History of the Manufacture of Iron
                                    in All Ages (
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1892), 317; Sixth Census, 1840, Compendium, 286, 298.
                     
                        3 Swank, Iron in All Ages, 315
                     
                        4
                                Ibid., 316; Victor S. Clark, History of Manufactures in
                                    the 
                                        United States
                                    , 1607–1928 (3 vols., 
                                    New York
                                , 1929), 66.
                  
                         to a great many more men who are engaged in mining
                        "block" coal for the furnaces, and also for market…. 5
               
                
            The 
                        Brazil
                     furnace was built in 1867 at a cost of $150,000. It was reported as
                    consuming daily seventy tons of coal, forty-five tons of ore, and yielding twenty-eight tons of pig
                    iron. Including miners it employed 150 men. The 
                        Lafayette
                     furnace, which was "blowed-in" May 20, 1869, was situated just north
                    of 
                        Brazil
                    . It cost $70,000, consumed forty-five tons of coal, thirty-seven tons of
                    ore, and ten tons of limestone per day. Its daily output was eighteen tons of pig iron. Thirty men
                    were employed at the furnace. At Knightsville, a short distance east of 
                        Brazil
                    , were two furnaces, which were built in 1867 and 1868. They consumed daily sixty tons
                    of ore, one hundred tons of coal, and twentyfour tons of limestone, and produced forty-five tons of
                    pig iron. A smaller furnace was owned by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Rolling Company and was situated near Harmony. Its daily consumption was said to be
                    twenty-five tons of ore, forty tons of coal, ten tons of limestone, while its yield was fifteen tons
                    of pig iron. Its product was used by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Rolling Mill.6
            
            The establishments of 
                        Vigo County
                     were located in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The foundry, which contained two cupolas, employed forty-four men, and produced
                    engines and machinery. The Vigo Iron Company was incorporated in 1869. It was engaged in the
                    production of pig iron, mill iron, and Bessemer steel, producing about 15,000 tons annually. Its
                    labor force was composed of fifty men. The 
                        Wabash
                     Iron Company, which was incorporated in 1873, employed about 200 men and produced about
                    1,000 tons of finished iron per month.7
            
            Because of this rapid beginning, 
                        Terre Haute
                     was envisioned as a second 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . A publication of 1870 stated that there "is no point west of the
                        Allegheny Mountains
                    
                  
                     5 E. T. Cox, First Annual Report of the Geological Survey
                                of Indiana, 1869 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1869), 72.
                  
                     6 Cox, First Annual Report, 72–80. A
                            picture of the 
                                Brazil
                             furnace forms the frontispiece of this volume. A picture of the 
                                Lafayette
                             furnace may be found in E. T. Cox, Second Annual Report of the
                                Geological Survey of Indiana, 1870 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1871), opposite p. 163.
                  
                     7 H. W. Beckwith, History of Vigo and Parke Counties
                            [Indiana] (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 144 (the history of 
                                Vigo County
                             to which reference is made is paged separately). A picture of the Vigo furnace
                            may be found in Cox, Second Annual Report, opposite p. 124.
               
                     which combines so many advantages for the manufacture of iron
                    as does 
                        Terre Haute
                    ."8 It mentioned the central position of the city, the
                    presence of large and inexhaustible quantities of block coal, a plentiful supply of limestone,
                    direct communication with the iron regions of Lake Superior and 
                        Missouri
                    , and direct communication with the leading commercial centers of the West and South.
            Unfortunately this anticipation failed to develop. The local ores were unsuitable and inadequate and,
                    despite excellent rail communications with the Lake Superior fields, cheaper water transportation
                    favored the movement of the ore toward the lake ports rather than into the interior. The third ore
                    supply, the Pilot Knob and Iron Mountain deposits, was considered exhausted before the end of the
                    century." As a result of this combination of circumstances no furnaces were constructed in
                    Indiana between 1872 and the development in 
                        Lake County
                     after 1900, and the original eight were one by one torn down or abandoned. Three were
                    still in operation in 1883, two in 1890, but not one was in use by the end of the century.10 Since that time, pig iron used in the manufacture of iron products in 
                        Terre Haute
                     has been supplied principally by the 
                        Chicago
                     District, while scrap iron came from nearby stations as well as 
                        Chicago
                    .
            The early rolling mills of Indiana were less concentrated in one area and their decline has been more
                    gradual. In 1883 the state had eight mills, two of which were in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and one in 
                        Brazil
                    , while the remainder were located in 
                        Albany
                    , 
                        Aurora
                    , 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and 
                        Greencastle
                    .11 Of the three mills in the 
                        Terre Haute
                     District, one was a nail plant established in 1868, and another, built in 1874,
                    specialized in light "T" rails. The third began operation in 1882 and manufactured
                    a variety of products: rails, axles, bar and bridge iron, and general forgings.12 In 1880 the iron and steel 
                  
                     8
                            Advantages of 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 as a Point for the Manufacture of Iron (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1870), 7.
                  
                     9 American Iron and Steel Association, Bulletin,
                            XXVI (1890), 188; XLVI, December 1, 1912, p. 111.
                  
                     10 American Iron and Steel Association, Directory of Iron
                                and Steel Works of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1884 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884), 62; ibid., 1901 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1901), 276.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 1884, pp. 144–45.
                  
                     12 American Iron and Steel Association, Bulletins,
                                passim.
                  
               
                     industry of 
                        Terre Haute
                     employed 545 men and the products were valued at more than a million dollars.13
            
            By 1901, these three independent plants had become the property of the Republic Iron and Steel
                    Company, their product had been changed to bars, bands, and horseshoe bars, and their capacity
                    increased considerably. This increase, together with the construction of a larger plant, the
                    Highland Iron and Steel Company, at 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1901, gave the district an annual capacity of over 100,000 tons.14 The Republic Iron and Steel plants operated only a short time, all three being dismantled
                    by 1908,15 leaving "Highland" as the only 
                        Terre Haute
                     plant. It was not the only mill in the Valley, however, for the National Rolling Mill
                    was removed from 
                        Hartford
                     City to 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1904, and the Linton Rolling Mill Company was put in operation three years later.16 By this time Indiana had twenty-six mills scattered over the state with the
                    greatest concentration on Lake 
                        Michigan
                     where a number of coke furnaces were then in operation or under construction.
            During the period from 1915 to 1920, iron and steel and the allied industries of 
                        Terre Haute
                     were probably at their height. The Eagle Iron Works and the Braden Manufacturing
                    Company were the two major industries of the city in 1915, with the latter marketing its products
                    from 
                        Michigan
                     to 
                        Florida
                     and as far west as 
                        Oklahoma
                    .17 The Hoosier Rolling Mill and its subsidiary, the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Auto Springs Company were embarking on a program of expansion and the completed
                    establishment was to be one of the most important plants in the Middle West,18
                    although it is doubtful if these glowing civic expectations were shared by those who knew the iron
                    and steel industry. It was during this period of growth that the Columbian Enameling and Stamping
                    Company located in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and there 
                  
                     13
                            Tenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1880, II, Manufactures, 440.
                  
                     14 American Iron and Steel Association, Directory,
                            1901, pp. 277–80.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 1908 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1908), 417, 418.
                  
                     16
                     Ibid., 379, 380.
                  
                     17 J. A. Reid (Publisher), 
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Today (
                                Terre Haute
                            , Ind., 1920), 60, 71.
                  
                     18
                            The Book of 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , I, December, 1920, p. 9.
               
                     were a number of machine shops in operation in the other cities
                    of the Valley.
            Today the iron and steel industry of 
                        Terre Haute
                     is definitely an out-moded, dwindling industry. In terms of modern economics it is a
                    misplaced industry and exists in its present form largely because of an early start and local
                    initiative. As the present equipment becomes obsolete, it is not being replaced. The Hoosier Rolling
                    Mills ceased production before 1930, leaving Highland Iron and Steel, one of the twelve divisions of
                    the American Chain and Cable Company, as the only rolling mill that remained in operation over a
                    period of time. This plant discontinued operations early in 1940, its employment having declined
                    over 50 per cent within the last two decades. The plant and equipment, however, were purchased by a
                    hastily-formed, local corporation, Highland Iron and Steel, Incorporated, and by June it was
                    operating at almost three-fourths the capacity of its predecessor. The principal products of the new
                    company is railroad "frog iron filler" and about thirty railroad supply houses
                    receive their stock from this plant.
            Many of the principal concerns have been foundries or manufacturers of mining machinery or
                    transportation equipment and they have become consistently less important as mining decreased within
                    the immediate area. Of the four major foundries in 1920, two, the American Car and Foundry Plant and
                    the Eagle Iron Works, have been discontinued, and only one of the producers of malleable iron
                    castings at that time remains in operation. The machinery interests, however, are not the only
                    establishments that have declined, for the Columbian Enameling and Stamping Company has about
                    one-half the twelve hundred employees that were on its payroll twenty years ago. This industry has
                    suffered from the cheapness and popularity of aluminum, especially for kitchen ware. The proof that
                    this trend still continues is evidenced by the recent decision of the American Chain and Cable
                    Company to discontinue their Highland plant and by the fact that the employment of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Malleable and Manufacturing Company has decreased twenty per cent within the last five
                    years.
            Outside of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , small foundries are the only  common form of metal
                    workings, the major exception being the 
                        Vincennes
                     Steel Corporation, making structural steel bridges, which is one of the oldest plants
                    in the Valley. In addition, there are a few miscellaneous establishments using some form of steel as
                    a fabricating material. Telephones are manufactured at 
                        Lawrenceville
                    , metal shelving and horizontal drills at 
                        Paris
                    , oil well supplies in Robinson, television equipment at 
                        Mt. Carmel
                    , and wardrobe hinges and similar articles in 
                        Washington
                    . Despite these major declines and failures, the number of metal processing plants
                    remains about the same. Metal containers (American Can Company), bronze and brass castings, scales,
                    and a greater variety of machinery and foundry products have replaced the lost concerns, but these
                    establishments may be classified as secondary metal industries and are generally smaller and less
                    important than the plants that preceded them. The iron and steel industry is rapidly assuming a
                    position of secondary importance and other forms of manufacture are becoming relatively more
                    significant in 
                        Terre Haute
                    's current industrial economy.
            In summary, the metal industries of the lower 
                        Wabash
                     Valley have experienced (1) an early development which was based on locational factors
                    that are no longer operative, (2) a lack of industrial linkage between the earlier iron and steel
                    products and the later types of manufacturing, and (3) a decline which is partially traceable to the
                    marginal nature of this group of manufactures. The development of the nineteenth century was
                    dependent upon a local coal supply, the 
                        Brazil
                     block coal, which is no longer associated with the industry. It used many nearby and 
                        Missouri
                     ores which are no longer available. The local market (blacksmith shops, the makers of
                    agricultural implements, wagon and carriage builders, and the early foundries and railroad shops)
                    used large quantities of iron and steel which did not necessarily need to be of the standardized
                    quality that is demanded by modern industry. The metal industries are of a marginal character in
                    both their geographic and economic aspects. In the first case the location is not on the direct
                    route which connects the Appalachian coking coal and Mesabi iron ore and the area has access to no
                    other raw metals within a reasonable  distance. The market is
                    limited in a similar manner for the Valley is on the edge of the manufacturing belt of America.
                    Competition of the more firmly entrenched competitors has tended to retard the development in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and other 
                        Wabash
                     cities which can offer no services that cannot be obtained elsewhere just as
                easily.
         
         
         
            
               
                        Madison
                     in My Boyhood Days
            ELLIOTT R. TIBBETS
            
            
               
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, during my youthful years, was a busy river town with many freight and
                    passenger boats plying up and down the 
                        Ohio
                     River from the great steel city of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to the famous southern terminus of 
                        New Orleans
                    . Such steamboats as the "New South," "John K.
                    Speed," "Guiding Star," and many others did a flourishing business,
                    stopping at all of the larger towns. I have seen the "New South" on its northern
                    trip land at 
                        Madison
                     laden with tobacco, cotton, sugar cane, 
                        New Orleans
                     molasses, tropical fruits, nuts, rice, 
                        New Orleans
                     sugar, cocoanuts, and many other products too numerous to mention. These boats would,
                    often be so burdened with freight that the gunwale would not be far out of the water.
            It was a common occurrence for 
                        Madison
                     people to take a boat for 
                        Louisville
                     on a Saturday morning to shop in the larger city. Many times have I taken this trip for
                    the small sum of fifty cents for the round trip. In good weather, the trips were quite delightful
                    and were enjoyed by many. On the return trip, the boat would leave 
                        Louisville
                     about five o'clock in the afternoon. The Captain would give the signal to
                    start to the pilot and also to the mate on the deck below, and the mate in turn would direct the
                    deck hands to cut loose the guy lines that held the boat fast to the shore. There were various bell
                    signals from the pilot to the engineer below, each having its particular meaning. Soon we would be
                    in midstream, steaming up the River on our way home. The management of the boat always interested me
                    as no doubt it did other passengers on board. One of my brothers and myself were so impressed with
                    the sounds of the puffing engine, the forcing of the great black smoke from the smoke stacks, the
                    pounding of the buckets, the escaping steam, the massive wheel that propelled the boat as the
                    buckets struck the water, and various other sounds that we learned to imitate them and often gave
                    imitations to our friends at small gatherings from time to time.
            The boat would pick up all kinds of freight on the way up or down the River on such occasions, and I
                    recall that there was a stop at Utica, Indiana, where a lime kiln was located, for the loading of
                    many barrels of lime. Two deck  hands, or roustabouts as they
                    were sometimes called, would go to the top of the long hill to start the barrels of lime down the
                    chute that extended from the top of the hill to near the River's edge. When a barrel was
                    started on its journey down the hill, one of the fellows at the top would call, "Look o-u-t
                    below-o." The colored deck hand would give this alarm in a singsong manner so
                    characteristic of his race. Two other deck hands were stationed at the lower end to receive the
                    barrels to be loaded on the boat.
            After the boat had finished the loading of the lime, she would pull out and steam up the River, only
                    to land on the 
                        Kentucky
                     shore to pick up a crate of chickens or perhaps a calf for the market somewhere
                    upstream. Sometimes the deck hand would have trouble loading a calf as it would balk and he would
                    twist its tail to make it move along. This particular stunt was quite amusing for it would often
                    cause the negro, who was trying to get the calf aboard, no little trouble. Sometimes while loading
                    hogs, one of them would get away from the deck hands. Several minutes were often required in
                    catching the hog, and the leaving of the boat would be delayed.
            Large quantities of peaches were shipped by river boats from the Dean Brothers' orchards,
                    which were famous all over the country at that time. These orchards were located on the top of steep
                    hills along the Indiana shore and not far from 
                        Charleston
                    .
            Quite often the boat would carry a small orchestra to furnish music, which of course added to the
                    enjoyment of the trip, especially on a moonlight night. Dancing was the popular pastime on these
                    trips and most of the passengers participated. Most of the boats were equipped with a bar, as there
                    were no prohibition laws to worry about in those days. One would see occasionally a person who had
                    imbibed too strongly, but not often. Possibly the fellows who drank in those days knew how to handle
                    themselves better than they do now.
            Another type of boat much enjoyed by young and old was the showboat. It was music to my ears to hear
                    the calliope playing the old familiar tunes such as "This House is Haunted,"
                    "Listen to the Mockingbird," and many others too numerous to mention. The music
                    caused much excitement for all 
                        Madison
                     folk, as there would be a rush for the  river bank
                    to see the Showboat steaming up or down the River, as the case might be.
            A man by the name of Captain French owned one of these lovely boats which he christened "The
                    Sensation," He acted as its pilot for many years, showing up and down the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     rivers, stopping at most of the smaller towns that dotted the banks of these two rivers
                    from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                    . Showboats were towed by small stern wheel steamers, as the showboats did not have
                    power of their own.
            Captain and Mrs. French were close friends of my parents for many years and whenever they stopped at 
                        Madison
                    , generally called at our home. Captain French was a typical showman of the
                    "Gay Nineties," for he always wore tailormade clothes of a distinctive pattern,
                    the long coat being the cutaway type worn by so many true gentlemen of that particular profession.
                    He was a man about five feet nine, slender build, flowing moustache, fairly sharp features, keen
                    blue eyes, and a tinge of crimson at the end of his long slender nose. He generally wore a black or
                    gray broad brimmed hat, and with an angular stride his appearance was quite striking. He possessed a
                    shrewd sense for business affairs and operated his showboat at a good profit. His wife was an
                    attractive woman and almost as keen for business as her southern styled husband, assisting him in
                    keeping track of income and expenditures, while he managed the showboat.
            Members of our family were often invited to see the show whenever the Frenchs' boat happened
                    to be passing our town. I recall one time in particular when they were to show at Carrollton, 
                        Kentucky
                    , a small town located about eight miles up the River from 
                        Madison
                    . "The Sensation" came up the River reaching 
                        Madison
                     the latter part of one September afternoon. Captain French had written to us stating
                    the time of his boat's arrival, inviting any or all of us to take in the show if we so
                    desired. He wrote that he would send a boat ashore from midstream to meet us instead of having to
                    land the showboat which would have been a much more difficult operation. One of my brothers and
                    myself decided to take the trip so at the appointed hour we were at the River's bank
                    waiting for "The Sensation" to arrive. It was not long until the boat appeared and
                    soon  we were in the smaller craft being escorted to the
                    showboat in midstream. As soon as we were aboard ship, the boat began steaming away for Carrollton.
                    It was not long before we arrived, whereupon the showboat was made fast to the bank in preparation
                    for the evening entertainment. With the calliope playing, the crowds began to assemble on the shore
                    with their minds set upon seeing the show. Soon they began pouring onto the boat and it was not long
                    until the theatre of the boat was quite filled.
            The seating arrangement consisted of regular folding theatre chairs which were quite comfortable and,
                    if my memory serves me right, were upholstered with a dark red material. The interior of the theatre
                    was attractively decorated, which, of course, was just another feature to draw the crowd. The show
                    itself was of the vaudeville type, consisting of dog and pony acts, acrobatic stunts, monologues,
                    and blackfaced comedians. The orchestra occupied the pit directly in front of the stage as it does
                    in most theatres.
            The entertainment was quite clever and lasted about two hours. As soon as the show was over and the
                    crowd dispersed, the boat was made loose from its moorings and we headed back down stream. When we
                    arrived at 
                        Madison
                     at the late hour of twelve, after bidding farewell to our friends for a pleasant
                    evening, the small boat was lowered along side and my brother and I were taken ashore.
            Several years later Captain French had another showboat built and named it "The New
                    Sensation." With the two boats they could cover more territory and serve more towns than
                    was possible with the older boat. Mrs. French took out a license to operate the new boat.
            River traffic was at its height in those days with freight, passenger, showboats, mailboats, and
                    towboats plying up and down the River, day in and day out, year in and year out. In the summer
                    months excursions on the ferryboats, which operated between 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , would come up the River, stop at 
                        Madison
                     and then go on to Carrollton and return. These excursions took place almost every
                    Sunday during the summer months.
            Another means of transportation which was characteristic of those days has ceased to exist. This was
                    the mule drawn street cars. One could enter a car propelled by.one of those stubborn little long
                    eared animals and operated by  one man who collected the fares
                    in addition to driving the mule. If one wished to mail a letter and had to get stamps at the
                    postoffice, the obliging conductor would stop the car and wait for one to return and continue the
                    trip. Such privileges could be taken advantage of provided the errands happened to be along the
                    right of way. Now and then the little mule would be whipped and prodded to get him to move along a
                    little faster and sometimes this particular urging did not agree with his temperament. He would
                    "whale away" with both heels with a loud and resounding effect against the metal
                    front of the little street car. Such amusing incidents were always enjoyed by the passersby.
            The bus company used the fire engine horses from the engine house on Third Street to carry passengers
                    to and from trains and boats and often while the passengers were being transferred to their
                    destinations, the fire bells would ring, whereupon the bus driver would unhitch the horses
                    immediately, jump on one of them and away he would gallop to the engine house to answer the fire
                    alarm call, leaving the passengers stranded in the bus until the fire was over or until they became
                    tired of waiting and proceeded to walk.
            Like the horse drawn street cars, certain forms, customs, and practices that were followed in the
                    "Gay Nineties" are practically extinct now. It is interesting to note how times
                    have changed, old customs giving way to what we call more modern forms. In front of the cigar
                    stores, there was the Indian figure bedecked with feathers in gay colors, sometimes with a tomahawk
                    in the right hand and a bundle of cigars in the left, standing erect on a pedestal with one foot
                    advanced as though in the act of taking a step forward.
            Harness shops were much in evidence with their usual display of fine sets of harness with silver and
                    gold mountings, and martingale rings of various colors. There was also a rack of plain and fancy
                    buggy whips in front of the store to attract the buyer who possessed the horse and carriage so much
                    in use in that age. Life size figures of very realistic horses, dapple gray or a beautiful bay, with
                    full sets of harness bedecked with gold and silver mountings, occupied the front windows of the
                    harness shop. The owners of the stores were generally hard working, thrifty citizens who were well
                    respected by all who came in contact with them.
            The dress of men and women has changed much since  the nineties.
                    Women wore long and flowing skirts, bustles, shirt waists, tight fitting basques buttoned down the
                    front from head to waist, picture hats, high button shoes, lace collar and cuff sets, lorgnettes and
                    many other fittings peculiar to that period. The well dressed males wore silk hats, derbies, frock
                    and cutaway coat suits, high button and lace shoes, high stiff collars, stiff bosom shirts, ascot
                    ties or to use a slang expression "dirty shirt hiders," Windsor ties, and
                    detachable stiff cuffs equipped with metal clip cuff holders. Adornments for the men included heavy
                    gold watch chains, conspicuous watch charms, and stick pins. Gold headed canes were often carried.
                    In the winter men wore pulse warmers and ear tabs; the latter were connected together with a small
                    black cord that went under the chin to keep them from being lost or separated.
            Various happenings and pastimes, which were different from those of today, furnished excitement and
                    amusement for everyone. These included street corner fakers, Indian Medicine shows, skating parties
                    when the 
                        Ohio
                     River was frozen over, prohibition evangelists — such as Francis Murphy and
                    son, the signing of the Blue Ribbon Pledge—which I did as a boy and have kept the faith,
                    Hi Henry's Minstrels, Robinson's Circus, Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show,
                    the burning of the Richwood Distilleries across the River on the 
                        Kentucky
                     shore, strolling in the cemetery on Sunday, the first phonograph or graphophone, the
                    thrill of seeing the cinematograph or moving pictures, and Christmas entertainments at the churches.
                    It was a common custom on the Fourth of July to allow small boys to ring the bells in the fire
                    engine houses to proclaim to the civilians that the important day had arrived, much to the regret of
                    those who wished to take advantage of a holiday to sleep a little longer than common. I had the
                    pleasure of participating in this unusual form of entertainment so eagerly looked forward to by
                    small boys.
            Kerosene lamps were much in evidence in most of the homes as well as some of the stores. The question
                    of supply of the fuel was most important. One enterprising citizen conceived the idea of delivering
                    kerosene, or coal oil as it was commonly called, to the very door. It was a very common sight to see
                    "Coal Oil Bob," as he was called, driving his wagon up one street and down another
                    calling out his wares.  He made a comfortable living following
                    his trade and was a man who was well liked, as he was jovial and sociable.
            Besides "Coal Oil Bob" whose occupation has ceased to exist in these modern times,
                    there was a poor little old man, Josie —, by name, who eked out an
                    existence by selling wood shavings which were used in starting fires. He gathered the shavings at
                    the cooper shop. He could be seen coming slowly along the street with a couple of gunny sacks filled
                    to overflowing with the shavings on his much deformed back. He was anything but the picture of
                    cleanliness as he strode along with a week's growth of hair upon his grizzled tawny face.
                    He thought that he was a rhymester and soon would have the boys gathered around him begging for
                    poetry. His verse was generally very poor, for instance, to me he would rhyme
                    thus—"Mr. Teebits went to Shebits." It seemed amusing to us at any rate
                    as we always urged him to continue. I think he sold a whole sack of shavings for the small sum of
                    five cents. He was obliged to walk a couple of miles to the cooper shop to secure additional
                    shavings and then back again through the residential part of the town calling out his wares. As I
                    now look back over these years, I can't help thinking how the poor old fellow suffered and
                    sacrificed the joys of real living, merely to make a few pennies to keep body and soul together.
                    Fortunately, for those in such circumstances, commodities were exceptionally low in price, otherwise
                    such fellows would not have lived very long. Josie was a good-natured old fellow and apparently
                    always willing to amuse the small boys with his very simple rhyming.
            At one time 
                        Madison
                     was policed by a town marshal, who was short of stature, stockily built, but not fleet
                    of foot. The boys tormented him by making up rhymes about him that were anything but elevating to
                    say the least. He would swear savagely at the culprits and at the same time try to overtake them,
                    but all in vain. I don't think that any fellow bent on thieving or otherwise breaking the
                    law had need to worry about this town marshal being able to catch him in a foot race. He occupied
                    the position until the time of more modern forms of policing.
            Dick —, another of these town characters, was full of wit and humor. He was in his element
                    when full of other things, and was perfectly harmless even when hardly  able to keep his feet after too much imbibing, which was quite
                    habitual. One of his clever pranks was supposed to have taken place during a trip to 
                        Louisville
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    . Entering one of the old time favorite rednezvous, he called for a good old drink of 
                        Kentucky
                     Bourbon. The bartender, anxious to please and to show the proper southern hospitality,
                    brought forth Dick's favorite brand. The latter remarked as he drank: "This is
                    fine whiskey, Brother." To this the bartender replied: "There is none
                    better." After taking several drinks and chatting a few minutes, with never an offer to
                    pay, the bartender said: "Well, how about the pay?" "Oh," said
                    Dick, pretending to go through all of his pockets, "that's funny, I thought I had
                    some money," although he did not have any money when he entered the place and was only
                    stalling for time. The bartender then immediately booted Dick out on the sidewalk. His feelings were
                    hurt to say nothing of the rest of his anatomy. It was often said that no one could get ahead of
                    Dick and this case was no exception, for he walked around the streets until the rush hour at the
                    closing of the stores, when he entered the same saloon, which was quite crowded. Being a man of
                    small stature, Dick wedged himself between two big fellows in order not to be noticed so quickly,
                    and called for a glass of whiskey from the same bartender who had ejected him from the building not
                    so many hours before. The bartender did not recognize the little man until he began to collect from
                    the various customers he had served. Then seeing Dick's familiar face, he exclaimed:
                    "What, you here again?" Whereupon, Dick, raising the tails of his long coat, said:
                    "Yes, come and get your pay." The bartender thought the joke a clever one and
                    invited Dick to have one on the house. "Being under the weather," as the saying
                    goes, this unique character was in a happy mood most of the time and it was not uncommon to see
                    several persons gathered around him while he talked glibly. Even little folk enjoyed listening to
                    his funny tales as he was always attentive to little children and was a man with a kind heart.
            I suppose that most small towns have had and still have their peculiar characters that are a
                    continual source of amusement to the town-folk. Among those at 
                        Madison
                     might be mentioned the one-armed Civil War veteran who was always on hand to fire the
                    cannon on the Fourth of July and on  other patriotic occasions.
                    Then there was old Fred —, who was partially paralyzed, whose reddish
                    face—caused by habitual drinking—was generally covered with a week's
                    growth of beard, and who was teased by the youngsters in order to hear his flow of language, which
                    was fit only for a pirate. Jimmie — made his living distributing handbills and running
                    errands. He was quite untidy in appearance, his big, round face being generally covered with a
                    stubby, unruly beard, and his vest being the sole beneficiary of a careless gormandizer. He made
                    various claims about his ability to eat large quantities of food and was said to have refused to
                    enter a contest in the East unless the officials would pay his board during the contest. It was his
                    custom to break off a conversation especially on Saturday with the remark: "I must go home
                    now and take my bath."
            Of a very different character, are recollections of Alex Lanier and Edward Eggleston. The former was
                    the eldest son of J. F. D. Lanier, and to him was left the beautiful old colonial home which
                    overlooks the 
                        Ohio
                     River and the 
                        Kentucky
                     hills beyond. The grounds were surrounded by substantial stone walls with double iron
                    gates leading to the entrance of the stately old home. By peering through these gates on hot summer
                    days Alex Lanier could be seen sitting under the shade of the lovely old trees, surrounded by
                    tropical plants, fanning himself while lounging comfortably in a large arm chair. He was a bird dog
                    fancier and kept quite a kennel of fine bird dogs.
            As a boy I remember seeing the author of The Hoosier Schoolmaster as he walked
                    about the streets of 
                        Madison
                     attending to his daily affairs. He was a fairly tall man, with shoulders somewhat
                    stooped, a head of heavy gray hair and rounded features. His dress consisted of a suit of pure black
                    cloth with a cutaway coat and black fedora hat. I fancy I can see him now as he rode about town on
                    an early make of tricycle. He lived with relatives on Main Street between Broadway and Plum streets
                    for a number of years. He seemed to be a man of few words, studious, and of noble character.
            All in all the "Gay Nineties" were most interesting and peaceful times in which to
                    live, when friends were real friends and willing to lend a helping hand with kind and sympathetic
                    feelings for the other fellow in times of trouble. Gangsters 
                    were unheard of, there were no burglaries of any consequence nor was there any purse-snatching.
                    Automobiles did not extend the daily toll or make walking so dangerous. Most houses were never
                    locked and one could trust a fellowman with almost anything that might be given or loaned to him.
                    People attended church, and also prayer meeting in the middle of the week. The young folk were more
                    considerate of their elders to whose advice they listened quite attentively. Perhaps this was
                    because the parents used the switch to good advantage upon their offspring and because its
                    impressions were quite lasting. Simple living such as filled the lives of folk in the
                    'nineties was most conducive to sincere and strong friendships, more pronounced religious
                    tendencies, a stronger faith in mankind, and more brotherly love.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            
               Prehistory Research Series, Number 2, Volume 2, is an illustrated article by George
                    I. Quimby, Jr., on The Good-all Site: An Analysis of Ten Hopewellian Components in 
                            Michigan
                         and Indiana. The Goodall site (named from the owner of the land) in 
                        La Porte County
                     is the only component among the ten discussed which is in Indiana. Its name has been
                    adopted to designate the focus or group which Mr. Quimby finds belongs to the Hopewellian phase.
            The paper is the result of the study by the author of all the available material on the Hopewellian
                    culture phase in 
                        Michigan
                     and of an archaeological survey of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     River Valley in 
                        Michigan
                     and Indiana, made in 1936 by the author and Glenn A. Black, of the Indiana Historical
                    Society. The article is an excellent illustration of the progress now being made in the study of the
                    Mound Builders (prehistory has become the most generally accepted term) by a careful and detailed
                    analyses of the material thus far recovered from the mounds, by a comparison of the characteristics
                    of artifacts recovered from the mounds which are excavated, and of the reported structure of the
                    mounds, burial customs, et cetera. It is largely by such detailed studies that the true relationship
                    and grouping of the people who built the mounds can be discovered. In the absence of written record
                    and in the absence of survival of any of the social and political divisions with which we are
                    familiar in historical times, the archaeologist must find the basis for the smaller and larger units
                    of his study as well as work out his classifications. Mr. Quimby's article may well
                    establish a basis for further progress in the study of the ascending series of smaller and larger
                    units along which the culture of the Mound Builders developed—sites which are components
                    of foci belonging to the Hopewellian, and other phases of the great patterns of the prehistoric
                    peoples of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley and the region of the Great Lakes.
            The numbers of Prehistory Research Series are sent upon request without charge.
                    They are available to members of the Indiana Historical Society so long as the supply lasts.
            The twenty-third annual Indiana History Conference will be held at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 12 and 13. These Conferences are sponsored by the Indiana Historical Society,
                         the Society of Indiana Pioneers, and the Historical Bureau.
                    The two societies share equally the expenses of the Conference and the Historical Bureau publishes
                    the Proceedings (usually the February number of the Indiana History Bulletin). All
                    the historical organizations in the state are invited to participate in the Conference; a number of
                    them are represented on the program and some members of all of them are usually in attendance. There
                    are special sessions during the Conference of the Business History Society, college teachers of
                    history, the Indiana Association of the History of Medicine, junior historical societies, the
                    Indiana History Teachers Association and local historical societies. Both the Indiana Historical
                    Society and the Society of Indiana Pioneers have their annual business meeting and general session
                    during the Conference. Among those on the committee in charge of the Conference this year are Emsley
                    W. Johnson, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , representing the Society of Indiana Pioneers, Esther U. McNitt, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Albert L. Kohlmeier, of 
                        Bloomington
                    , representing the Indiana Historical Society, and Christopher B. Coleman, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , representing the Historical Bureau. The full committee will be announced later.
                    Officers and other members of the executive committee of the Indiana Historical Society are
                    re-elected at the annual meeting. The committee on nominations for 1941 consists of Professor A. D.
                    Beeler, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , chairman; Mrs. Robert A. Adams and Fred Bates Johnson, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Mrs. Agnes Tilson Adcock, Greenwood; Gale Smith, Fowler.
            The Historical Society is sponsoring another series of historical lectures and talks for the
                    1941–42 season. Last year's series included talks by Charles E. Heberhart, of 
                        Madison
                    , on "Beginnings of 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Jefferson County
                    "; Paul W. Gates, of Cornell University, on "Western Opposition to the
                    Agricultural College Act"; Francis W. Robinson, of the 
                        Detroit
                     Institute of Arts, on "Early Representations of the American Indian";
                    and Professor Wilbur C. Abbott, of 
                        Harvard
                     University, on "The First Newspapermen." The program for the coming
                    fall, winter, and spring has not been definitely arranged but four meetings are in prospect, to be
                    held in the evening in the Historical Society Library (William Henry Smith Memorial), in the State
                    Library and Historical Building. Announcements will be made in the papers later and in the Indiana History Bulletin.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            ADVICE FROM MICHAEL C. KERR TO A RECONSTRUCTED REBEL CONGRESSMAN
            Edited by (Miss) WILLIE D. HALSELL
            
            Both the northern Democrat, Michael C. Kerr of Indiana1 and the southern
                    Democrat, Lucius Q. C. Lamar of 
                        Mississippi
                    ,2 achieved high positions in the first Congress with a Democratic
                    majority after the war, the Forty-fourth Congress. The Democratic caucus chose Lamar for permanent
                    chairman of the caucus and Kerr for Speaker of the House on the same day of December, 1875.3 Notwithstanding the fact that Lamar supported Samuel J. Randall for Speaker in
                    the caucus contest,4 Kerr shortly afterwards appointed Lamar to the important
                    post of chairman of the House Committee on the Pacific Railroad.5
            
            Lamar and Kerr had first become acquainted in the Forty-second Congress. Kerr was one of the several
                    northern Democrats whose opinion Lamar valued when he asked 
                  
                     1 Michael C. Kerr was born in 
                                Pennsylvania
                             in 1827, and, after studying law in the 
                                Louisville
                             (
                                Kentucky
                            ) University, he began practicing in Indiana in 1852. He advanced rapidly in his
                            profession, serving as city attorney, county prosecuting attorney, state representative, and
                            state Supreme Court reporter. He was elected to Congress in 1865 and served, with the
                            exception of the Forty-third Congress, till his death in 1876. Biographical
                                Directory of the American Congress, 1774–1927 (
                                Washington
                            , 1928), 1178–79.
                  
                     2 Lucius Q. C. Lamar, a native of 
                                Georgia
                            , is identified with the history of 
                                Mississippi
                            's to which state he moved before the war. Author of 
                                Mississippi
                            's Ordinance of Secession, soldier and diplomat for the Confederacy, he
                            made his greatest contribution to the South and the nation after the war through his
                            conservative policies and leadership toward sectional reconciliation and national unity.
                            After years of service in the House of Representatives and the Senate, he became Secretary
                            of the Interior in Grover Cleveland's cabinet, and subsequently associate justice
                            of the 
                                United States
                             Supreme Court. He died in 1893. Dunbar Rowland (ed.), 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                , Comprising Sketches of Counties, Towns, Events, Institutions, and Persons,
                                Arranged in Cyclopedia Form (3 vols., 
                                Atlanta
                            , 1907), II, 22–35.
                  
                     3
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Herald, December 5, 1875; 
                                Washington
                            
                            Capital, December 5, 1875; 
                                Springfield
                             (
                                Massachusetts
                            ) Daily Republican, December 6, 1875.
                  
                     4
                            The Jackson (
                                Mississippi
                            ) Times, December 9, 1875. Considering Randall's long
                            and "spectacular" defense of the South in Congress, it was to be expected
                            that Lamar would support him. See Albert V. House, Jr., "Northern Congressional
                            Democrats as Defenders of the South During Reconstruction," in Journal
                                of Southern History (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1935—), VI (1940), 66.
                  
                     5
                            Congressional Record, 44 Cong., 1 sess., 250 (December 20, 1875).
               
                     how he, a southern congressman, could best advance the cause of
                    sectional reconciliation. Their answers confirmed his own ideas,6 the fruition
                    of which appeared in his eulogy on Charles Sumner in April, 1874.7 Of the
                    replies Lamar received to his question, Kerr's letter alone seems to have been preserved.
                    It is in the 
                        Mississippi
                     Department of Archives and History, and follows here in full: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                        Washington
                                        , D.C. 
                           
                                    March 15, 1873
                                
                        Hon. L. Q. C. Lamar—
                        My dear Sir—
                        I come now to redeem my promise, after too much delay, I admit, but yet as soon as I
                                    could find leisure. I know you will pardon the delay, under the circumstances, and
                                    also my use of this paper, for I have no better at hand.
                        You needed to offer no apology for writing me as you did, and I accept your inquiries
                                    as complimentary to myself, and assure you of my sincere appreciation of your kind
                                    Expressions towards me. I deeply fear that I will not be able to make any useful or
                                    satisfactory response to your inquiries. But I will reply in the same spirit of
                                    frankness & patriotism in which you write.
                        My feelings of interest & sympathy toward your people and section have for
                                    years been Earnest and warm. At ti[mes8] my reflections upon
                                    your unhappy con[di]tions have been such as to fill [me with] sadness. Your letter
                                    recalls many of [my] thoughts. Its references to the manner in which, your local and
                                    national relations, are Environed and Embarrassed by [diffi]culties &
                                    dangers, are so truthful [as to] produce real pain.
                        Many of the evils with which your people & section are affilicted result
                                    logically and directly from certain fundamental changes in our institutions during
                                    the last decade. It is a truism, under any system of elective and representative
                                    institutions that, the body of the representatives will never rise very much above
                                    the body of Electors in virtue, intelligence and patriotism. Therefore, whatever
                                    tends to debauch or demoralize the body of electors, will certainly bear fruit of
                                    like character in the body of representatives. The influence of these principles has
                                    been productive of its most Enduring & disastrous results in your section.
                                    These are things to be profoundly deplored, but they should not be allowed to Excite
                                    unmanly despondency. That, by these Events and influences, the immediate
                                    representation in Congress from your section has been to a great Extent robbed of
                                    its former high and noble qualities, of its culture and discipline, of its courage
                                    and unpurch[a]sable integrity, and of its truly conserva[tive] character, as
                                    illustrated in our Early [poli]tics, is matter for most 
                              
                                 6 Edward Mayes, Lucius Q. C. Lamar: His
                                                Life, Times, and Speeches, 1825–1893 (
                                                Nashville
                                            , 1896), 176.
                              
                                 7
                                            Congressional Record, 43 Cong., 1 sess.,
                                            3410–11 (April 27, 1874).
                              
                                 8 The manuscript is worn and slight mutilated on the
                                            corners.
                           
                                     anxious thought [and] apprehension. If such
                                    delegations of [sta]tesmen, with brains, virtue, experience [&] power, as
                                    were sent up before the war, [wou]ld now be returned, without the dis[ad]vantage of
                                    certain tendencies towards strife and disintegration, what a blessed Event it would
                                    mark for the honor, welfare and happiness of all sections of our country! Such a
                                    boon may not be anticipated for our country in our time, if it come even within half
                                    a century.
                        But, after all, our greatest duties are to be met and discharged with constant
                                    reference to the present and the future—not the past, Except as the
                                    latter may be appealed to for suggestion & Experience. The evil conditions
                                    are upon us, and we cannot go back—we must go forward, whether wisely or
                                    not. You, I feel no doubt, in the most keenly sensitive manner, appreciate Existing
                                    Conditions and the changed relations they bring in many important respects to public
                                    men. You ask me what I, if a southern representative, with my present knowledge of
                                    Northern Conditions & sentiments, would do, and how I would direct my
                                    conduct. The question is not improper to ask, but is certain[ly] very difficult to
                                    answer. If with my [pres]ent Knowledge of Northern feeling [and] political
                                    sentiments, I were also in as full possession of the same information touching the
                                    South as you are, then [I] could give you intelligent answers. [But] I am unhappily
                                    only in possession of half the situation, and cannot advise with
                                    any desirable fullness of information. Yet during Eight years of Congressional
                                    service, I have watched with deepest interest the Conduct of Southern
                                    representatives in Congress, and some convictions have resulted therefrom concerning
                                    the mistakes of Southern representatives. I may, perhaps, not improperly, resort to
                                    this source for some suggestions.
                        With my views of public duty, I would do as a southern representative just what I
                                    would do as a northern representative, save only my action in reference to matters
                                    Essentially local—in Contradistinction to matters general, national, or
                                    political. Sectionalism, in its real, hurtful, and malign signification, arises not
                                    out of devotion in a mere local & now political sense to domestic interests,
                                    but also solely out of divisions by geographical lines upon questions [of] public
                                    policy which in truth and fact affect in a real and active sense all parts and
                                    sections of the country. The latter, not the former, are the political issues which
                                    arouse passion, or prejudice, or fears. I am sure you will agree with me that, while
                                    our country remains a unit under Existing institutions, the South in any controversy
                                    of a sectional Character has infinitely more to apprehend than the North, and has,
                                    therefore, more to gain, more good results to secure, and more dangers to avoid, by
                                    conduct and policy distinctly national and conservative. As a friend and servant of
                                    the South, I would therefore deprecate and Condemn the spirit of sectionalism, and I
                                    would discountenance Every attempt among southern representatives to organize in
                                    such a spirit for the attainment of any purpose, and I would struggle with steady
                                    aim and Energy to Square my conduct as a public officer and law-maker by the rule of
                                    the most broad, national, just and conservative principles. I would accept the part,
                                         so far as its results have been
                                    incorporated into our system, and look to the future for reform, improvemen[t] and
                                    amelioration. I would de[]ly and do right towards all, as far [as] my ability would
                                    Enable me to [do.] I would strive to develope [sic.] and
                                    [en]courage hope and cheerfulne[ss] amongst my people, and give m[y] Earnest and
                                    Effective thought [and] Efforts to the improvement, moral, intellectual, political,
                                    and material, of the body of Electors. This is in truth the greatest field, now
                                    demanding most wise and patient culture, that is open to the really true, good,
                                    generous and patriotic men of the South. The absence of the needful improvement in
                                    these respects amongst your Electors, as now Constituted, is the most fruitful
                                    & fatal source of your misfortunes, and of many misfortunes to the whole
                                    country. The task is one of almost disheartening magnitude. It cannot be
                                    accomplished in a day, or a generation. But it must be
                                    accomplished before thorough and permanent political reform and regeneration can be
                                    secured. It may appear to be a harsh judgment, but it is just and true, that your
                                    representative bodies in the south, and many also in the North, and Even Congress
                                    itself, are corrupt because [the] Constituencies who make the
                                    representatives are Corrupt. The reforms [ou]r Entire Country now needs, [to] be
                                    Effective, must begin in the [re]form of the people themselves, in the cultivation
                                    and practise of higher morality, more honesty, and a general reäwakening
                                    of more Enlightened popular Conscience. Moral insensibility now rules the country.
                                    Selfish, low, and grovelling aspirations now too often usurp control where manly
                                    courage, unselfish patriotism, and incorruptible integrity alone should govern. It
                                    is in view of these reflections and facts, that I rejoice to know that you, one man
                                    at least, Endowed with the qualities and the Experience which fit you for useful
                                    & honorable public service are returned to the House. I by no means agree
                                    that it is a mistake for you to reënter public life. It is Entirely
                                    practicable for you, although almost alone, to Exercise such a Wholesome &
                                    reässuring influence on the popular mind both of the South &
                                    North, as will not fail to be beneficial to both, but most Effectively to your own
                                    section. I hope [] Stephens9 will so conduct himself [as] to
                                    give you hearty coöperation. The restraining influence of a [few] brave,
                                    strong, cultured, & true [men] on others unworthily inclined [is] very
                                    great, very profitable to the [coun]try, and most honorable to them.
                        But, My dear Sir, I have written too much, and I fear I have not yet touched the
                                    points to which you desired to call my mind. It has, perhaps wrongfully, been
                                    assumed by me that you did not Enquire my views on public questions of any Specific
                                    nature. You are in a general sense well acquainted with my positions on them, as I
                                    am with yours. But if I were to indicate any one question of great national concern,
                                    the cultivation and practical Establishment of which is of transcendant importance
                                    to the south, I would name the great subject of our fiscal policy—our
                                    systems of taxation, and 
                              
                                 9 Alexander H. Stephens was at the time a member of
                                            the House of Representatives.
                           
                                     of robbery under the pretense of protection.
                                    They now violate Every decent requirement of honest legislation and Equal laws.
                        You Express a desire to Correspond, and I shall Cheerfully accept your suggestion
                                    & invite you to write to me in the utmost unreserve, & allow me [to]
                                    write you in like manner, with the mutual understanding that we write only for
                                    private use. I hope you may [fu]lly regain your health & come to the [H]ouse
                                    in December prepared in your [ol]d habit to grapple successfully with [the]
                                    important questions that are sure to meet you [ ].
                        
                                    I am very Truly Yours 
                                    M. C. Kerr
                                
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            SOME LETTERS OF JUDGE JEREMIAH C. SULLIVAN
            Edited by JOSEPH HERMAN SCHAUINGER
            
            Some of the letters of Judge Sullivan, whose career has been sketched in an article in this issue of
                    the Indiana Magazine of History seemed too important to be omitted and yet too
                    long to be quoted in an article of this type. Selections from them, together with some parts of less
                    important letters, have been brought together in order that the Judge's character might be
                    seen from his own writings and that the evidence which the letters contain of developments in
                    Indiana and the nation might be more readily available to students of history.
            The first two letters have less historical significance than the others, but they do reveal the
                    intense religious nature of Judge Sullivan, while the third contains an expression of religious
                    imperialism which is not often seen. Along with his spiritual earnestness went a hostility towards
                    the theatre, which found expression in the seventh letter. The fear of cholera in the river towns
                    and something of the methods used to combat it are described in letters four, five, and eight. That
                    this fear nor the disease itself did not seriously interfere with the prosperity of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, in which the Sullivan family lived, is made clear by the sixth letter. Little
                    items of political news are found in the next two selections. Letters eleven to sixteen indicate the
                    reaction to the troubled national situation in 1860 and 1861 as the Civil War began. After these are
                    six letters telling of the entanglement of one of the Judge's sons with the federal
                    government on charges of disloyalty because the son undertook to act as attorney for Confederate
                    privateers  in order to prevent their treatment as pirates. The
                    last six letters give more or less minor sidelights on the progress of the war, such as the Morgan
                    Raid, and the draft trouble in 
                        New York
                     City. Throughout the series the intense nationalism and loyalty of the Judge are
                    evident. His dislike of the southern leaders, whom he held responsible for the war, must have been
                    representative of northern opinion that supported the Radical Republicans during the Reconstruction
                    Era. This change, from the indifference for Free Soilism in 1852, to the vigorous hostility towards
                    slavery and the South during 1860–1864, is probably the most important feature of these
                    documents.
            Only parts of each letter are printed; personal salutations, and items of family interest were
                    omitted. Where the omissions occur within the portions quoted, these omissions are indicated in the
                    usual manner, otherwise no indication is given. Nothing has been done to change the meaning of the
                    letters; spelling, abbreviations, capitalization, italics, and the like are given as found in the
                    originals. Brackets indicate any added explanatory material. The letters are part of the Sullivan
                    Collection in the William Henry Smith Library of the Indiana Historical Society in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana. A very few of the letters have been retained by the family, but typewritten
                    copies of important portions of these have been placed in the collection. 
            (1)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    December 5, 1843
                                
                        I hope your health continues good, and that you are able to prosecute your studies
                                    with all proper diligence, besides I hope you are careful to observe studious & correct habits. Let it be your aim to be a good
                                    scholar, and use your scholarship for useful & noble purposes. The first
                                    great object with all of us should be the glory of God, which includes everything
                                    else. Whatever we do for the good of mankind should be some form or principle of
                                    obedience to his requirements, and if we do, to mankind, all that he requires us to
                                    do, we shall be truly & extensively useful.
                     
                  
               
                
            (2)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    June 17, 1844
                                
                        I expected to have received a letter from you before this time  but have been disappointed. I am sorry you are so
                                    backward about writing. You should improve opportunities for letter writing, that
                                    you may, by practice and use, become a good letter writer. It is a handsome
                                    accomplishment, and can only be acquired by practice. No man will ever write a good
                                    letter, or generally he will not write good letters until he shall have written some
                                    poor ones. The epistolary style cannot be acquired from books, because the familiar,
                                    conversational style which ought to be employed in letter writing, is not to be
                                    found in them. I would recommend to you to keep a scrap book in which to write down
                                    your thoughts … as a means of improving yourself in every sort of
                                    composition….
                        Whether our University will continue or not is yet somewhat doubtful, though I hope
                                    it may….
                        But I would not have you always at your books. You must give some
                                    time to the exercise of thought and meditation, so as to digest the food you take
                                    into your mind. It is possible for a man to possess a great deal of knowledge and have but little wisdom. Learned dunces are
                                    not uncommon. Knowledge & wisdom are very different
                                    things….
                        Whatever you study or read therefore, meditate upon, until you make every thought
                                    your own and can express it in your own language. Think about it
                                    until you are able to make a practical use of it. You should also relax the mind by
                                    cheerful conversation & singing occasionally; and do not forget that
                                    necessary exercise which the body needs for health.
                        Having said so much about knowledge & wisdom, I should not omit to point you
                                    to the source of all wisdom & knowledge. If wisdom be desirable, surely that
                                    wisdom that is calculated to secure to us the greatest amount of good, is what we
                                    ought to aim after. "The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom."
                                    Cultivate in your heart a reverence for the name and authority of God …. Let your thoughts ascend to Him frequently
                                    that He would guide … and especially that He would use you, if your life
                                    be spared, in that way that will most advance His glory and your good. …
                        When Mr. Bright left here, I sent by him for the 
                                        New York
                                     Weekly Tribune, to be directed to you. It is a good paper on many
                                    accounts but on others not so good….
                     
                  
               
                
            (3)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Jerry C. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    January 3, 1849.
                                
                        I often sit down & indulge in fancying that you may, at some day, be a
                                    distinguished man in the navy, knowing that your natural abilities are competent to
                                    anything you may undertake, if you will only apply mind and heart to it, and I
                                    sometimes fancy that you may be in a situation, some day, to do good by aiding
                                    missionaries & other good people in Foreign lands, in spreading the Gospel,
                                    and extending the boundaries of civil & religious liberty. "I do
                                    not know," I often say to myself, "but God is raising up my boy,
                                    to fill an important  place in the great
                                    religious movement that is now making in the world" ….
                        The news here of cholera at 
                                        New Orleans
                                     and at Vicksburg and other places on the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     River has created quite a sensation. We are beginning by cleaning the
                                    streets, dieting, etc., to prepare for it ….
                     
                  
               
                
            (4)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    May 29, 1849
                                
                        There is a great deal of cholera in Cintti. [
                                        Cincinnati
                                    ], more than is publicly known …. I hear the cholera has made
                                    its appearance again at 
                                        Memphis
                                    . I tremble for Tommy [another son, who had moved to 
                                        Memphis
                                    ], since, as it appears, the disease makes great havoc amongst those who
                                    have been in Mexico, & are or were subject to chronic
                                    diarhea [sic.] ….
                     
                  
               
                
            (5)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    July 12, 1849
                                
                        We have cholera here also. Every day some new case, and almost every day one or more
                                    deaths ….
                        Among the deaths at this place by cholera last week was old Tom
                                        McCormick. He died cursing the world at large
                                    ….
                     
                  
               
                
            (6)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Jerry C. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    December 17, 1849
                                
                        I have as fully as much as I can do …. The whole town is improving very
                                    rapidly by the erection of new buildings & from increase of population
                                    & business. Our New Hotel is a very fine building indeed. Some stores have
                                    been erected here that would do credit to 4th Street in Cintti ….
                     
                  
               
                
            (7)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                                    Madison
                                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    January 30, 1850
                                
                        I cannot forbear to drop you a line expressing the deep regret & sorrow I
                                    felt today on hearing that you were seen at a Theatre in Cintti
                                    one evening during the last week. I felt not only sorrow but disappointment. When we first contemplated your settlement in
                                    Cintti.; I felt some apprehensions, I admit, that you might possibly be led away by
                                    the fascinations of the City, but my confidence in yr sincerity as a Christian
                                    professor overcame them,—and subsequently not hearing that you visited
                                    such places led me to believe & feel confident that you did not. I was
                                    therefore disappointed when I heard what to me was sad news. I
                                    trust that you yourself have regretted  it since
                                    it occurred. I think your pastor when he hears it will mourn over it. There are many
                                    members of yr Church that will have no confidence in your piety. Your usefulness to
                                    some extent, indeed, a great extent, will be gone, & I
                                    hope in yr own bosom there is a feeling that you have done wrong. If the 2d Church
                                    were composed of Theatre going christians, what good would it accomplish. Certainly
                                    none. As the whole church should be, so should every member be.
                        Now, my dear Son, I write this for your eyes only. I wish you to resolve the subject
                                    in your own mind, & take it with you to yr closet. If you do not perceive
                                    your error, you will then be in a worse condition than I have supposed. If you feel
                                    that you have done wrong repent sincerely ….
                        The Family has heard nothing of it, and I intend to say nothing to them about it. The
                                    sincere love I bear you, & my desire for your advancement as a christian
                                    prompts what I have written ….
                     
                  
               
                
            (8)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    June 26, 1850
                                
                        We have heard some startling rumors about cholera in Cintti. The report here is that
                                    it is prevailing very extensively—far more so than your city papers
                                    admit. Of course we are anxious about you …. Are you careful to avoid
                                    fruits, vegetables … avoid the night air [and] damp places
                                ….
                     
                  
               
                
            (9)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    August 30, 1851
                                
                        You have heard, no doubt, of the challenge to fight between Jo Marshall and J. D.
                                    Bright. The parties left here 2 or 3 days ago to fight …. Yesterday
                                    evening a dispatch by telegr. informed us that the difficulty was settled without
                                    bloodshed and indeed without fighting ….
                     
                  
               
                
            (10)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    October 23, 1852
                                
                        He [Tommy, the son in 
                                        Memphis
                                    ] says further that 
                                        Tennessee
                                     is sure for Scott.
                        We had a free-soil speech from Mr. Lewis of Cinti. It was a very effective popular
                                    harangue, but, I thought, without much point to it; that is he depicted the evils of
                                    slavery in a way to take strong hold of the feelings—but he did not show
                                    how we could remedy them, except by voting for Hale.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            (11)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    November 12, 1860
                                
                        I am alarmed at the present appearance of things in our country. The signs are
                                    ominous of evil & nothing but evil. In addition to our political troubles,
                                    we are on the eve (it is thought) of a terrible financial crisis. The farmers in
                                    many parts of 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , 
                                        Ohio
                                    , & Indiana are running on the banks—for the purpose
                                    of converting what paper they have into gold and silver.
                        The Bank men look scared. They are evidently alarmed. Southern money is leaving this
                                    part of the country rapidly as I am informed….
                     
                  
               
                
            (12)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    December 20, 1860
                                
                        If I were in a condition to write, I might write you a long letter about the affairs
                                    of our country & the gloom that hangs over us. I cannot do it today. I will
                                    only say that I will not allow any man or set of men to manufacture opinions for
                                    me.—I will, considerably & prayerfully, decide for myself what
                                    are right & duty in the present emergency, act upon the decision of my
                                    judgement, and leave the result to God….
                     
                  
               
                
            (13)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    April 18, 1861
                                
                        Yesterday … Jerry left here at the head of about 100 men for Inds [
                                        Indianapolis
                                    ] to join the army now mustering in this state to proceed to 
                                        Washington
                                     City. He raised his flag on Monday last and on the next day reported
                                    himself to the Gov. received orders to march the same day, and on yesterday marched.
                                    I found him to be extremely popular. Men rushed to his standard, while others who
                                    had been trying to raise companies here for weeks were not near full. The excitement
                                    by the attack on Sumter had the effect to fill his ranks so soon, yet it was very
                                    manifest that he was considered as the boy for the business on
                                    hand.
                        There are quite a number here who sympathise with the South yet I have not a particle
                                    of doubt but that 4/5ths of the people of Indiana are willing to enroll themselves
                                    to fight the Confederate Army as readily as they would an army of foreign invaders.
                                    The feeling is intense, & it will be manifested in the coming contact.
                        Our country is in an awful condition, & no power can subdue the disturbed
                                    elements but He who commanded the wind & waves to be still ….
                     
                  
               
                
            
            (14)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    May 9, 1861
                                
                        I am not surprised when you say "that I (you) am peculiarly unhappy at the
                                    pending war." It is undoubtedly a source of unhappiness to all good men.
                                    But I am surprised that you should, after all that has transpired, feel the least
                                    sympathy for 
                                        Virginia
                                     or for any of the rebel states. If ever a set of men deserved the
                                    characters of thieves, murderers, and traitors, the leaders of this rebellion
                                    deserve it, & deserve the doom of thieves and traitors. They have rebelled
                                    against the Govt., and not content with a quiet secession, have attacked and
                                    destroyed Govt. property, but have boldly & defiantly proclaimed that they
                                    wd seize 
                                        Washington
                                     City & drive the President from it—that they would
                                    take possession & be the Govt—and all this to inaugurate a
                                    Government on the principles enunciated by Vice-Prest. (as he is called) Stephens in
                                    his late speech to his Georgian constituents.
                        No, my son, there should be no sympathy for such men. They ought to be mowed down as
                                    a mower would mow the grass in his meadow. God has permitted this rebellion for wise
                                    and glorious purposes. Slavery will be destroyed, or the system
                                    greatly mitigated, and our country will come out of the conflict the most powerful
                                    nation on the globe. I do not say that there will be a reconstruction. Perhaps not.
                                    I do not think it desirable that there should be, but the heresy of secession will
                                    be rebuked, and rebellion will not again raise its head. I hope there will not be
                                    much shedding of blood as some people apprehend. 
                                        Maryland
                                     is already subdued. Before many months 
                                        Virginia
                                     after two or three fights will follow the example of 
                                        Maryland
                                    . 
                                        Charlestown
                                     & Pensacola must be subdued, and there may be fighting on the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     River—the balance will be at sea, and not much there.
                        I notice in the 
                                        New York
                                     papers that there are individuals in that city who are said to be
                                    "suspected persons." I pray God you may not be one of them. To be
                                    suspected of unfaithfulness to your Govt. wd be utter ruin & never ending
                                    infamy. Come out boldly with such men as Genl. Dix, and say that the Govt. must be
                                    sustained at any & every cost. Don't let your interests in Va., or
                                    the interests of your friends there, weigh one feather with you.
                        After you have read this letter carefully, burn it, least [sic.] it be seen by somebody to your injury. I
                                    have burned your letter. Speak boldly in favor of sustaining the
                                    Govt., of sustaining law & order. Don't ever be suspected of
                                    unfaithfulness. Enroll yr name in the Home Guard & fight if necessary. I can
                                    say no more.
                     
                  
               
                
            (15)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    May 25, 1861
                                
                        This morning Jerry was commissioned Colonel of the 13th Regiment of
                                    State troops. Gov. Morton, I think, would rather have appointed  some political favorite but the expressed wishes of the
                                    Regt. and public opinion were too strong for him to overcome, and he was compelled
                                    to yield. I don't think he had any particular objection to Jerry, but he
                                    thought he might possibly advance his own interests by appointing somebody else. I
                                    got the Commission from the Gov. myself, & Jerry is now in
                                    full command.
                        As you have no doubt been telegraphing to your friends in 
                                        Virginia
                                     & Balto. recently, I have felt anxious to know from you whether
                                    there can possibly be anything in your dispatches that fault can be found with. You
                                    know that the manuscripts that have been left at the Tel. offices for the last 6
                                    months have been seized by the Govt., and the rumor here is that important
                                    discoveries have been made….
                     
                  
               
                
            (16)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    July 5, 1861
                                
                        He [Jerry] left last night … with 1046 men for Belair (opposite Wheeling)
                                    there to await orders. He has a fine Regt.—stout, active
                                    men—well drilled—and himself in fine spirits. I hope he may do
                                    well.
                        We are waiting with great anxiety to see the President's message and to
                                    learn what comes next.
                     
                  
               
                
            (17)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Mrs. Mary M. Sullivan [wife of Algernon Sydney Sullivan]
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    September 14, 1861
                                
                        Your letter of the 11th inst came to hand within the last hour. I had heard of
                                    Algernon's arrest, but knew no particulars until today. This afternoon I
                                    saw Mr. Seward's letter of the 11th to Mr. Lord. When the news first
                                    reached me I felt neither alarmed nor mortified, believing that he had done nothing
                                    but what he might properly do in the line of his profession, and that he was
                                    arrested on suspicion, and not from any evidence that the State Department had in
                                    its possession. But Mr. Seward's letter & the extract from Mr.
                                    Lord's note to you, … have produced a little alarm. I still feel
                                    however that all that Algernon has written can be shown & proved to be
                                    consistent with his duties to the Gov't to which he owes allegiance. I
                                    believe that he would not write or say anything intentionally
                                    traitorous.
                        I wrote today to Hon. Wm. M. Tunn, who is now at 
                                        Washington
                                    , requesting him to call on the Secretary of State, and intercede on
                                    Algernon's behalf. Mr. Dunn is the member of Congress from this District. I
                                    also requested [him] to submit the letter to Mr. Seward. He knows Algernon and I
                                    think will befriend him. I will endeavor to enlist other gentlemen, who have
                                    influence at 
                                        Washington
                                    , in Algernon's behalf. It may be some time before relief
                                    comes, but I feel assured it will come, and come too, without detriment to his
                                    character.
                        Can you not, through your Uncle Griffin Taylor at 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    , procure a large petition to the President for Algernon's
                                    liberation?  Try it, and I will try my hand with
                                    Judge Stern & others.
                        I do not feel able to travel to 
                                        Washington
                                    , yet I will make the attempt if nothing else will do …. Be
                                    cheerful, but very prudent in your conversation. Remember the
                                    times are out of joint, and neither party in the North or South will tolerate the
                                    least sympathy for the opposition.
                     
                  
               
                
            (18)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Mary M. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana 
                           
                                    September 16, 1861
                                
                        When I get a correct understanding of the matter, I will know better, how to act. In
                                    the meantime I will endeavour to get such certificates of character &
                                    letters to Mr. Lincoln as will be available. I anticipate some trouble, for the
                                    reason that the public mind is so excited that no tenderness is felt for anyone who
                                    does an act that has the least semblance of disloyalty. I do not
                                    say this because I think he is in any serious danger, but only to express the
                                    opinion that it will require time & good management to
                                    obtain his release ….
                        Algernon, in the letters which have occasioned his arrest, may have written some
                                    imprudent sentences, but I know he is not disloyal. …
                                    If Algernon would draw up a petition to the President, setting forth his reasons for
                                    writing the letters, his objects in doing so—what he intended to
                                    accomplish, &c., it would I think be of service to him….
                     
                  
               
                
            (19)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Mary M. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    October 23, 1861
                                
                        I had also made arrangements with several prominent gentlemen in this State for their
                                    interference on behalf of Algernon, & I was also expecting letters from
                                    them.
                        I had sent my pledge to Mr. Seward that Algernon was, in my opinion
                                    loyal, and that his family was also.
                        About eight o'clock last night, I was gratified to be informed by telegraph
                                    that "an order had been issued for the discharge of A. S.
                                    Sullivan." I presume therefore he is today with you & Gordie.
                        I hope Algernon will make no objections to taking the prescribed
                                    oath. It binds him to do nothing more than every good citizen should do.
                        Although he is discharged from confinement, he is
                                    not yet out of danger. He may still be indicted.
                                    If he should be indicted it may be a serious matter with him. Mr. Seward insists
                                    that his correspondence with men in the South was treasonable.
                                    Tell Algernon that he must not contend with the Government. The
                                    odds are too great—he would be crushed.
                        I hope that Algernon and yourself will be careful not to say anything that can be
                                    construed into sympathy with the Confederates. The Government has a heavy burden to
                                    bear—the rebellion is a gigantic one, and what the result may or will be
                                    God only knows.  In the South, if a person (man
                                    or woman) expresses an attachment for the Union, he or she is hunted, punished,
                                    abused, imprisoned or murdered. This conduct produces a corresponding feeling in the
                                    North, and the time is rapidly approaching when all in the North who do not avow
                                    themselves in favor of suppressing the rebellion, will be considered and treated as favouring it.
                        Why a person should not give his support to the Government that protects him,
                                    although he may not approve its policy in all things, I cannot
                                    understand….
                        Jerry is with his regiment in Western 
                                        Virginia
                                    . He has been in every battle that has been fought near Cheat Mountain,
                                    since his arrival there…. I have heard nothing from my son, T. L.
                                    Sullivan, since June last. No communication with the seceded states. What has become
                                    of him I know not.
                     
                  
               
                
            (20)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    November 4, 1861
                                
                        I am extremely anxious to know from yourself what were the causes and circumstances
                                    of your arrest. Give them to me as much in detail as you conveniently can.
                        I cannot believe that you desire the success of the Southern Confederacy. You cannot,
                                    it seems to me, desire the success of an attempt to destroy not only our Govt. (the
                                    Government under which you live) but our nationality.
                        Let your whole deportment & conversation show that you are a
                                        loyal man. The support of Mr. Lincoln or Mr. Seward's policy is
                                    not necessary to loyalty. But captious efforts to thwart honest efforts to put down
                                    the rebellion, do look a little that way. Be honest, therefore, in the sight of God,
                                    in giving a sincere support to the constitutionally organized government. Take a
                                    stand by the side of such men as Gen. Dix and you will be right, that is, if I
                                    understand him.
                        … I wish to say again … that you are not out of
                                        danger. Mr. Seward may yet have you indicted & with his power
                                    & patronage the odds against you would be fearful. Be therefore very prudent.
                        
                        I think you ought to write a kind letter to Mr. Harris for the part he took in yr
                                    liberation….
                        I have not heard from Jerry for about a month. He was well when I last heard from
                                    him. He was about to go to 
                                        Washington
                                     to interfere for you, if he could have obtained leave, &
                                    probably would have gone if you had not been liberated.
                        I have not heard from Tom since he left here in June last. He was a strong Union Whig, and I am afraid he has been dealt harshly with by the
                                    rebels of 
                                        Tennessee
                                    ….
                     
                  
               
                
            (21)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    December 9, 1861
                                
                        Tell me candidly,—have your business & character suffered by the
                                    late events between you and the Government? …
                        
                        I can't conceive why you or any other man can look upon this rebellion (or
                                    Civil War if you will have it so) but with the utmost horror and detestation. The
                                    disturbing cause is well understood, and the time has come for its removal, at least
                                    the signs of the times indicate something like it. It may be that God will afflict
                                    us with war, pestilence & famine for a quarter of a century to come, but,
                                    the end will be the abolition of slavery. When that is accomplished we can be a
                                    united people.
                        We have petted the South too much. We have even licked the boots of
                                    her great men. It is time for us to show them that we are their equals at least. My
                                    son, your duty as a good citizen & your duty to God require you to sustain
                                    the Government in its present struggle. You cannot be a happy man and
                                        not do so.
                        
                        Let your 
                                        Virginia
                                     relatives take their course and you take your course. While they are
                                    seeking to tear down the Govt., let it be your delight to uphold it. As to a
                                    Southern Confederacy, that is out of the question. The Northwest will never consent
                                    that the mouth of the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     shall be within foreign & hostile boundaries. The plotters of
                                    this rebellion & those actively engaged in carrying it on
                                    are entitled to no mercy. I hope you will see this matter in its true light.
                        But, as you have appeared as a counsel of the Piratemen, at the request of Southern
                                    officials, a thing which I think you had a perfect right to do & as you have
                                    suffered for it, I think you ought to be well paid for your services. But how are
                                    you to get your fee without again endangering yourself….
                     
                  
               
                
            (22)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    December 19, 1861
                                
                        I am quite surprised at the information Mr. George Taylor of 
                                        Brooklyn
                                     gave you, as to the cause of your arrest. My first impulse was to write
                                    immediately to 
                                        Washington
                                     for a copy of the letters on file, said to have been written by you
                                    & on which you were arrested. But on reflection, I thought it not prudent to
                                    do so, until I could learn exactly & fully the contents of the letters you
                                    did really write. I think it not best to meddle further with the matter unless I can
                                    be completely satisfied that you will be justified by public opinion, and held
                                    faultless in your course. We must not say or do anything that may excite the wrath
                                    of Seward at present. He is too powerful for us
                                    to contend with, and you are not now entirely free from the possibility of danger.
                                    Be prudent, and you will live down the reproach of your arrest, if any reproach
                                    attached to you.
                        It may be that during the winter we will be able to contrive a plan by which the
                                    letters may be seen & copies obtained….
                        We are awaiting the news from Ky. We have over 100,000 men in Ky. & a big fight is expected.
                        Many of the people here are not for a war with 
                                        England
                                    . I do not feel myself like submitting to her insolence….
                     
                  
               
                
            
            (23)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    April 7, 1862
                                
                        Newspapers inform me that he [Jerry] has been nominated by the presidt for Brigadier.
                                    What the result will be before the Senate I do not know. Gov. Morton has political
                                    favourites that he wd prefer to Jerry, and I feel quite certain that if he can
                                    procure Jerry's name to be withdrawn or rejected, that he wd do it,
                                    provided he could get his favourites nominated.
                        I have written to William H. Dunn on the subject….
                     
                  
               
                
            (24)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    April 19, 1862
                                
                        His [Jerry] nomination as Brigr. has not been confirmed, but he had a dispatch
                                    yesterday from Wm. M. Dunn saying that he felt confident it would be. There is still
                                    some doubt however growing out of the fact that the Senate is not inclined to make
                                    so many Brigadiers….
                        This deplorable rebellion is filling the country with wounded & disabled
                                    soldiers. All of our western towns are crowded with them—I mean the river
                                    towns. We are expecting 100 here today. Nurses, physicians, and comforts for the
                                    sick & wounded have been provided by the Citizens. A large number of ladies
                                    met at our house a few days ago & made … a large supply of
                                    shirts, drawers, pillow cases, mattrasses [sic.], etc. etc. for
                                    them. They come principally from the army at Pittsburg, 
                                        Tennessee
                                    . The fight at 
                                        Shiloh
                                     (as it is now called) was a bloody one. The Indiana troops behaved
                                    nobly….
                     
                  
               
                
            (25)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    September 11, 1862
                                
                        We are all very well, but the town is in great excitement. Guerillas are in Trimble
                                    County, Ky. (just opposite this place) and it is said they can muster 1000 men. We
                                    are drilling here every day from 3 to 5 o'c p.m. all places of business
                                    closed. We are not yet under martial law to the fullest extent but will probably, in
                                    a few days. The object of the Guerrillas seems to be to supply themselves with
                                    horses & arms and, to some extent provisions. A few nights ago they helped
                                    themselves to some horses belonging to our old friend George Fearn, residing in
                                    Hunters Bottom. Fearn has the reputation of being a Union man, therefore is
                                    plundered & robbed. I do not much fear an attack in force
                                    on 
                                        Madison
                                    , though it is possible we may receive a flying visit from the
                                    scoundrels….
                        In Western Virga. he [Jerry] had the reputation of being the fighting
                                        colonel,—I hope he will, when duty calls him to it, be the
                                    fighting Genl….
                     
                  
               
                
            
            (26)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    July 10, 1863
                                
                        I see by the papers that the draft is to commence in N.Y. next Monday. I write now to
                                    inquire whether you are prepared for it. Can you get a commission of some kind from
                                    Gov. Seymour? I would be glad to know that you are doing something to crush this
                                    rebellion.
                        If however you are drafted to shoulder the musket I do not feel that you have the
                                    physical strength to endure a campaign. I can assist you to the amt of
                                    $100 or possibly $150.00 in money towards hiring a
                                    substitute….
                        You have heard of the Morgan raid into this State. I think he will be sorry he came,
                                    though for a few days he may do much damage. I have no fear of trouble at 
                                        Madison
                                    ….
                     
                  
               
                
            (27)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    July 25, 1863
                                
                        I congratulate you on your escape from the mob. I hope nothing has since happened to
                                    yr. injury or prejudice. I rejoice that the mob was put down. If Fernando Wood were
                                    put down with it, it wd. be a matter also to be rejoiced at. The Government is
                                    determined, I learn, to enforce the draft in N.Y. If it does not enforce
                                    it,—then we have no Government. Let the cannon
                                    & the bayonet be used freely, if necessary, & then
                                    we shall feel that our lives & property are secure. I hope that Gov. Seymour
                                    and "his friends" will acquiesce….
                        Morgan …. came within 13 miles of 
                                        Madison
                                     & probably wd. have come here had he not heard that there were
                                    about 4000 men here & two or three gunboats. I am glad he did not favor us
                                    with a visit, for while it might have been his destruction, it might have been the
                                    destruction of 
                                        Madison
                                     also….
                     
                  
               
                
            (28)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Algernon S. Sullivan
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                    June 23, 1864
                                
                        I hope Grant will soon destroy Lee's army and so put an end to the
                                    rebellion—at least to the horrors of it. If he should fail to do so,
                                    universal anarchy will be the consequence….
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            AN EARLY FRENCH ACCOUNT OF RAPPITE SETTLEMENTS
            Edited by EDWARD D. SEEBER
            
            In 1817, the French traveler Edouard de Montulé undertook an extensive tour of the 
                        United States
                    , going from 
                        New Orleans
                     to Niagara Falls by way of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . His journal includes a description of the town of Harmony, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , recently abandoned by George Rapp and his followers, and also a brief remark on the
                    contemporary Rappite settlement on the 
                        Wabash
                     River, in Indiana.1 This latter narration is entirely omitted in
                    the one and only English translation of the Voyage, published in 
                        London
                     in 1821;2 the passage concerning the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     town is included, but the translation is somewhat unfaithful and inaccurate.
            This account offers little that is new beyond the facts presented by Lockwood,3
                        Duss,4 and others; yet its importance among the rare contemporary notices of
                    the Indiana Rappites would seem to justify the following translation. For the purpose of comparison,
                    I give first the passage from the 1821 translation: 
                        On quitting Pitzburg I traversed Alleghany, taking the road to 
                                Franklin
                            . Having proceeded some miles, I met two travellers, with whom I breakfasted, at
                            an inn standing at the branching off of two roads, the one conducting to 
                                Franklin
                            , the other through Mercer; we chose the latter, and, although the longest, we
                            were amply repaid, by arriving to dine at a little town which delighted me, containing an
                            establishment without exception the most perfect that I have seen in America, and the only
                            one in which individual industry is directed to the general good. This town is called
                            Harmony, is regular, and built in the German style, in the centre of a fine valley. The
                            houses are of brick, and the roofs thatched. From this place I proceeded alone, entering a
                            dark forest, through which I advanced twelve miles without perceiving the trace of an
                            habitation. I this day performed thirty-six miles and gained the town of
                                Mercer….5
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  1
                        Voyage en Amérique, en Italie, en Sicile et en égypte,
                            pendant les années 1816, 1817, 1818, et 1819 (2 vols., 
                            Paris
                         1821), I, 251–52.
               
                  2 According to Sabin, the same version forms part vi of the fifth volume
                        of Sir Richard Phillips' New Voyages and Travels (9 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1819–23).
               
                  3 George B. Lockwood, The 
                                New Harmony
                             Movement (
                            New York
                        , 1905).
               
                  4 John S. Duss, George Rapp and His Associates (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1914).
               
                  5 E. Montule [sic.], A Voyage to North
                            America and the West Indies, in 1817 (
                            London
                        , Printed for Sir Richard Phillips and Co., 1821), 86. The paragraph, undated, is
                        included in Letter XIX.
            
            
            In the following translation from the French, I have kept the original spelling of place names, and
                    added the footnotes: 
            LETTER XX
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Buffaloe, 
                           
                                    27 July 1817.
                                
                        Leaving Pitzburg, I crossed the Allégany, and took the road to Fort
                                    Francklin. After covering a few miles through a wild country, I met two travelers;
                                    one of them, a German, spoke French pretty well for a German. We had lunch together
                                    at a wretched inn, located at the fork of two roads, both of which led to Erie, one
                                    by way of Francklin, the other by Mercer. We took the latter, and arrived at dinner
                                    time in a pretty little town whose aspect delighted me, and amply consoled me for
                                    having taken the longer route. This settlement, which is beyond a doubt the finest
                                    of its kind that I have seen in the interior of America, is the only one in which
                                    individual enterprise has been directed toward the common good. This town is named
                                    Harmony. It is regular, and built in the German manner, in the midst of a superb
                                    valley. The houses are of brick, and the garrets have thatched roofs. An immense
                                    orchard, planted in quincuncial fashion, lies to the rear as far as the little river
                                    which nearly encircles the valley. Several years before, seven or eight hundred
                                    Germans of a peculiar sect had followed a clergyman, who was their leader, into this
                                    region. At first, nothing disturbed them in their rites and ceremonials: everything
                                    was held in common among them; the work, as well, was equally apportioned. They
                                    formed a sort of happy little monarchy; they were beginning successfully to
                                    cultivate grapes on a knoll which rises in the middle of the valley, when, for
                                    reasons unknown, the leader suddenly sold the holdings for 500,000 francs,6 and went off with his followers to clear another piece of land
                                    on the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , which flows in the west and empties much farther down, to the south,
                                    into the 
                                        Ohio
                                    . It is believed that the population having increased in the vicinity,
                                    he feared lest his proselytes eventually lose something of the strictness of the
                                    principles that he had inculcated in them. These lands, in the hands of divers
                                    individuals, are deteriorating daily. Independently of the sale he had made, the
                                    leader had reserved for himself several parcels, for the sale of which he had sent
                                    his son,76 whom I saw at the inn.
                        My traveling companion, having come to buy a piece of this land, stopped there. I
                                    continued on my journey alone ….
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  6 The amount is correct. In 1815 Rapp was informed in a letter from his
                        son, regarding the sale of the property, that "a man named Ziegler has bought it for a
                        hundred thousand dollars." Duss, George Rapp and His Associates, 12.
               
                  7 Young Frederick Reichert, a compatriot and early associate of
                        "Father" Rapp, became the latter's adopted son, and changed his
                        surname. To him were entrusted the business affairs of the society, which he managed with great
                        acumen.
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        . Compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin Carter. Vol. IX, The
                        Territory of Orleans, 1803–1812. (
                        Washington
                    : Government Printing Office, 1940. Pp. vii, 1092. $2.50.)
            This stout volume is a welcome addition to the valuable series on the territories of the 
                        United States
                    . It assembles in convenient form much pertinent documentary material not readily
                    available elsewhere on the history of the Territory of Orleans. Beginning with the elaborate
                    preparations made by the 
                        United States
                     for taking possession of the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase in the face of avowed Spanish opposition, the chief events in the history of
                    the Territory of Orleans are traced through the different stages of territorial government until it
                    emerges as the new state of 
                        Louisiana
                     in 1812.
            Some of the topics upon which the volume contains a mass of material are: the events of the transfer
                    of 
                        Louisiana
                     from 
                        France
                     to the 
                        United States
                    ; the difficulties involved in the establishment of the American system of territorial
                    and local government, complicated by the desire of the native Creoles for immediate statehood and
                    their opposition to new forms of administration with which they were unfamiliar; the conflict
                    between the old and new systems of jurisprudence, and the consequent problems involved in
                    establishing the territorial judiciary according to the American pattern which was strange to the
                    bulk of the population; the strained relations between 
                        Spain
                     and the 
                        United States
                     over the transfer, and the anxiety of Governor Claiborne over the lingering of Spanish
                    officials in 
                        New Orleans
                     under various pretexts; the division of the new American residents into two political
                    factions, each seeking to enlist the support of the Creoles in an attempt to control the territorial
                    administration; the attempt to settle the vexing question of land titles and to establish the
                    rectangular system of land survey; the organization of the territorial militia; the extension of the 
                        United States
                     postal system to the territory and the improvement of postal communication with other
                    parts of the nation; the problem of defense of the territory against the threat of Spanish
                    encroachment from 
                        Texas
                     and internal commotions, such as the Kemper Insurrection, the Burr Conspiracy,  and the West 
                        Florida
                     Revolution of 1810; the attempt to establish a system of free public schools along the
                    lines of Jefferson's ideas, in a region where the mass of the population had little or no
                    interest in such a forward-looking plan; the movement for statehood and its successful culmination
                    in 1812.
            There is also much material for the biographer in the lists of civil and military officials in the
                    territory as well as in other documents printed in the volume. The development of commerce and
                    internal improvement, the fear of slave insurrections and the anxiety as to the loyalty of the free
                    people of color, the dissatisfaction of the natives with the prohibition of the foreign slave trade
                    at a time when other parts of the 
                        United States
                     were still free to import slaves, the difficulty of preventing smuggling and the
                    enforcement of the Embargo Act, the high cost of living in 
                        New Orleans
                     as compared with other sections of the 
                        United States
                    , and a host of other interesting topics are here represented in a variety of documents.
            While by no means all the manuscript materials available on the history of the Territory of Orleans
                    are contained in this volume, the footnotes locate a vast store of other manuscript materials which
                    the thorough researcher will wish to consult. The information contained in the ample footnotes may,
                    however, be scant consolation for the student who is not in a position to gain access to the sources
                    therein cited.
            The printers have done an excellent job and have produced an attractive volume. There is a very
                    complete index. But the chief defect in the work is the failure of those transcribing the documents
                    to decipher correctly a large number of proper names. The reviewer has found more than fifty
                    instances of such incorrect transcriptions, all of which could easily have been detected by anyone
                    reasonably familiar with the family names in 
                        Louisiana
                    . However, this minor defect does not materially detract from the intrinsic worth of the
                    volume as a whole.
            Walter Prichard, 
                        Louisiana
                     State University
         
         
         
            
               Fightin' Joe Wheeler. By John P. Dyer. (
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, University, 
                        Louisiana
                    , 1941. Pp. xii, 417. Illustrated, $3.00.)
            This is a volume in the excellent Southern Biography Series, edited by Dean Wendell H. Stephenson and
                    Fred C. Cole of 
                        Louisiana
                     State University. General Wheeler furnished an interesting subject for a biography, and
                    he has fortunately fallen into good hands. The narrative flows smoothly, the style of the author is
                    unusually good, and the story is well organized. General Wheeler won renown in the Civil War, though
                    he was only in his twenty-ninth year when the conflict ended. His great successes as a cavalry
                    leader in the "Brothers' War," his capture along with Jefferson Davis in
                    the spring of 1865, his honorable career in the national House of Representatives, and his part in
                    the Spanish American War, when more than sixty years of age, made his life colorful.
            The long public career of Joseph Wheeler and his varied activities made it necessary for the author
                    to cover much material of different kinds and different periods. His notes and bibliography reveal
                    that his preparation for the biography was extensive. He was fortunate in having access to valuable
                    manuscript and printed sources, and was also aided by information contained in a number of scholarly
                    monographs. He has endeavored to acquaint himself with the wide range of geographical data necessary
                    to an understanding of the scattered campaigns engaged in by Wheeler during the Civil War. In some
                    instances, his references to geography are not very accurate, in others they are lacking in clarity.
                    One would judge from his map (opposite p. 88) that Powells River starts at 
                        Cumberland Gap
                    . Further, this map would be much better if additional rivers and mountain ranges had
                    been added. The following sentence is not easily understood by one who knows the geography of east 
                        Tennessee
                    , and cannot help one who does not know it well: "Therefore he [Wheeler]
                    concluded it would be better to move northeastward up the river [
                        Tennessee
                    ] to its headwaters, the Little 
                        Tennessee
                     and Clinch rivers, cross them, and then ride southward again." Moving up the
                    left bank of the 
                        Tennessee
                    , one could not cross the Little 
                        Tennessee
                     and the Clinch rivers without crossing the 
                        Tennessee
                     River between the two. Further, it does not seem that Wheeler  could be said to have reached the "headwaters" of the 
                        Tennessee
                     in such a movement. The 
                        
                            Washington
                        
                     mentioned on page two hundred thirty-one was no doubt the Georgia town of that name, but, for
                    the sake of clearness, the word 
                        
                            Georgia
                        
                     should have been inserted after 
                  
                            Washington
                        . These questions relative to geography do not mean that the biography is not
                    one of high quality. It should commend itself to a wide circle of readers of historical works in
                    addition to persons interested in Southern history.
            William O. Lynch
         
         
            
               The Foundations of 
                            Ohio
                        . By Beverley W. Bond, Jr. Volume I of The History of the State of 
                            Ohio
                        , 6 vols. Edited by Carl Wittke. (
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society, 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , 1941. Pp.
                    xix, 507. Maps and illustrations.)
            With the appearance of this volume there begins the fulfillment of the previous announcement of the
                    six-volume History of the State of 
                            Ohio
                        
                to be published under the auspices of the 
                        Ohio
                     Archaeological and Historical Society. The series is to represent the cooperation of a
                    number of prominent historians in 
                        Ohio
                    . This volume, which treats the earliest period of the history of 
                        Ohio
                    , is to be followed by The Frontier State: 1803–1825, by
                    William T. Utter; The Passing of the Frontier, 1825–1850, by Francis P.
                    Weisenburger; The Civil War Era: 1850–1873, by Eugene H. Roseboom; 
                  
                            Ohio
                        : 1873–1900, by Philip D. 
                        Jordan
                    ; and 
                  
                            Ohio
                         in the Twentieth Century, by a number of scholars under the editorship of
                    Harlow Lindley. The general editor is Dean Carl Wittke, of Oberlin College. When completed it should
                    give 
                        Ohio
                     a comprehensive and a scholarly history.
            The connections between Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     have been close from the days of exploration and settlement to those of more modern
                    systems of transportation, travel, and communication. It is unnecessary, therefore, to justify a
                    review of this series in a historical publication of Indiana. Some of the chapters of this volume
                    could almost be incorporated into a history of Indiana with only slight modifications. Since 
                        Illinois
                     has her five-volume history and 
                        Ohio
                     is soon to have a similarly extensive work, the historians of Indiana will, no doubt,
                    be thinking of the possibility of securing such an adequate history of their state.
            
            The volume begins with a description of the geographical foundation of the 
                        Ohio
                     Country, particularly as it is related to glaciers, resources, and Indian
                    thoroughfares. The discussion is restrained in harmony with the conclusion that 
                        Ohio
                     is a political rather than a geographical unit. The second chapter is unique among the
                    other chapters for it is not the work of Professor Bond, but of Henry Clyde Shetrone, who is highly
                    qualified to write on "The 
                        Ohio
                     Aborigines." Professor Bond then resumes his task by describing the opening of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     Country to Europeans by the French, the crossing of the Appalachians by the English fur
                    traders, who engaged the French in serious competition, and the struggle resulting from this
                    competition. The English overthrew the French, but in their efforts to make their victory secure
                    they angered the colonists. The claims of the colonies to western lands were ignored in the effort
                    to conciliate the Indians. The western phases of the Revolution formed another struggle for the
                    interior, which substituted American control for the recently established control by the English,
                    but the retention of the western posts by the latter prevented the full realization of the
                    American's victory. It became necessary to formulate with considerable skill and after
                    preliminary errors several phases of national policy in order that the new nation might reap the
                    benefits of its struggle for independence. These included the passage of the land act of 1785, the
                    adoption of the Northwest Ordinance of 1787, negotiations with the Indians, the fortification of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley, and the waging of Indian campaigns in the Old Northwest. The interrelations of
                    these policies and the effect of the spread of settlement as a result of three major streams of
                    migration are skillfully narrated. In the treatment of the territorial period the author has not
                    hesitated to criticise measures that have come to be regarded traditionally as nearly flawless. He
                    points out that the land act of 1785 aided the speculators and that it was necessary to modify it
                    before it could satisfy the needs of the poorer settlers. He also observed that the Ordinance of
                    1787 restricted the franchise to landowners and, thereby, denied to many a part in the government
                    under which they lived. The successes and failures of the territorial government, particularly in
                    the early period when the country was governed by a governor and three judges, are related with
                    justice  to both sides of the controversy. He realizes that the
                    territorial government was not entirely successful, that St. Clair had his limitations, but feels
                    that he made a fairly successful governor. The defeat of the Indians and the surrender of the
                    Northwest posts by the British solved the Indian problem for the time, and this led to rapidly
                    increasing settlement. The growth of population and the controversy with the governor in turn
                    produced the statehood movement. The volume ends with a narration of the struggle to escape the
                    restrictions of territorial government.
            The work forms an important contribution to the historical literature of the Old Northwest, and
                    unfavorable criticism must deal with a few minor points. It contains a large number of excellent
                    maps, many of them being reproductions of early maps, but unfortunately almost every one is so
                    small, page size or less, that their usefulness is open to question. It would seem preferable to
                    have included fewer maps and to have enlarged them to a more practical size. Very few errors were
                    noticed. The expression "gone glimmering" (p. 84) leaves something to be desired,
                    while the statement about sending a "strong French force to capture Montreal" in
                    1756 does not make sense (p.169). Questions might be raised about the omission of events which seem
                    as relevant to the story as many points that are included, such as the lack of a reference to the
                    establishment of the French settlements in the 
                        Illinois
                     Country since the exploration of the area was described in some detail. More might have
                    been incorporated about the movement of population through the Appalachian Valley and along the
                    Wilderness Road as a counterbalance to the attention paid to the New 
                        England
                     migration. Footnotes are quite numerous and citations to the important works on many
                    points are given, but a bibliography is not included, recent works are not very numerous among the
                    citations, and periodical literature seems not to have been noted very frequently. One of the most
                    important features of such a work should be the listing, either in the footnotes or the bibliography
                    or both, of the best authorities on all phases of the subject. The lack of a bibliography in this
                    instance makes the few failures to cite important pieces of historical literature all the more
                    serious.
            It must be repeated that these minor imperfections do  not spoil
                    the quality of this excellent book. The author has set a high standard and the authors of the other
                    volumes will do well to equal the first. It is a welcome addition to the literature of the Middle
                    West, and all involved in its production are to be congratulated.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               The Voyageur's Highway: 
                            Minnesota
                        's Border Lake Land. By Grace Lee Nute, curator of manuscripts, 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society. (
                        St. Paul
                    , The 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, 1941. Pp. xiii, 113. Illustrations, maps. Paper, $.50.)
            This is a story of the border country between 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                     through which the international boundary passes on its way from Lake Superior to the
                    Lake of the Woods. Its publication was made possible by an anonymous member of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society and the proceeds from the sale of the book are to become the nucleus
                    of a special fund to be devoted to the publication of material not within the scope of the magazine,
                        
                  
                            Minnesota
                         History. The book is both popular and scholarly.
         
         
            
               The History of Saint Thomas Parish, 
                            Ann Arbor
                        . By Louis William Doll. (
                  Ann
                        Arbor, Michigan
               , c. by St.
                    Thomas Church, 1941. Pp. x, 291. Illustrations. $2.50.)
            An interesting type of local history is this account of a parish of the Catholic Church. It is
                    written in thirteen chapters, ten of which are devoted to the work of a particular priest in the
                    parish. A special chapter relates the athletic work of the church. Some of the church records are
                    printed in eight appendices. Five pages are devoted to a bibliography. The writer is a trained
                    historian and a member of the staff of the Library of the University of 
                        Michigan
                    .
         
         
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly. L, No. 1, January-March, 1941,
                    is called the Maumee Valley International Historical Convention Number. It contains a historic map
                    of the Maumee Valley and a number of articles by prominent historians on various phases of  the Valley's history. Since the Maumee River is formed
                    in northeastern Indiana this issue of the Quarterly has special interest for
                    readers of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            A critical evaluation of the work of an Indiana historian, Edward Eggleston, is found in an essay
                    included in a little volume entitled: Historiography and Urbanization, Essays in
                        American History in Honor of W. Stull Holt, edited by Eric F. Goldman, and published by The
                    Johns Hopkins Press (
                        Baltimore
                    , 1941). He concludes that Eggleston caught the vision of social history when only John
                    Bach McMaster was writing with such a point of view. "Eggleston … conceived
                    history in terms of the evolution of society and the origin of institutions, social groups, customs,
                    and ideas and not in terms of outstanding individuals (p. 202)." The author, Charles
                    Hirschfeld, believes, however, that Eggleston began too late in life, did not have the physical
                    energy, or the personality and ability to convert his vision into reality. His Beginners of a Nation is regarded as a better piece of work than his Transit
                        of Civilization, which is described as "almost a death-bed effort to preserve in
                    print the results of scholarly labors which a dying author could not bear to see moulder in the
                    oblivion of manuscript literary remains (p. 208)." It is also suggested that the industrial
                    revolution in the 
                        United States
                     brought changes which Eggleston was not prepared to accept, that his world was the
                    world of the pioneers.
            In the spring of this year, the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Press of 
                        Oxford
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , brought out an illustrated biography, 
                  
                            Quaker
                         Lady ("The Story of Charity Lynch and her People"), by Mrs.
                    Alta Harvey Heiser. This well printed volume of two hundred seventy-three pages, which sells for
                    $3.00, is another good book to the credit of the managers of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Press. Charity Hasket was born in 
                        South Carolina
                     in 1779. She was a daughter of Isaac and Lydia (Elliott) Hasket. A few years after her
                    marriage to Isaiah Lynch and shortly before the turn of the century, the young couple migrated with
                    their two small children to 
                        Ohio
                    . Here the "
                        Quaker
                     Lady" lived until her death in 1848, playing her part in the first state of
                    the Old Northwest as it passed through the pioneer stage and became a dynamic state in  the Union. The story of this gentle and refined woman and her family is
                    simply told. Such biographies are welcome, as students of history need to know more about the lives
                    of people who were not public figures.
            A new type of book has appeared that is of particular interest to teachers of the literature of the 
                        United States
                    . It is also interesting to historians for it presents an anthology of purely literary
                    works against the "magnificent panorama" of 
                        United States
                     history as told in other important documents. The editors of this work, American Issues, are two members of the English staff at 
                        Princeton
                     University, Willard Thorp and Carlos Baker, and Merle Curti, professor of history at
                    Teachers College, 
                        Columbia
                    . The first volume presents a series of selections from speeches, reports, pamphlets,
                    letters and autobiographies, "which best elucidate the dominant issues at work in American
                    Society." It is called The Social Record, although it might with equal
                    appropriateness be called the historical record. The second volume, The Literary
                        Record, contains somewhat longer selections from fewer American authors than the more usual
                    work of its kind. It will be interesting to note the results of this closer coordination of
                    literature and history.
         
         
            HISTORICAL MEETINGS OF IMPORTANCE
            During the next few months there will be held a number of historical meetings of interest to many
                    readers of the Indiana Magazine of History. Two of these will be held in Indiana,
                    two in neighboring states not far removed from Indiana, and another at a somewhat greater distance.
                    At these meetings will gather historians and other interested persons, papers will be read and
                    discussed, and friendships will be made and renewed. Individuals interested in history, particularly
                    those who are teaching history in the high schools, colleges, and universities, should find
                    attendance at one or more of these gatherings quite profitable. Northern Indiana is not far from 
                        Chicago
                     where the American Historical Association, the most important organization of the
                    historical profession in this country, will hold its sessions. Southern Indiana is also not far from 
                        Lexington
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , where the members of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Historical Association  will assemble. This
                    organization makes an especial appeal to persons interested in Western History. Indianans should
                    take advantage of these and the other meetings described in the following paragraphs.
            The Southern Historical Association will meet at 
                        Atlanta
                    , Georgia, at the Biltmore Hotel, November 6 to 8, 1941. At the morning session,
                    November 7, William O. Lynch of Indiana University, the retiring editor of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, will read a paper on "The South and Its History."
                    George C. Osborne, of Berry College, Mt. Berry, Georgia, and Arndt M. Stickles, of Western 
                        Kentucky
                     State Teachers College, Bowling Green, 
                        Kentucky
                    , who were granted doctor's degrees by Indiana University, will also read
                    papers. The Association is primarily interested in the History of the South, but it is also offering
                    programs on European and Latin-American History at this meeting.
            The Twenty-first Annual Meeting of the National Council for the Social Studies will assemble in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , November 20 to 22, 1941, at the Claypool Hotel. This organization constitutes the
                    official social studies department of the National Education Association and enjoys the cooperation
                    of the American Historical Association, the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Historical Association, and the American Political Science Association. With the
                    collaboration of the American Historical Association it publishes the monthly magazine, Social Education. The meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                     will be characterized by addresses on current topics by men of national prominence,
                    discussion groups concerned with major areas of social studies instruction, and smaller seminar
                    groups devoted to the study of classroom problems.
            The Twenty-third Annual Indiana History Conference, which will be held at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 12 and 13, is described by Doctor Coleman in his statement on pages
                    255–56. This will probably be of greater interest to members of the Indiana Historical
                    Society than any of the other meetings.
            The annual meeting of the American Historical Association is to be held the latter part of December
                    at 
                        Chicago
                    . Information of its program has not been received. Members of the historical profession
                    from all parts of the nation will attend this meeting, which is usually attended also by many public
                    school teachers in the immediate vicinity.
            The 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Historical Association will hold  its annual
                    meeting at 
                        Lexington
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , in the spring of 1942. Further comment on this meeting may be made in a later number
                    of the Magazine.
            
         
         
            CONTRIBUTORS
            Irving McKee is an instructor of English at Culver Military Academy. He has made a previous
                    contribution to the Indiana Magazine of History (March, 1939) which has been
                    expanded to book length and has been published by the Indiana Historical Society under the title,
                        The Trail of Death: Letters of Benjamin Marie Petit. He is now at work on a
                    biography of Lew Wallace which he hopes to complete next year. He holds the Bachelor's,
                    Master's, and Doctor's degrees from Yale University.
            Joseph Herman Schauinger is a member of the staff of the General Library, University of 
                        Michigan
                    , in the Circulation Department. He has contributed a previous article to the 
                  
                            North Carolina
                         Historical Review (April, 1941). He received the Bachelor's and
                    Master's degrees from Indiana University and the Ph. D. in American History from 
                        Georgetown
                     University, 
                        Washington
                    , D. C.
            Alden Cutshall is a member of the staff of the Department of Geography and Geology of the University
                    of 
                        Illinois
                    . This last summer he taught at Ball State Teachers College, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana. He is a graduate of Eastern 
                        Illinois
                     State Teachers College. He received his Master's degree from the University of 
                        Illinois
                     and his Doctorate from 
                        Ohio
                     State University.
            Elliott R. Tibbets is a citizen of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and an insurance agent.
            Miss Willie D. Halsell is a graduate student in history at Johns Hopkins University.
            Edward D. Seeber is an associate professor in the French department of Indiana University. He
                    received his Doctor's degree from Johns Hopkins University.
            Doctor Christopher B. Coleman is the Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society and Director of the
                    Indiana State Library.
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            The attitude of cordiality, of good wishes, and of indulgence of those little things that accompany
                    newness, which your new editor has found everywhere, is deeply appreciated. He hopes that it will
                    continue and that it will survive the many failures and defects of his work in this new position.
                    Now that this issue is nearly ready for the press, an effort will be made to acknowledge the many
                    communications which have been received during the past weeks when all attention was devoted to more
                    immediate tasks.
            Various questions have been asked about the policies of the new editor. The first policy will be that
                    of learning how to edit the Magazine as it has been edited. Consequently there
                    will not be any important immediate changes nor any radical departures or thoughtless deviations
                    from the past. When the business at hand is more fully understood there will be time enough to think
                    about changes. The work of the previous editors is definitely appreciated and the first task is to
                    do as well as they have done. That cannot be accomplished, however, without striving at the same
                    time to make the Magazine better. Undoubtedly each of them strove constantly to
                    make improvements, and therefore, to do as well means to try to do better. It is to be hoped that as
                    time passes evidences of this effort will appear. Suggestions will always be appreciated whether it
                    is possible to adopt them or not. Criticism, whether favorable or unfavorable, will also be welcome.
            There is very real need of cooperation from subscribers and friends generally. More and better papers
                    are needed, and this is not intended to cast reflections upon those that have been published.
                    Additional subscriptions are needed badly, for the Magazine is expected to be a
                    self-supporting institution, and it is already obvious that its income is not sufficient. It is
                    hoped that your cordiality and good wishes will not only continue but that they may be converted
                    into even more tangible things.
            A particular word of appreciation is due to our immediate predecessor, Professor William O. Lynch.
                    His acquaintance was made fifteen years ago, and for that many years he has not failed to help, to
                    advise, and to encourage. After a time it was discovered that Professor Lynch was  extending the same kindness to a considerable number of young men whom
                    he referred to as "his boys." It is fairly common in the teaching profession for a
                    teacher to look after the welfare of his students, but Professor Lynch did not make any
                    discrimination between his students and other students. If help was needed and he could give it,
                    that was sufficient. For that reason he is looked upon as an academic father by a large number of
                    younger men in the historical profession. The present editor was never in a class taught by
                    Professor Lynch, but it is not an exaggeration to say that no one has been such a constant and
                    consistent friend. He likes to think of himself as one of the men that Professor Lynch calls
                    "his boys." In the editing of this issue this friendship has been drawn upon as a
                    never failing source of help. It is to be hoped that it will not seem necessary to bother him so
                    much in the future, but it is also our sincere wish that he will continue for many years his active
                    interest in the Magazine. Many friends have written to him to express their
                    appreciation of his work, and these letters are such that they would make any man happy. There are,
                    no doubt, many others that have not proceeded beyond the realm of good intentions. We know that we
                    express the feelings of the readers of the Magazine when we wish for Professor
                    Lynch many additional years of happiness and achievement.
         
         
         
            Genealogical Section
            SPECIAL GENEALOGICAL COLLECTIONS AND RECORDS IN THE INDIANA STATE LIBRARY
            The Genealogy Section of the Indiana State Library, as a separate Section, is only as old as the
                    building which now houses its library collection, but no account of its work is complete without
                    calling attention to those who, previous to 1933, were laying the foundation for its present
                    operation.
            Genealogical research has for many years been a part of the regime of the Indiana State Library. To
                    the librarians, as directors, to the Chiefs of the Indiana History and Reference Divisions, under
                    whose auspices research has been carried on, and to the Catalogue Division for its aid in the
                    classification and shelving of material, great credit is due for paving the way for the separate
                    handling of this phase of library work. Not only has the Genealogy Section inherited a fine
                    collection of material, chosen through the years with almost prophetic instinct, but the methods in
                    practice today are much the same as those of the earlier years of the library. One of the chief
                    purposes of the new Section has been to maintain the standards set for it.
            Certain agencies are contributing to an increased interest in genealogical matters. We are becoming
                    more genealogically minded, or perhaps, record-conscious. The day of the over-zealous housewife who
                    almost literally shoveled accumulations from the attic and, without discrimination, set a match to
                    them, is passing. Difficulties in obtaining age records for pension applicants, the necessity for
                    birth certificates in the industrial and defense worlds, and other conditions have shown the
                    importance of compiling and preserving records. Many of the WPA projects in operation today are
                    connected in some way with genealogical and historical records. Individuals are becoming more
                    interested in family research and it is a hopeful sign that the percentage of young people using the
                    Genealogy Library is far beyond what one might expect it to be.
            From time to time the Indiana Magazine of History has published lists of material
                    which is being added to the Genealogy Library. It is the purpose of this article to call attention
                    to the many special collections and records that are being placed in the library, hoping thus to
                    stimulate an  even greater interest in making the Genealogy
                    Section a repository for such important material.
            For many years the genealogy committees of the local chapters of the Daughters of the American
                    Revolution in Indiana have been collecting and compiling records of a vital nature. Their custom has
                    been to make three copies of all such compilations, one for the chapter itself, one for the D. A. R.
                    Library in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., and one for the Indiana State Library. In this way the Genealogy Section is
                    accumulating a large collection of Family Bible records, marriage and cemetery records, some court
                    records, and many lineage records.
            The Indiana Society of the Sons of the American Revolution has placed some valuable records,
                    miscellaneous material, and many back numbers of its magazine, to which the library now subscribes.
            The Society of Colonial Dames in the State of Indiana is placing on file, as rapidly as they are
                    being completed, the lineages of its members, and in addition is observing a beautiful custom of
                    contributing volumes in honor of deceased members. These have been taking the form of Registers of
                    the Society in the various states.
            The Indiana State Chapter of the Daughters of Founders and Patriots has shown much discrimination in
                    its gifts to the library. These include lineage books of the National Society, such important
                    publications as late editions of Burke's Peerage and Landed Gentry, some
                    special sets, and individual volumes.
            The Society of Mayflower Descendants in the State of Indiana has deposited its entire library
                    collection in the Genealogy Section (including the priceless lineage book of its members). The
                    Society of Colonial Wars has done likewise. Both of these organizations make occasional additions to
                    their collections and thus give the public the use of some valuable material on the early New
                    England and Colonial periods.
            The Indiana Historical Society, through its Committee on Pioneer Cemeteries and Churches, has been
                    doing an extensive work in its collection of cemetery records, all of which are being placed in this
                    library for preservation. Subcommittees have been appointed in nearly every county in the state and
                    at the meeting of the Indiana History Conference  in December,
                    1940, the Chairman of the committee was able to report that records from nearly one hundred
                    cemeteries in the state had been compiled during the previous year and placed in the Genealogy
                    Section of the Indiana State Library. The importance of this work is recognized when one realizes
                    that many of these cemeteries are old and almost abandoned, and that others have been affected by
                    defense projects and other conditions. One cemetery in 
                        Dearborn
                     County had to be removed on account of an extension of the levee. Plats of the graves
                    in the old cemetery, before removal, and of the new location of graves have been placed in this
                    library.
            Not only have societies and organizations been contributing in this way, but many individuals have on
                    their own account copied or compiled records. Three young men, in different sections of the state,
                    voluntarily copied cemetery records and offered to place them here. These persons afterwards became
                    members of the Indiana Historical Society's committee. A young woman of 
                        Indianapolis
                     has been engaged in the free will service of indexing cemetery records on file. In the
                    June, 1941, number of the Indiana Magazine of History, attention was called to a
                    labor of love on the part of two persons who made copies of some old marriage records recently
                    uncovered in 
                        Orange
                     County, placing one copy in the Genealogy Section.
            For the most part, these collections and records have come to the library without solicitation;
                    however, the Genealogy Section has from its very start made an effort to procure histories of
                    Indiana families and has urged each compiler of a genealogy to place one copy here, not only for
                    use, but for insurance against emergencies and vicissitudes. The response to this appeal has been
                    gratifying and these are being received in book, pamphlet, manuscript, and chart form. In this way
                    some very interesting family material has been received from the Society of Indiana Pioneers. Often
                    a history of a family of some other state, having Indiana connections, has been donated to the
                    library. Recently this library was one of eight libraries selected to receive a two-volume typed
                    manuscript copy of the genealogy of a prominent 
                        Ohio
                     family.
            It should be remembered that while much of this material is placed here with a view to preservation,
                    the greater  part of it is available for use in the library;
                    none of it can be taken from the building. All of these collections and records are entered in the
                    catalogue in the Genealogy Room. Books as a rule are shelved according to the classification rules
                    of the library. Rare books, manuscripts, and irreplaceable material are, for the most part, kept in
                    locked cases, to be used under surveillance. Occasional checking, especially of the deposits, is
                    practiced. While the Genealogy Section cannot assume unlimited responsibility against emergencies,
                    its purpose is to be on the alert as to the safety of its library collection, and it is glad to have
                    its part in housing what it is hoped will prove to be "Records that defy the tooth of
                    Time."
            Anna Poucher Librarian, Genealogy Section, Indiana State Library
         
         
         
            WANTED
            Pictures and Biographical Data of Trustees of Indiana University
            The Indiana University is trying to secure a biographical sketch and a photograph of each member of
                    its board of trustees. The work of collecting this material has been assigned to Mr. William A.
                    Alexander, Librarian. The records of the very early trustees have in some cases been very difficult
                    to secure. The following information, furnished by Mr. Alexander, indicates where assistance is
                    needed. Information may be sent to Mr. Alexander or direct to the editor of the Magazine and in either case will be deeply appreciated.
            
               Ballard, 
                            Chester
                         G.—a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1836–1839; b. 1792; d. 1858. Little is known about this man or his
                    descendants. He is referred to briefly in a history of 
                        Monroe
                     County as a prominent member of the Methodist Church. A medical history of Indiana
                    states that he was born in 
                        Wendell
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and died at Perryville, Indiana, and that he practiced medicine at 
                        Waveland
                    .
            
               Bannister, William—a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1828–1834; probably a brick and stone mason or contractor. Very
                    little is known about him. He is referred to in a history of 
                        Monroe
                     County as having built a brick enclosure with a stone foundation around the first
                    courthouse of 
                        Monroe
                     County.
            
               Blair, James—a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1828–1840; b. 1789; d. 1849. Biographical material about this man is
                    plentiful as he was a member of one of the old 
                        Monroe
                     County families. All of his descendants have been contacted, but no one seems to be
                    able to find a picture of him. He died ten years after photography was invented.
            
               Blake, Thomas Holdsworth—a trustee living in 
                        Vigo County
                    , 1829–1840; b. 1792; d. 1849. There is much biographical material concerning
                    Mr. Blake, but a picture of him has not been found although he died after the invention of
                    photography.
            
               Blake, William—a trustee living in 
                        Marion
                     County, 1829–? Practically nothing is known about this trustee. Some have
                    thought that his name was confused with that of Thomas Holdsworth Blake.
            
               
                  
                            Bloomfield
                        , Lot—a trustee living in 
                        Wayne
                     County, 1841–1842; b. 1789; d. 1847. Records of his activities in 
                        Wayne
                     County were found, but a picture is lacking although he lived eight years beyond the
                    invention of photography. It is not known that he accepted membership on the board.
            
               Borland, John—a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1835–1839. There is considerable information about Mr. Borland, but
                    a picture has not been found.
            
               Dodds, Samuel Findlay—a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1821–1830; b. 1783; d. 1834. Considerable information about Mr.
                    Dodds  has been found, including a genealogical table, but a
                    picture is lacking. The date of his death is disputed.
            
               Dorsey, Prindowell M.—a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1828–1832. Very little is known about Mr. Dorsey. It is thought that
                    he moved to 
                        Floyd County
                    , that he may have been the first mayor of New 
                        Albany
                    , and that he may have been a clergyman.
            
               Farrington, James—a trustee living in 
                        Vigo County
                    , 1835–1838; b. 1798; d. 1869. There is considerable biographical material
                    but a picture is lacking of Mr. Farrington.
            
               French, William M.—a trustee living in 
                        Clark County
                    , 1854–1858. Very little is known about Mr. French.
            
               Helwig, Jacob—a trustee living in De Kalb County, 1851–1852.
                    Very little is known about Mr. Helwig, who may not have accepted membership on the board.
            
               Howard, L. S.—a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1832–1834. Nothing is known of Mr. Howard except that he was
                    secretary of the board, 1832–1834.
            
               Irvin, George A.—a trustee living in 
                        Allen County
                    , 1861–1865; b. 1820; d. 1896. He was a teacher and Presbyterian minister,
                    and the first superintendent of schools in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Indiana. He was a graduate of 
                        Hanover
                     College and a chaplain in the Civil War.
            
               Jenkins, John M.—a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1820- ? Little is known about him. There is a brief reference in Charles
                    Blanchard, Counties of Morgan, 
                            Monroe
                        , and 
                            Brown
                        , Indiana (
                        Chicago
                    , 1884), 457, to an early physician by the name of Jenkins. Kate Milner Rabb referred to
                    him in her "Listening Post" in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, March 1, 1926.
            
               Lindley, Jonathan—a trustee living in 
                        Orange
                     County, 1820-?; b. 1756; d. 1828. Some information has been secured about him but the
                    date of his trusteeship is uncertain and a picture has not been obtained.
            
               Lowe, William M.—a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1820–1826, 1828–1829; b. 1736?; d. 1840. A picture and
                    more detailed information about this prominent lawyer and member of the first Constitutional
                    Convention is needed.
            
               McPhetridge, 
                            Milton
                        
               —a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1870–1879; b. 1801; d. 1881. A picture of this trustee is needed.
            
               Mayfield, Leroy—a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1828–1840; b. 1791; d. 1851. We have considerable biographical
                    material about this Baptist minister, who lived in Ellettsville, but we do not have a picture.
            
               
                  
                            Mitchell
                        , David Gibson—a trustee living in 
                        Harrison County
                    , 1838–1840; b. 1781; d. 1855. He was very prominent in the medical
                    profession in both 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and Indiana. He married a sister of Governor Jonathan Jennings. There should be a
                    picture of him somewhere.
            
               Nichols, Jonathan—a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1820–1838. Very little is known about this trustee, although his
                    son, Major Jonathan M. Nichols, was a prominent banker in 
                        Rockville
                    , Indiana. His grandson, Frank H. Nichols, was also a banker in 
                        Rockville
                    .
            
            
               O'Boyle, John—a trustee living in 
                        Vigo County
                    , 1858–1859. Very little is known about Mr. O'Boyle.
            
               Patton, Alfred—a trustee living in 
                        Knox
                     County, 1874–1879; d. 1885. He was the owner of the Western
                    Sun in 1876.
            
               Rawlings, Daniel—a trustee living in 
                        Monroe
                     County, 1826–1827; b. 1786; d. 1827. Nothing further is known of him or of
                    his descendants.
            
               Sawyer, 
                            Franklin
                        
               —Information has been found about a 
                        Franklin
                     F. Sawyer, but it has not been established that he was the trustee. He moved from 
                        Pike County
                     to Davies County.
            
               Strange, John T.—a trustee living in 
                        Marion
                     County, 1830–1832; b. 1789; d. 1832. Considerable is known about this
                    prominent Methodist preacher, but a picture has not been obtained.
            
               Watts, John—a trustee living in 
                        Dearborn
                     County, 1831–1834; b. 1767; d. 1834. Much is known about this prominent
                    lawyer and Baptist preacher, but a picture has not been found.
         
         
         
            GENEALOGICAL NOTES ON SOME INDIANA PIONEERS
            ELIZABETH HAYWARD
            
            Elder William McCoy, son of John and Jane (Collins) McCoy,1 was a Baptist
                    preacher for forty-seven years. He was ordained at 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, in 1843.2 From then until his death in 1891 at the age of
                    seventy-six he served as pastor of the Mill Creek Baptist Church.3 During these
                    years he preached at many other small churches scattered throughout southern Indiana, among them
                    being the churches at 
                        Salem
                    , New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Pine Grove, 
                        Memphis
                    , Livonia, New 
                        Providence
                     (now Borden), Elizabeth, New Prospect, Bethany, 
                        Charlestown
                    , Enon, Silver Creek, and 
                        Bedford
                    . It was largely a labor of love for his annual salary did not exceed
                        $450.4 William T. Stott, who knew him well, wrote: "So
                    sincere and kindly was he that he was welcome in any home in his wide circuit—whether it
                    was Baptist or not."5
            
            In the course of his ministry Elder McCoy was called upon to preach many funeral sermons. It was his
                    custom to write out the salient facts about each person at whose funeral he preached. Some of these
                    notes are now in the keeping of his granddaughter, Mrs. William Elgin Davis of Piqua, 
                        Ohio
                    . These have been examined and with Mrs. Davis' permission these abstracts
                    presented. Since Elder McCoy covered a large territory it is natural that many of Indiana's
                    first settlers should be among those whose names appear here. What makes these abstracts of
                    particular interest to students of local history and genealogy is their wealth of names, dates, and
                    places. It is even possible, in some cases, to follow the families back a generation to the section
                    of the country where they lived before they came to Indiana.
            
               Alsup—See Cummins, Joshua.
            
               Anderson, Margaret (Turner)—b. July 26, 1807, in 
                        Danville
                    , Ky.; dau. of Jacob and Betsy Turner (possibly Fusner, handwriting illegible);
            
               
                  1 Elizabeth Hayward, Family Bible Records (Ridgewood, N.
                        J., 1941), 5.
               
                  2 John McCoy, Diary, Jan. 1, 1842, to Dec. 31, 1844; in keeping of W. O.
                        McCoy, 
                            Salem
                        , Ind. See entry for Aug. 26, 1843.
               
                  3 William T. Stott, Indiana Baptist History,
                            1798–1908 (
                            Franklin
                        , Ind., 1908), 211.
               
                  4 William H. H. McCoy, "Obituary of William McCoy," The Journal and Messenger, 1891. This is an undated clipping for some time in
                        1891.
               
                  5 Stott, Indiana Baptist History, 211.
            
            
            m. Levi Anderson, Aug. 30, 1827, "2 miles South of 
                        Salem
                    , Ind.," after coming to Ind. when 16; with her husband she joined New 
                        Philadelphia
                    Baptist Church, 1848; had 2 sons and 1 dau. living in 1877 (1 dau. d. at age of 2 yr.);
                    d. June 19, 1877, probably in New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind., cause, dropsy.
            
               Baker, Anna (Drake)—b. Sept. 30, 1794; m. William Baker, Sept. 12, 1811;
                    had 4 s. and 1 dau., Anna, who was unmarried in. 1879; joined Baptist Church at New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind., in 1847; d. March 13 or 14, 1879, in New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind., cause, "a congestive chill."
            
               Baker, Anna (Trowbridge)—b. Oct. 12, 1792, in Woodford Co., Ky.; m.
                    Michael Baker, Aug. 19, 1810; had 5 sons, 2 dau. (3 living in 1878); moved to Ind., 1817; joined 
                        Salem
                     Baptist Church, 1817; transferred to Mill Creek Baptist Church, 1835; d. April 26,
                    1878, in Ind.
            
               Baker, Phoebe Jane—b. Nov. 10, 1849; dau. of David and Catherine Baker;
                    member of Bethel Baptist Church; d. Feb. 20, 1881, cause, consumption; had a brother Frank.
            
               Baker, William—b. June 11, 1790, in Rutland Co., Vt.; m. Anna Drake
                    (seen Anna Baker above), Sept. 12, 1811; served 18 months as a soldier in War of 1812; (dau. living
                    in 1880); joined Baptist Church when a youth in N.Y., member of New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind., Church at time of death; bricklayer and plasterer; failing health last 10 yrs.
                    (blindness); lived in 
                        Charlestown
                    , 
                        Lexington
                    , and New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind.; d. May 21, 1880, probably in New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind., cause, old age.
            
               Barns, Andrew—b. 1809 (figured); joined Union Church in Jennings Co.,
                    Ind., in 1842; later belonged to Elizabeth Church; d. July, 1876; survived by children.
            
               Brewer—See Nuckles, Charles.
            
               Bridge, Eliza N.—Joined Bethany Baptist Church, 1868; d. July 9,
                    "in the 24th year of her age," cause, consumption; survived by children and
                    husband.
            
               Bridgewater, Samuel—b. 1808, in Nelson, Ky.; m. Susan Stormes, 1827;
                    (His father moved to "this part of Indiana," 1814); with his wife he joined the
                    Kimberlin Creek Baptist Church when it was organized, was its sexton for 34 years; d. —
                    23, 1885, cause, cancer; survived by wife and 7 children.
            
               Buckman—See Morgan, Thomas A.
            
               Bundy, Abraham (also spelled Abram)—b. July 6, 1869; 5th son of William
                    and Sarah Jane Bundy; had 8 brothers and 4 sisters (1 brother, Thomas Jefferson Bundy, d. aged 3
                    days); joined Mill Creek Baptist Church in or near 1880; d. Aug. 16, 1881, cause, typhoid fever.
            
               Cain, John M.—b. Jan. 27, 1858; s. of Archibald and Mary Cain; joined
                    Bethany Baptist Church in 1877; d. March 14, 1882, cause, consumption.
            
               Caress—See Stalker, Eli.
            
               Carr, Alonzo—b. about 1848 (figured); had brothers and sisters, (parents
                    living in 1872); d. March 24, 1872, near New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind., cause, consumption.
            
               Carter, Aura (Anna?) Laura—b. Sept. 9, 1867; dau. of William and Martha
                    Carter; (5 brothers and 1 sister living in 1881, another 
                    brother, Francis William Carter, d. about 1858, aged 16 months); d. Sept. 7, 1881, cause, typhoid
                    fever.
            
               Carter, Emily—b. 1833 in 
                        England
                    ; m. Charles Carter, 1852; they joined Mill Creek Baptist Church, 1854; d. March 23,
                    1886, cause paralysis.
            
               Carter, Francis William—b. about 1856 (figured); s. of William and
                    Martha Carter; d. about 1858 (figured), aged 16 months; see above Carter, Aura Laura.
            
               Carter, Laura E. (Martin)—b. Dec. 14, 1855; dau. of Merrit and Julia
                    Martin; m. James Carter; had one child; (her infant sister, Olive Martin, b. Feb. 7, 1876; d. Feb.
                    22, 1876, 2 other sisters d. before 1875); joined Mill Creek Baptist Church, 1868; d. Oct. 24, 1875.
            
               Carter—See also Hunter, Lizzie (Carter).
            
               Cavet(t), Jesse—b. June 5, 1819; m. Elizabeth Cook, Sept. 21, 1849; they
                    had 9 children (2 of whom died in infancy); joined the Bethany Baptist Church, 1868; d. Dec. 26,
                    1873, cause, pleurisy and pneumonia; survived by his wife.
            
               Chambers, Rosella Ann—b. Sept. 25, 1864; dau. of James and Nancy
                    Chambers; had brothers and sisters; joined the Bethany Baptist Church in 1879; d. June 8, 1885;
                    survived by her parents; buried in Bethany Churchyard.
            
               Chasteen, James—b. Aug. 7, 1818; m. Elizabeth Rob (b) ins, April 28,
                    1842; had 9 children (7 living in 1889); joined Bethany Baptist Church in his youth; later dismissed
                    from it; d. June 7, 1889.
            
               Chitwood, Rosie L.—b. July 21, 1874; dau. of Oliver and Liew Chitwood;
                    d. Oct. 15, 1888; buried in Bethany Cemetery. "Her life has been one of great affliction,
                    so that she had not the privilege of going to school, but was taught by her parents at
                    home."
            
               Clark, Rebecca (Perkiser)—b. about 1817 (figured); dau. of Christopher
                    Perkiser; m. Deacon Ephraim Clark who d. about 1866; (a son, Stephen Clark, d. in Civil War, another
                    son, Dr. Columbus Clark, d. Sept., 1876); joined Mill Creek Baptist Church in 1849; d. Nov. 6, 1876;
                    survived by children, brothers, and sisters.
            
               Colglazier, David Matthew—b. about 1879 (figured); s. of Peter and Mary
                    Colglazier; had a sister, Susan Mathilda Colglazier; d. April 7, 1883.
            
               Colglazier, Jane (Ratliff)—m. Oscar Colglazier Dec. 17, 1879; had one
                    child; d. shortly after Oct. 13, 1881; buried in same grave with husband.
            
               Colglazier, Oscar—b. Aug. 27, 1858; m. Jane Ratliff (see above); joined
                    Mill Creek Baptist Church, 1877; d. Oct. 13, 1881.
            
               Colglazier, Susan Mathilda—b. Aug., 1864 (figured); dau. of Peter and
                    Mary Colglazier, and sister of David Matthew Colglazier; d. Oct. 24, 1865, in 
                        Illinois
                    .
            
               Collier, Kesiah (Depaw)—b. about 1800 (figured); dau. of Charles Depaw,
                    who took her from 
                        Kentucky
                     to 
                        Louisiana
                     "when she was quite a child"; her father d. soon afterwards and she
                    "lived among strangers" until she was 20; her brother, Charles Depaw, then brought
                    her, on horseback, "through the Indian nation to this country"; she was a member,
                    successively, of the Mill Creek, 
                        Salem
                    , and Lost River Baptist  churches; m. Zachariah
                    Collier, June, 1823 (he was living in 1866); d. March 6, 1866, cause, heart disease of eight
                    years' duration.
            
               Cook—See Cavet(t), Jesse.
            
               Cosart, Rebecca—b. about 1817; m.—Cosart; had children;
                    member of a Baptist Church for about 30 yr.; d. before Feb. 20, 1886, probably in Scott Co., Ind.
            
               Cosby, Elizabeth Jane (Nay)—b. April 17, 1825; dau. of D. Bennett Nay;
                    m. Thomas Cosby, May 7, 1843; (he d. Dec. 1868 [figured]); had 8 children, 2 of whom d. before 1873;
                    joined Baptist Church at "L. B." about 1840; d. July 26, 1873; buried beside her
                    husband.
            
               Crabs, Elder Jacob B.—b. about 1801 (figured) in Pa.;
                    had 1 son and 2 dau.; emigrated to 
                        Washington
                    , Davis Co. when a boy; joined Baptist Church, 1829, ordained, 1831; moved to 
                        Washington
                     Co., near 
                        Salem
                    , 1835; pastor of 
                        Salem
                    , Mill Creek, and Lost River churches, organized and became pastor of 
                        Charlestown
                     Baptist Church in Clark Co., for many yrs. moderator of Bethel Association, which he
                    helped organize in 1837, agent for General Association of Ind. for 2 yrs., life member of American
                    Baptist Missionary Union and of American Bible Union, preached for a short time for the Christian
                    Commission at 
                        Nashville
                    , Tenn.; during Civil War, supported the Union; d. Nov. 18, 1865, in Campbellsburgh, 
                        Washington
                     Co., Ind., cause, flux and typhus; survived by his wife.
            
               Crim—See Montgomery, Deacon William.
            
               Cummins, Joshua—b. Sept. 29, 1809; m. Mahala Swope, Aug. 6, 1829; lived
                    in Scott Co., Ind.; had 8 children (5 d. before 1885, 3 dau. living in 1885, Angeline Sutton, Mahala
                    J. Hobbs, and Lizzie Alsup); joined Baptist Church, 1839, one of organizers of Bethel Baptist Church
                    of Scott Co., Ind., 1856; d. March 17, 1885.
            
               Cummins, Mahala—b. June 2, 1808, in Va.; m. Joshua Cummins (see above),
                    Aug. 6, 1829; had 8 children; with her husband joined a Baptist Church in Henry Co., Ind., 1839;
                    both joined the Bethel Baptist Church, 1856; d. April 4, 1883, probably in Scott Co., Ind.
            
               Denny—See Standiford, Elizabeth (Littell).
            
               Depaw—See Collier, Kesiah (Depaw).
            
               Drake—See Baker, William.
            
               Dunica, Lizzie—b. Dec. 14, 1862; dau. of John and Margaret Dunica; had 3
                    brothers, and one sister; joined the Coffee Creek Baptist Church, 1884; d. Feb. 16, 1889, in
                    Jefferson Co., Ind.
            
               Fulse, Mary (Wright)—b. March 19, 1816, 4 mi. E. of 
                        Salem
                    , 
                        Washington
                     Co., Ind.; dau. of Levi and Sarah Wright; (father came to Ind. from N.C., 1811); m.
                    George Fulse (or Fultz), in July, 1857; d. June 30, 1890; buried in Wright family burying ground on
                    farm where she was born; (father also buried there).
            
               Gudgel, Harvey—b. April 23, 1823; m. Aug. 7, 1844; (William Gudgel,
                    eldest s. d. in June, 1879, Andrew J. Gudgel, 2d s. d. May 22, 1885); joined Carmel Methodist Church
                    about 1865; d. Nov. 26, 1885, cause, bronchitis; survived by wife, 1 son, and 2 dau.; buried beside
                    2 s., William and Andrew J. Gudgel.
            
               Haines—See Ragsby, Martha Jane.
            
            
               
                  
                            Hamilton
                        , Ninnian—b. Feb. 19, 1787, in Lincoln Co., N.C.; joined Methodist
                    Church about 1812, changed to Baptist faith about 1824, member of Hebron Baptist Church in 1882; m.
                    (1) Mary M. Willyoung, Aug. 24, 1824 (she d. May 15, 1853), m. (2) Mrs. Presilla Newland, April 15,
                    1855 (she was living in 1882); had 8 children (3 living in 1882, 1 a dau.); came to 
                        Washington
                     Co., in 1830; d. Jan. 31, 1882, in 
                        Washington
                     Co., Ind.
            
               Harrod—See Mitchell, Anna (Harrod).
            
               Hawn, Sarah (Thompson)—b. Aug. 8, 1826; dau. of Robert and Elizabeth
                    Thompson; m. C. W. Hawn, Jan. 11, 1863; joined New 
                        Philadelphia
                    Baptist Church in 1844, when m. joined Bethany Baptist Church of which her husband was a
                    member; d. Dec. 20, 1889.
            
               Hebberd, Theodocia A. (Watts)—b. July 2, 1857; dau. of David and Jane
                    Watts; m. James Hebberd (or Hubbard), Sept. 13, 1882; joined Mill Creek Baptist Church in 1878; d.
                    Oct. 10, 1883.
            
               Hobbs—See Cummins, Joshua.
            
               House, Amanda—b. Sept. 10, 1830; m. John House, March 16, 1866 (he was
                    living in 1884); they joined New 
                        Philadelphia
                    Baptist Church in 1870; d. June 19, 1884, probably in New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind.
            
               Hunter, Lizzie (Carter)—b. March 13, 1848 (figured); dau. of Sandford
                    and Lorinda Carter; m. John Hunter; joined Mill Creek Baptist Church in 1864, later transferred to
                    Livonia Baptist Church; d. Dec. 22, 1873, in Livonia, Ind.; survived by husband.
            
               Huston, Samaria (Tucker)—b. Oct. 3, 1860; dau. of Absalom and Eliza J.
                    Tucker; m. Virgil Huston, Oct. 17, 1878; had 2 children (both d. in infancy); joined New 
                        Philadelphia
                    Baptist Church in 1881; d. June 7, 1885.
            
               Jones—See Rodman, Sarah (Jones).
            
               Killey—See Trowbridge, Martha Elizabeth.
            
               Kishler, Mary Ann—b. March 31, 1859 (figured); dau. of William and
                    Elizabeth Kishler; had brothers and sisters; d. April 4, 1873, cause, typhoid fever.
            
               Leather[man], Frederick—b. Nov. —, 1812; m. (1) Priscilla
                    Payne, dau. of Jeremiah and Sally Payne, (2) Mrs. Isabell Newland, Jan. 1, 1862; had 6 dau. of first
                    marriage (3 living in 1887), 3 sons and 4 dau. of second marriage (1 dau. d. in 1875); joined
                    Baptist Church in 1848; d. Oct. 14, 1887.
            
               Leatherman, Isabell Jane—b. in 1863 (figured); dau. of Frederick and
                    Isabell Leatherman; had a sister Lucinda; in last illness cared for by her mother and Lizzie
                    Tatleck; d. Sept. 22, 1875, cause, flux and typhoid fever.
            
               Littell—See Standiford, Elizabeth (Littell).
            
               McColloug (h), James Y.—b. Oct. 13, 1811; "He was raised up in
                    the Reformed Presbyterian Church" but became a Baptist; d. Aug. 20, 1883.
            
               McKinley, Hattie—dau. of A. and Lorinda McKinley; d. Feb. 25,
                    —, aged 12 yrs. and 6 days.
            
               McKnight, William A.—b. April 22, 1859 (figured); an only child; d. May
                    28, 1879, cause, consumption.
            
               Malott, Julia Ann (Teague)—b. in 1828, in Martin Co., Ind.; m.  Hiram R. Malott, "her present husband," in
                    1847; had 10 children (8 living in 1875); joined Baptist Church in 1842; d. Oct. 9, 1875.
            
               Marshall, Asa—"In the prime of live and vigorous health
                    … he was … stricken down without a moment's warning." He was
                    married and had young children.
            
               Martin, Malissa A.—b. Dec. 18, 1859; dau. of Merit and Julia Martin; had
                    sisters and a brother; joined Mill Creek Baptist Church in 1876; d. Aug. 23, 1877.
            
               Martin, Olive—b. Feb. 7, 1876; dau. of Merit and Julia Martin; d. Feb.
                    22, 1876.
            
               Martin, William—b. in 1813 (figured); at age of 9 lost sight after an
                    attack of scarlet fever; supported himself by putting bottoms in chairs, making baskets, and
                    platting hats; joined Mill Creek Baptist Church in 1833; d. March 9, 1876, at home of his brother,
                    Hites Martin, who lived in 
                        Washington
                     Co., Ind., cause, pneumonia; "He could by head solve the most difficult
                    problems in arithmetic and mathematics, could cite chapter and verse in the Bible."
            
               Martin—See Carter, Laura E. (Martin)
            
               Mitchell, Anna (Harrod)—b. Nov. 4, 1805, near 
                        Charlestown
                    , Clark Co., Ind.; dau. of William Harrod; m. William Mitchell, Feb. 27, 1823 (he was
                    living in 1879); had 3 s. and 3 dau., all survived her, 2 s., Thomas and Harrison, returned from
                    "the far west" for a last visit; joined Mill Creek Baptist Church in 1838; d.
                    April 20, 1879, in 
                        Washington
                     Co., Ind., cause, pneumonia.
            
               Mitchell, William—b. Oct. 3, 1800 (figured), in 
                        Shelby
                     Co., Ky.; came to Ind. in 1816; m. Anna Harrod (see above), Feb. 27, 1823; joined
                    Baptist Church at 
                        Salem
                    , Ind. in 1842, and shortly afterward transferred to Mill Creek Church; d. April 29,
                    1883, in 
                        Washington
                     Co., Ind., cause, dropsy and pneumonia; survived by 3 s. and 3 dau.
            
               Montgomery, Deacon William—b. Oct. 22, 1803, in 
                        Washington
                     Co., Pa.; father's family moved to Ky. about 1806; m. Polly Crim, April 23,
                    1829, in Ky.; had 3 s. and 1 dau.; moved to Ind. in 1833; member of Elizabeth Baptist Church; d.
                    April 10, 1876, in Jefferson Co., Ind.; wife and children living in 1876.
            
               Morgan, Benjamin—b. Aug. 22, 1829, at Martinsburg, 
                        Washington
                     Co., Ind.; s. of Thomas and Harriet Morgan; m. Margaret Walker, Jan. 14, 1851; had
                    children; joined Blue River Baptist Church about 1856, later transferred to New 
                        Philadelphia
                    Baptist Church; was afflicted by "spasms for 27 years"; d. Jan. 21,
                    1881, cause, "falling in the water."
            
               Morgan, Charles—b. Oct. 3, 1862; s. of Benjamin and Margaret Morgan, 1
                    of 12 children (2 of whom d. before 1862); was oldest s. at home and main support of family; d. Jan.
                    7, 1886.
            
               Morgan, Thomas A.—b. Aug. 25, 1805; m. Harriet Buckman, Sept. 26, 1827;
                    had 9 children; d. June 9, 1881; wife and 4 children living in 1881.
            
               Morgan—See Nicholes, Harriet (Morgan).
            
               Naugle, Henry—b. about 1811 (figured) in Va.; m. about 1836; resided in
                    Ind. for 40 yrs.; joined Blue River Baptist Church about  1851 and transferred to New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind., Baptist Church about 1872; d. Feb. 7, 1873; wife living in 1873.
            
               Nay—See Cosby, Elizabeth Jane (Nay).
            
               Newland—See Hamilton, Ninnian and Leatherman, Frederick.
            
               Nicholes, Harriet (Morgan)—b. Sept. 30, 1857 (figured); dau. of Benjamin
                    and Margaret Morgan; m. Leo Nicholes; had 2 children (1 d. about 1877, the 2d., a newborn infant, d.
                    between Dec. 5 and 13, 1879); joined Baptist Church in Livonia, Ind., in 1874, later transferred to
                    New 
                        Philadelphia
                    Baptist Church; d. Dec. 13, 1879, in New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind., cause, complications following childbirth.
            
               Nuckles, Charles—b. March 3, 1798, in Va.; came to Ind. in 1815; m.
                    Catherine Brewer in 1818 (she was b. in 1795 in Pa. and d. Sept. 1, 1876, the last survivor of her
                    father's family of 8 children); had 10 children (2 d. in infancy); d. Oct. 15, 1877; 8
                    children, 5 brothers, 1 sister, 18 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren living in 1877.
            
               Pain or Payne—See Leatherman, Frederick.
            
               Perkiser—See Clark, Rebecca (Perkiser).
            
               Philips, Robert—b. in 1806 (figured) in 
                        England
                    ; lived in Ind. about 40 yrs.; joined Lost River Baptist Church in 1845, soon
                    transferred to Mill Creek Baptist Church; d. April 10, 1873; survived by wife, children, and
                    grandchildren; buried in Mill Creek graveyard.
            
               Ragsby (Rigsby), Martha Jane ("Mattie")—b. about 1845;
                    dau. of Col. J. L. and Cynthia Rigsby (father d. before 1873, mother was living then); had a
                    brother, a sister Haines, and at least 1 other sister; member of New Bethel Baptist Church; d. Jan.
                    27, 1873, in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Ind., buried in 
                        Lexington
                     (Ind?).
            
               Ratliff—See Colglazier, Oscar.
            
               Ray, Mary (Robison)—b. March 20, 1790; m. William C. Ray, Jan. 27, 1820
                    (he died June 11, 1833); she was "for a long time a resdt. of Clark Co., Ind.";
                    member of a Presbyterian church until 1833 when she joined Zoar Baptist Church, which later merged
                    with Elizabeth Baptist Church; d. Aug. 16, 1876; had children and grandchildren living in 1876.
            
               Redman, Alonzo—s. of William and Sarilda Redman; had brothers, Tilden H.
                    and Burley Hanible Redman, q. v.; was living in 1886.
            
               Redman, Burley Hanible—b. about 1884; s. of William and Sarilda Redman,
                    of Scott Co., Ind.; d. aged 10 months.
            
               Redman, Tilden H.—b. July 13, 1876; s. of William and Sarilda Redman, of
                    Scott Co., Ind.; d. March 16, 1886, cause, erysipelas.
            
               Richardson, Catherine—b. Dec. 10, 1817; m. Richard Richardson, March 19,
                    1835, who d. in 1857 (figured); had 11 children (6 living in 1876); member of Mill Creek Baptist
                    Church; d. Feb. 23, 1876 (figured), in 
                        Washington
                     Co., Ind.
            
               Richardson—See Rippey, M. Newton.
            
               Rings—See Swope, Michael.
            
               Rippey, Mr. Newton—b. July 24, 1840; m. Jane Richardson, Oct. 23, 1862;
                    4 children living in 1889; joined Mill Creek Baptist Church in 1878; d. Feb. 19, 1889.
            
               Rob(b)ins—See Chasteen, James.
            
               Robison—See Ray, Mary (Robison).
            
            
               Rodman, Albert—b. Dec. 2, 1875 (figured); s. of James and Martha I. (or
                    J.) Rodman; (sister, Edna Rodman d. in 1868); d. suddenly Aug. 22, 1878.
            
               Rodman, Edna—See above.
            
               Rodman, John H.—b. Oct. 5, 1860, in Collin Co., Tex.; s. of William I.
                    and Jane Rodman; had an uncle 
                        Jasper
                    ; member of New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind., Baptist Church; d. Sept. 15, 1876.
            
               Rodman, John H.—b. July 29, 1850; s. of Capt. J. Rodman; had a sister;
                    joined New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind., Baptist Church in 1872; d. June 6, 1875, in 
                        Washington
                     Co., Ind., cause, heart disease.
            
               Rodman, Lucinda—b. July 7, 1815; joined New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind., Baptist Church in 1861; d. Feb. 2, 1872; buried in same grave with husband,
                    Walker B. Rodman, whom she survived only 34 hours.
            
               Rodman, Sarah (Jones)—b. in 1825; dau. of Cadwalader Jones and the wife
                    of Capt. 
                        Jasper
                     Rodman; d. Feb. —, 1872, in 
                        Washington
                     Co., Ind.; had children living in 1872.
            
               Rodman, Walker B.—b. Oct. 26, 1810; d. Jan. 31, 1872, cause, pneumonia;
                    buried with his wife, Lucinda, in same grave, 
                        Franklin
                     Burying Ground, 
                        Washington
                     Co., Ind.
            
               Shaw—See Whitson, Mary Appleby (Shaw).
            
               Sickles, Sarah Amda—dau. of Columbus and Nancy Sickles; she had a
                    sister; d. aged 16 yrs., cause, typhoid fever.
            
               Soladay, Elizabeth—b. about 1812; mother of 2 s. (1 living in 1875, 1
                    killed in Civil War); member of 
                        Salem
                    , Ind., Baptist Church for 35 yrs; d. May 23, 1875.
            
               Stalker, Eli—b. Jan. 27, 1798, in N.C.; m. Parthena Caress, Feb. 9,
                    1826; had 7 s. and 4 dau.; lived in same neighborhood 56 yrs.; joined 
                        Salem
                     Baptist Church in 1835; last 3 yrs. of life confined to his room; d. Sept. 14, 1881,
                    probably in 
                        Salem
                    , Ind., wife and 8 children living in 1881.
            
               Standiford, Elizabeth (Littell)—b. June 24, 1823; dau. of Amos and Lydia
                    Littell; m. Aquilla Standiford, who was living in 1877; had 8 children, all living in 1877; had an
                    older sister, Mrs. Ozima (or Ozena) Denny; member of Baptist Church for 36 yrs.; d. Feb. 13, 1877,
                    in New 
                        Providence
                     (now Borden), Ind., cause, hemorrhage of the lungs. See William H. McCoy, Notes on the McCoy Family (Rutland, Vt., 1939), 10, 13.
            
               Star—See Trowbridge, Louisa M. (Star).
            
               Stormes—See Bridgewater, Samuel.
            
               Sutton—See Cummins, Joshua.
            
               Swope, Michael—b. May 8, 1794, in 
                        Baltimore
                    , Md.; father moved to Ky. in 1804, on Dick's (Dix) River, later moved to 
                        Spencer
                     Co., Ky.; m. Jane Rings (or Kings), Dec. 23, 1813, in 
                        Spencer
                     Co. (Ky. or Ind.?); (she d. Aug. 5, 1865 [figured]); had 4 s. and 4 dau. (all lived to
                    maturity, only 6 living in 1878); with wife joined Baptist Church of 
                        Vienna
                    , Ind., in 1843; d. Aug. 5, 1878 (figured).
            
               Swope—See also Cummins, Joshua.
            
               Tutleck—See Leatherman, Isabell Jane.
            
               Teague—See Malott, Julia Ann (Tatleck).
            
               Thompson—See Hawn, Sarah (Thompson).
            
            
               Trowbridge, Daily Oscar—b. Jan. 10, 1889 (figured); s. of C. H. and
                    Martha Elizabeth Trowbridge.
            
               Trowbridge, Louisa M. (Star)—b. Aug. 25, 1841, in Ky.; dau. of Thomas
                    Star, who moved to Ind. about 1850; joined 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                     Baptist Church in 1857; m. Newton C. Trowbridge, March 22, 1866; had 7 children; d.
                    Oct. 11, 1890; husband and 3 children living in 1890.
            
               Trowbridge, Martha Elizabeth (Killey)—b. Sept. 21, 1863; dau. of Levi
                    and Sarah E. Killey (possibly Kilby or Kelley); joined 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                     Baptist Church in 1878; m. C. H. Trowbridge; had 1 s., Daily Oscar Trowbridge; d. Jan.
                    17, 1889 at 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                    , Ind., cause, complications following childbirth, survived by s.
            
               Trowbridge—See Baker, Anna (Trowbridge).
            
               Tucker, Eddie—b. in 1857 (figured); s. of Absalom and Eliza Jane Tucker;
                    had brothers and sisters; d. Aug. 28, 1874, in New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind., cause, "soreness of the breast accompanied by malignant
                    fever."
            
               Tucker, Jesse Coffin—b. Oct. 31, 1862; s. of Absalom and Eliza Jane
                    Tucker; had brothers and sisters; d. Dec. 16, 1884, cause, "pulmonary trouble,"
                    had been sick for 7 weeks in Tekamah, Neb., where he was cared for by relations and for 16 weeks at
                    home.
            
               Tucker—See Huston, Samaria (Tucker).
            
               Turner—See Anderson, Margaret (Turner).
            
               Walker—See Morgan, Benjamin.
            
               Wallace, James F.—b. Oct. 11, 1849; d. Oct. 10, 1883; father living in
                    1883.
            
               Watts—See Hebberd, Theodocia A. (Watts).
            
               Whitson, Mary Appleby (Shaw)—b. July 21, 1806, in 
                        New Port
                     [sic.], R.I.; dau. of Benaniwell Shaw; came to Clark Co., Ind., with
                    her parents, 3 brothers, and 4 sisters in Jan. 1818; joined Presbyterian church, 
                        Salem
                    , Ind., 1826; her husband d. about 1870; (her oldest and youngest children died
                    "many years ago," 1 dau. named Katherine); d. Aug. 25, 1873, near New 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Ind.; (5 children and 2 step-children were living in 1873).
            
               Willyoung—See 
                        Hamilton
                    , Ninnian.
            
               Wright—See Fulse, Mary (Wright).
         
         
         
            BIBLE RECORD OF THE JOHN MILLER FAMILY
            J. SMITH MILLER
            "John Miller and Jane his Wife was Married May 28th in the year 1789"
            John Miller—b. Jan. 15, 1759; d. Feb. 10, 1822.
            Jane Miller—b. Jan. 18, 1772; d. Oct. 6, 1848.
            
                    Children of John and Jane Miller:
                
            Martha—b. April 14, 1790; d. Jan. 26, 1849; m. — Woods.
            Margaret—b. Jan. 29, 1793; d. Sept. 2, 1846; m. John Winchester, Oct. 13, 1812; children:
                    (1) Lidia (Lydia), b. July 17, 1815; d. Nov. 16, 1817; (2) Jane, b. Feb. 10, 1817; (3) John Smith,
                    b. Jan. 26, 1819; (4) Martha, b. Jan. 13, 1821; (5) 
                        Washington
                    , b. Jan. 30, 1823.
            John Smith—b. Jan. 24, 1796; d. Aug. 15, 1833; m. Getty Denslow, March 20, 1823. See Hugh
                    Th. Miller, "Chapman Denslow and His Family," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, XXXVI (1940) 356–57.
            Jane Black—b. Sept. 24, 1798.
            James Neal—b. Dec. 7, 1799; d. Jan. 20, 1867; m. Sarah Woods, April 4, 1826 (she was b.
                    Nov. 15, 1801; d. May 25, 1878); children: Joseph W., b. July 10, 1827; d. Dec. 22, 1887; m.
                    Elizabeth Walton, Oct. 9, 1851.
            Jonathan—b. Aug. 13, 1801; m. Sept. 7, 1825.
            Mary Ann—b. April 2, 1803; d. June 3, 1867; m. Serrill Winchester, Dec. 9, 1825.
            William Smiley—b. Feb. 16, 1805; m. Rhoda Thomas, Nov. 3, 1831.
            Polly Pinkney—b. June 15, 1807; d. Feb. 11, 1810.
            Nancy—b. Aug. 17, 1808; d. Feb. 15, 1810.
            Uriah Robertson—b. June 8, 1810; d. Oct. 15, 1829 (or 1828).
            Minerva—b. Feb. 7, 1812.
            Melissa—b. Nov. 5, 1813.
            
               
                        Washington
                    —b. June 28, 1815.
            "William S. Miller and Rhoda Thomas was marriaed [sic] November the 3d in
                    the year of our Lord 1831"
            Rhoda Thomas—b. March 29, 1809.
            
                    Children of William S. and Rhoda Miller:
                
            Marcenia—b. Feb. 9, 1832.
            Elisabeth Jane—b. Sept. 23, 1833.
            James Hervey—b. June 23, 1835; d. Oct. 12, 1835.
            Henry Harrison—b. Aug. 4, 1836; d. Aug. 25, 1838.
            Martha Ann—b. June 13, 1838.
            William Clinton Thompson—b. Aug. 25, 1840.
            Mary Melvina—b. Feb. 12, 1843.
            Elias Smith—b. March 15, 1846.
            Olive Florence—b. Dec. 17, 1848.
            Emma Frances—b. July 10, 1850.
         
      
      
         
      
   
